H:\aar\Interwoven-NRPortbI'DCCiAAR\9426502_i
                                          doex-5/02/2016
ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions for treating Gaucher disease are described.

        COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATING GAUCHER DISEASE
     This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>, the
     entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims priority to U.S. Serial No. 61/229,195, filed on July 28,
    2009, U.S. Serial No. 61/303,044, filed on February 10, 2010, U.S. Serial No.
    61/317,513, filed on March 25, 2010, U.S. Serial No. 61/333,372, filed on May 11, 2010,
  5 and U.S. Serial No. 61/359,338, filed on June 28, 2010. The contents of the
    aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
            Gaucher disease is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder
 10 characterized by a deficiency in the lysosomal enzyme, glucocerebrosidase (GCB). GCB
    hydrolyzes the glycolipid glucocerebroside that is formed after degradation of
    glycosphingolipids in the membranes of white blood cells and red blood cells. The
    deficiency in this enzyme causes glucocerebroside to accumulate in large quantities in the
    lysosomes of phagocytic cells located in the liver, spleen and bone marrow of Gaucher
 15 patients. Accumulation of these molecules causes a range of clinical manifestations
    including splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, skeletal disorder, thrombocytopenia and anemia.
    (Beutler et al. Gaucher disease; In: The Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited
    Disease (McGraw-Hill, Inc, New York, 1995) pp.2625-2639)
            Treatments for patients suffering from this disease include administration of
20  analgesics for relief of bone pain, blood and platelet transfusions and, in some cases,
    splenectomy. Joint replacement is sometimes necessary for patients who experience bone
    erosion.
            Enzyme replacement therapy with GCB has been used as a treatment for Gaucher
    disease. Current treatment of patients with Gaucher disease includes administration of a
25  carbohydrate remodeled GCB derived from human placenta or Chinese hamster ovary
    (CHO) cells transfected with a GCB expression construct and known as alglucerase or
    imiglucerase, respectively.

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
                                             SUMMARY
             The disclosure is based, in part, on the discovery that velaglucerase elicits less of
    an immune response (e.g., less production of antibody, e.g., less production of
    neutralizing antibody) than imiglucerase upon administration to a subject (e.g., a subject
  5 with Gaucher disease). The invention relates, inter alia, to compositions and methods for
    selecting a treatment for a subject with Gaucher disease, selecting subjects for treatment
    with velaglucerase (e.g., alone or in combination with another therapy), methods for
    reducing injection site reaction in subjects undergoing treatment for Gaucher disease, and
    methods of treating Gaucher disease. The invention also relates, inter alia, to methods of
 10 determining antibody production, e.g., neutralizing antibody production, in a subject
    being treated for Gaucher disease.
             In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of treating a subject with
    Gaucher disease (e.g., type I Gaucher disease), the method comprising
 15          administering a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    velaglucerase, imiglucerase, or uplyso) by intravenous infusion to the subject over a
    period of less than 2 hours, e.g., 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60 minutes, 50
    minutes or 45 minutes, to thereby treat the subject.
             In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
 ?0 velaglucerase, imiglucerase, uplyso) is administered more than once and each additional
    dose of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase,
    imiglucerase, or uplyso) is administered by intravenous administration over a period of
    less than 2 hours, e.g., 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60 minutes, 50 minutes or 45
    minutes), to the subject.
25           In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    velaglucerase, imiglucerase, uplyso) is administered at a dose of 15 to 60 U/kg (e.g., 30
    U/kg to 60 U/kg, e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg), at a dose equal to or below
    22.5 U/kg, at a dose between 22.5 and 37.5 U/kg, at a dose between 37.5 and 52.5 U/kg,
    or at a dose equal to or above 52.5 U/kg. In some embodiments, glucocerebrosidase
30  enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase, uplyso) is administered at
    a dose of 2.5 U/kg to 60 U/kg. In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
                                                    2

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase, uplyso) is administered every
    other week. In other embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy
    (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase, uplyso) is administered every week. In some
    embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered three times a week by intravenous
  5 infusion, e.g., at a dose of 2.5 U/kg.
             In some embodiments, the infusion of one or more dose (e.g., a dose described
    herein) occurs over 60 minutes.
             In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy is
    velaglucerase and the method includes:
 I0          reconstituting lyophilized velaglucerase with a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier such as Sterile Water for Injection (e.g., reconstituting a 200 unit vial with 2.2 mL
    of Sterile Water for Injection or a 400 unit vial with 4.3 mL Sterile Water for Injection),
    thereby forming a solution, e.g., wherein the vial is not shaken after addition of the Sterile
    Water for Injection; optionally, inspecting the solution in the vials (and, e.g., optionally
 15 determining if the solution is discolored or if particulate matter is present, and optionally
    deciding not to use the solution if the solution is discolored or if particulate matter is
    present);
             withdrawing a volume of solution to provide a pre-selected dose (e.g., a dose
    described herein such as 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg);
 ?o          diluting the volume, e.g., in 1OOmL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution suitable for
    intravenous administration, thereby forming a diluted solution; optionally rocking the
    diluted solution gently, but do not shaking the diluted solution; and
             administering the diluted solution to the subject by intravenous infusion, e.g.,
    wherein the diluted solution is administered over one hour or at a rate of 1 U/kg/minute.
25           In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy is
    administered at an infusion rate of 2 U/kg/minute, 1.5 U/kg/minute, 1 U/kg/minute, or 0.5
    U/kg/minute.
             In some embodiments, the administering comprises home therapy (e.g., in the
    subject's home, workplace, or other non-clinical (e.g., non-hospital) setting). In some
30  embodiments, the administering (e.g., via infusion) is by a health care professional (e.g.,
    nurse or physician's assistant). For example, if the subject has not experienced an
                                                    3

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    adverse event (AE) (e.g., a drug-related serious AE or an infusion-related AE, e.g., an
    event described herein), e.g., after one, two, or three administrations (e.g., via infusion) of
    the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy, the subject is eligible to receive
    home therapy for subsequent administrations.
  5
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for identifying a subject as
    suitable for (e.g., being a candidate for) treatment with glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase). The method includes evaluating (e.g.,
    measuring, e.g., by a method described herein such as ELISA or
 10 radioimmunoprecipitation assay (RIP)), for the presence of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing
    antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., to the therapy currently being administered to the subject)
    (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) in a sample from the subject, e.g., and comparing the
    measured value of antibody to the therapy to a standard (e.g., a negative control). For
 15 example, if the subject has measured antibody values that are greater than the value
    measured for the negative control (e.g., a negative control in an ELISA), the subject is
    identified as having antibodies to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
    The subject is optionally identified as suitable for treatment with an alternative Gaucher
    disease treatment (e.g., treatment with velaglucerase), e.g., if the measured value is
 ?o greater than the value for the standard, e.g., by more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%,
    30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%.
             In some embodiments, the sample is a blood or serum sample. In some
    embodiments, the sample has been modified. For example, the measured antibody values
    were obtained by contacting the sample with an analytical reagent, e.g., a labeled reagent
25  (e.g., labeled glucocerebrosidase), and/or a substrate or cell, e.g., a substrate or cell that
    binds to an antibody to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. In some
    embodiments, the measured antibody values were obtained from a sample that has been
    enriched for antibodies, e.g., a concentrated portion of a blood or serum sample. In some
    embodiments, the evaluation was obtained by a method described herein.
30           In some embodiments, the method includes measuring the measured antibody
    value, e.g., by a method described herein.
                                                    4

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for selecting a subject with
    Gaucher disease for treatment with a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
    Optionally, the method includes selecting a subject for such treatment on the basis that
  5 the subject has tested positive for the production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing
    antibodies) to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease. The
    method includes evaluating (e.g., measuring, e.g., by a method described herein such as
    ELISA or radioimmunoprecipitation assay (RIP)) or obtaining an evaluation of the
    presence of antibodies to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., to the
 10 therapy currently being administered to the subject) (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) in a
    sample from the subject, e.g., and comparing the measured value of antibody to the
    therapy to a standard (e.g., a negative control). For example, if the subject has measured
    antibody values that are greater than the value measured for the negative control (e.g.,
    negative control in an ELISA), the subject is identified as having antibodies to the
 15 glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. The methods optionally include,
    selecting an alternative Gaucher disease treatment for the subject (e.g., treatment with
    velaglucerase), e.g., if the measured value is greater than the value for the standard (e.g.,
    negative control), e.g., by more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%,
    50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%.
 ?0          In some embodiments, the sample is a blood or serum sample. In some
    embodiments, the sample has been modified. For example, the measured antibody values
    were obtained by contacting the sample with an analytical reagent, e.g., a labeled reagent
    (e.g., labeled glucocerebrosidase), and/or a substrate or cell, e.g., a substrate or cell that
    binds to an antibody to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. In some
25  embodiments, the measured antibody values were obtained from a sample that has been
    enriched for antibodies, e.g., a concentrated portion of a blood or serum sample. In some
    embodiments, the evaluation was obtained by a method described herein.
             In some embodiments, the method includes measuring the antibody value, e.g., by
    a method described herein.
                                                   5

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
            In some embodiments, the subject tested positive for the production of IgE
    antibodies to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease (e.g.,
    imiglucerase or uplyso).
            In some embodiments, the subject tested positive for the production of IgM
  5 antibodies to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease (e.g.,
    imiglucerase or uplyso).
            In some embodiments, the subject tested positive for the production of IgG and/or
    IgA antibodies to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease (e.g.,
    imiglucerase or uplyso).
 I0
            In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for treating a subject with
    Gaucher disease. The method includes selecting a subject on the basis that the subject
    has tested positive for the production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) to the
    treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease, e.g., by a method described
 15 herein, or on the basis that the subject is at risk for developing antibodies (e.g.,
    neutralizing antibodies) to a treatment for Gaucher disease (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso)
    and administering velaglucerase to the subject.
            In some embodiments, the subject tested positive for the production of IgE
    antibodies to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease (e.g.,
 ?0 imiglucerase or uplyso).
            In some embodiments, the subject tested positive for the production of IgM
    antibodies to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease (e.g.,
    imiglucerase or uplyso).
            In some embodiments, the subject tested positive for the production of IgG and/or
25  IgA antibodies to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease (e.g.,
    imiglucerase or uplyso).
            In some embodiments, velaglucerase is administered at a dose of 15 to 60 U/kg
    (e.g. 30 U/kg to 60 U/kg, e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg), at a dose equal to
    or below 22.5 U/kg, at a dose between 22.5 and 37.5 U/kg, at a dose between 37.5 and
30  52.5 U/kg, or at a dose equal to or above 52.5 U/kg. In some embodiments,
    velaglucerase is administered at a dose of 2.5 U/kg to 60 U/kg. In some embodiments,
                                                     6

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    the velaglucerase is administered every other week by intravenous infusion. In other
    embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered every week by intravenous infusion. In
    some embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered three times a week by intravenous
    infusion, e.g., at a dose of 2.5 U/kg.
  5          In some embodiments, the infusion of the dose (e.g., a dose described herein)
    occurs over less than 2 hours, e.g., 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60 minutes, 50
    minutes or 45 minutes. In preferred embodiments, the infusion of the dose occurs over
    60 minutes.
             In some embodiments, the method includes:
 I0          reconstituting lyophilized velaglucerase with a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier such as a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as Sterile Water for Injection
    (e.g., reconstituting a 200 unit vial with 2.2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection or a 400 unit
    vial with 4.3 mL Sterile Water for Injection), thereby forming a solution, e.g., wherein the
    vial is not shaken after addition of the Sterile Water for Injection; optionally, inspecting
 15 the solution in the vials (and, e.g., optionally determining if the solution is discolored or
    if particulate matter is present, and optionally deciding not to use the solution if the
    solution is discolored or if particulate matter is present);
             withdrawing a volume of solution to provide a pre-selected dose (e.g., a dose
    described herein, e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg);
 ?o          diluting the volume, e.g., in lOOmL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution suitable for
    intravenous administration, thereby forming a diluted solution; optionally rocking the
    diluted solution gently, but do not shaking the diluted solution; and
             administering the diluted solution to the subject by intravenous infusion.
             In some embodiments, velaglucerase is administered at a rate of 2 U/kg/minute,
25  1.5 U/kg/minute, 1 U/kg/minute, or 0.5 U/kg/minute.
             In some embodiments, the administering comprises home therapy (e.g., in the
    subject's home, workplace, or other non-clinical (e.g., non-hospital) setting). In some
    embodiments, the administering (e.g., via infusion) is by a health care professional (e.g.,
    nurse or physician's assistant). For example, if the subject has not experienced an
30  adverse event (AE) (e.g., a drug-related serious AE or an infusion-related AE, e.g., an
    event described herein), e.g., after one, two, or three administrations (e.g., via infusion) of
                                                    7

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    velaglucerase, the subject is eligible to receive home therapy for subsequent
    administrations.
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for identifying a subject as
  5 suitable for (e.g., being a candidate for) treatment with glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase). The method includes evaluating (e.g.,
    measuring) the subject for the presence of infusion site reaction (i.e., infusion-related
    adverse event) (e.g., during or within 12 hours of infusion of glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy) (e.g., to the therapy currently being administered to the subject,
 10 e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso), e.g., and comparing the measured level of the site reaction
    to a standard (e.g., a negative control). For example, if the subject has a measured value
    of site reaction to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease that is
    greater than the value measured for the negative control (e.g., the site reaction observed
    after placebo infusion in the subject), the subject is identified as suitable for treatment
 15 with an alternative Gaucher disease treatment (e.g., treatment with velaglucerase), e.g., if
    the measured value of site reaction to the treatment the subject is currently taking for
    Gaucher disease is greater than the value for the standard, e.g., by more than 5%, 10%,
    15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or
    90%.
 ?0          In some embodiments, the method includes determining the infusion site value,
    e.g., by a method described herein.
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for selecting a subject with
    Gaucher disease for treatment with glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
25  Optionally, the method includes selecting a subject for such treatment on the basis that
    the subject is in need of reduced infusion site reaction (e.g., reduced as compared to the
    reaction associated with or caused by the treatment the subject is currently taking for
    Gaucher disease, e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso). The method includes evaluating (e.g.,
    measuring) or obtaining an evaluation of the subject for the presence of infusion site
30  reaction (i.e., infusion-related adverse event) (e.g., during or within 12 hours of infusion
    of glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy) (e.g., to the therapy currently being
                                                    8

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    administered to the subject, e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso), e.g., and comparing the
    measured level of the site reaction to a standard (e.g., a negative control). For example, if
    the subject has a measured value of site reaction to the treatment the subject is currently
    taking for Gaucher disease that is greater than (e.g., greater by more than 5%, 10%, 15%,
  5 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%)
    the value measured for the negative control (e.g., the site reaction observed after placebo
    infusion in the subject), the subject is selected for an alternative Gaucher disease
    treatment (e.g., treatment with velaglucerase), e.g., if the measured value of site reaction
    to the treatment the subject is currently taking for Gaucher disease is greater than the
 10 value for the standard (e.g., negative control), e.g., by more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%,
    25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%.
             In some embodiments, the method includes measuring the antibody value, e.g., by
    a method described herein.
 15          In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for treating a subject with
    Gaucher disease. The method includes selecting a subject for such treatment on the basis
    that the subject is in need of reduced infusion site reaction (e.g., reduced as compared to
    the reaction associated with or caused by the treatment the subject is currently taking for
    Gaucher disease, e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso), e.g., by a method described herein, and
 ?o administering velaglucerase to the subject.
             In some embodiments, velaglucerase is administered at a dose of 15 to 60 U/kg
    (e.g. 30 U/kg to 60 U/kg, e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg), at a dose equal to
    or below 22.5 U/kg, at a dose between 22.5 and 37.5 U/kg, at a dose between 37.5 and
    52.5 U/kg, or at a dose equal to or above 52.5 U/kg. In some embodiments,
25  velaglucerase is administered at a dose of 2.5 U/kg to 60 U/kg. In some embodiments,
    the velaglucerase is administered every other week by intravenous infusion. In other
    embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered every week by intravenous infusion. In
    some embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered three times a week by intravenous
    infusion, e.g., at a dose of 2.5 U/kg.
                                                    9

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
             In some embodiments, the infusion of the dose (e.g., a dose described herein)
    occurs over less than 2 hours, e.g., 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60 minutes, 50
    minutes or 45 minutes.
             In some embodiments, the method includes:
  5          reconstituting lyophilized velaglucerase with a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier, e.g., Sterile Water for Injection (e.g., reconstituting a 200 unit vial with 2.2 mL of
    Sterile Water for Injection or a 400 unit vial with 4.3 mL Sterile Water for Injection),
    thereby forming a solution, e.g., wherein the vial is not shaken after addition of the Sterile
    Water for Injection; optionally, inspecting the solution in the vials (and, e.g., optionally
 I0 determining if the solution is discolored or if particulate matter is present, and optionally
    deciding not to use the solution if the solution is discolored or if particulate matter is
    present);
             withdrawing a volume of solution to provide a pre-selected dose (e.g., a dose
    described herein such as 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg);
 15          diluting the volume, e.g., in lOOmL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution suitable for
    intravenous administration, thereby forming a diluted solution; optionally rocking the
    diluted solution gently, but do not shaking the diluted solution; and
             administering the diluted solution to the subject by intravenous infusion.
             In some embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered at a rate of 2.0
 ?0 U/kg/minute, 1.5 U/kg/minute, 1.0 U/kg/minute, or 0.5 U/kg/minute.
             In some embodiments, the administering comprises home therapy (e.g., in the
    subject's home, workplace, or other non-clinical (e.g., non-hospital) setting). In some
    embodiments, the administering (e.g., via infusion) is by a health care professional (e.g.,
    nurse or physician's assistant). For example, if the subject has not experienced an
25  adverse event (AE) (e.g., a drug-related serious AE or an infusion-related AE, e.g., an
    event described herein), e.g., after one, two, or three administrations (e.g., via infusion) of
    velaglucerase, the subject is eligible to receive home therapy for subsequent
    administrations.
                                                      10

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
            In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of selecting a subject with
    Gaucher disease (e.g., type I Gaucher disease) for treatment with velaglucerase, the
    method comprising
            identifying a subject with Gaucher disease that has received a glucocerebrosidase
  5 enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) and has a platelet count less
    than a standard; and
            selecting the subject for treatment with velaglucerase on the basis that the subject
    has a platelet count less than the standard.
            In some embodiments, the method includes evaluating (e.g., measuring platelet
 I0 count or obtaining an evaluation of platelet count of a sample from the subject, and
    comparing the measured value of the platelet count to the standard (e.g., negative
    control).
            In some embodiments, the sample is a blood or serum sample. In some
    embodiments, the sample has been modified. In some embodiments, the measured
 15 antibody values were obtained from a sample that has been enriched for platelets, e.g., a
    concentrated portion of a blood sample. In some embodiments, the evaluation was
    obtained by a method described herein.
            In some embodiments, the method includes measuring the platelet count, e.g., by
    a method described herein.
 ?0         In some embodiments, the methods further includes administering velaglucerase
    to the subject, e.g., at a dose and/or dosing schedule described herein.
            In some embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered by intravenous infusion
    over a course of less than 2 hours, e.g., 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60 minutes,
    50 minutes or 45 minutes. In some embodiments, the infusion occurs at a rate of 2
25  U/kg/minute, 1.5 U/kg/minute, 1 U/kg per minute or 0.5 U/kg/minute.
            In some embodiments, the standard is a platelet count below or equal to 80 x 103
    platelets/mm 3 . In some embodiments, the standard is based on the percentage increase in
    mean platelet count after 6, 9, or 12 months of treatment with the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy. For example, a subject in which the mean platelet count
30  increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of
    treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
                                                   11

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) is
    identified for treatment with velaglucerase. As another example, a subject in which the
    mean platelet count increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of
  5 treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) is
    identified for treatment with velaglucerase.
 I0         In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of treating a subject with
    Gaucher disease (e.g., type I Gaucher disease), the method comprising
            selecting a subject with Gaucher disease that has received a glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) and has a platelet count less
    than a standard, e.g., a subject identified by a method described herein; and
 15         administering velaglucerase to the subject.
            In some embodiments, velaglucerase is administered at a dose of 15 to 60 U/kg
    (e.g. 30 U/kg to 60 U/kg, e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg), at a dose equal to
    or below 22.5 U/kg, at a dose between 22.5 and 37.5 U/kg, at a dose between 37.5 and
    52.5 U/kg, or at a dose equal to or above 52.5 U/kg. In some embodiments,
 ?o velaglucerase is administered at a dose of 2.5 U/kg to 60 U/kg. In some embodiments,
    the velaglucerase is administered every other week by intravenous infusion. In other
    embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered every week by intravenous infusion. In
    some embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered three times a week by intravenous
    infusion, e.g., at a dose of 2.5 U/kg.
25          In some embodiments, the infusion of the dose (e.g., a dose described herein)
    occurs over less than 2 hours, e.g., 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60 minutes, 50
    minutes or 45 minutes.
            In some embodiments, the method includes:
            reconstituting lyophilized velaglucerase with a pharmaceutically acceptable
30  carrier such as Sterile Water for Injection (e.g., reconstituting a 200 unit vial with 2.2 mL
    of Sterile Water for Injection or a 400 unit vial with 4.3 mL Sterile Water for Injection),
                                                   12

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    thereby forming a solution, e.g., wherein the vial is not shaken after addition of the Sterile
    Water for Injection; optionally, inspecting the solution in the vials (and, e.g., optionally
    determining if the solution is discolored or if particulate matter is present, and optionally
    deciding not to use the solution if the solution is discolored or if particulate matter is
  5 present);
             withdrawing a volume of solution to provide a pre-selected dose (e.g., a dose
    described herein such as 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg);
             diluting the volume, e.g., in 100mL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution suitable for
    intravenous administration, thereby forming a diluted solution; optionally rocking the
 10 diluted solution gently, but do not shaking the diluted solution; and
             administering the diluted solution to the subject by intravenous infusion.
             In some embodiments, the velaglucerase is administered at a rate of 2
    U/kg/minute, 1.5 U/kg/minute, 1 U/kg/minute or 0.5 U/kg/minute.
             In some embodiments, the administering comprises home therapy (e.g., in the
 15 subject's home, workplace, or other non-clinical (e.g., non-hospital) setting). In some
    embodiments, the administering (e.g., via infusion) is by a health care professional (e.g.,
    nurse or physician's assistant). For example, if the subject has not experienced an
    adverse event (AE) (e.g., a drug-related serious AE or an infusion-related AE, e.g., an
    event described herein), e.g., after one, two, or three administrations (e.g., via infusion) of
 ?0 velaglucerase, the subject is eligible to receive home therapy for subsequent
    administrations.
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for evaluating a subject, e.g., a
    subject to whom a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase,
25  velaglucerase or uplyso) is currently being administered. The method includes evaluating
    (e.g., measuring) or obtaining an evaluation of one or more (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7) of
    the following parameters of the subject:
             hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, liver volume (e.g., as a percentage of
    total body weight), spleen volume (e.g., as a percentage of total body weight), infusion
30  site reaction, a skeletal parameter, or presence of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies)
    (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
                                                   13

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    therapy (e.g., the mean value of one or more (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7) of these
    parameters).
             The skeletal parameter can be, e.g., bone mineral density (BMD) (e.g., as
    measured by a change (e.g., improvement) in Z score). BMD can be evaluated e.g., by
  5 dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Other skeletal parameters that can be
    evaluated include, e.g., T-score (e.g., to determine WHO classification of normal bone,
    osteopenia, and osteoporosis), growth of a subject (e.g., a pediatric subject); skeletal age
    of a subject (e.g., a pediatric subject); and bone marrow burden (BMB) (e.g., in an adult
    subject).
 10          The evaluating can be performed, e.g., about every week, about every two weeks,
    about every three weeks, about every four weeks, about every two months, about every
    three months, about every four months, about every five months, about every six months,
    about every seven months, about every eight months, about every nine months, about
    every ten months, about every eleven months, or about every twelve months during the
 15 course of treatment. The evaluating can also be performed prior to commencing treatment
    (e.g., to establish a baseline value). The evaluating can include comparing the value of
    the parameter from the subject to a standard (e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., a
    negative control), and optionally determining if a difference exists between the value of
    the parameter from the subject and the value from the standard. The standard can be,
 ?o e.g., a value of the parameter measured in a subject with Gaucher disease being treated
    with a different therapy for Gaucher disease (e.g., a treatment described herein), or a
    mean value for a cohort of such subjects (e.g., after the same length of therapy), or the
    baseline value for the subject (or a mean baseline value for a cohort of subjects with
    Gaucher disease) prior to commencing therapy (e.g., prior to commencement of a
25  glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or velaglucerase)).
    For example, a skeletal parameter (e.g., bone mineral density) can be evaluated for long
    term changes, e.g., after 1, 2, 3, 4, or more years of glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso).
             The evaluating can include determining if one or more of the following are
30  present:
                                                    14

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             the difference between one or more of the hemoglobin concentration, platelet
    count, liver volume, spleen volume, or a skeletal parameter
             and that of a standard (for the given parameter) is greater than 5%, 10%, 15%,
    20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or
  5 90%. Alternatively or in addition, the evaluating can include determining if an infusion
    site reaction is present (e.g., during or within 12 hours after infusion) and/or if antibodies
    (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) are
    present.
 10          In some embodiments, the evaluation can be of one or more of hemoglobin
    concentration, platelet count and determining if antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies)
    to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) are
    present. In some embodiments, the evaluation for one or more of these parameters is
    performed on a sample from the subject, e.g., a blood or serum sample. In some
 15 embodiments, the sample has been modified. For example, the values were obtained by
    contacting the sample with an analytical reagent and/or a substrate or cell, e.g., a
    substrate or cell that binds to an antibody to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy. In some embodiments, the values were obtained from a sample that has been
    enriched for, e.g., hemoglobin, platelets and/or antibodies, e.g., a concentrated portion of
 ?0 a blood or serum sample. In some embodiments, the evaluation was obtained by a
    method described herein.
             Based on the determination, a treatment decision can be made for the subject. For
    example, if a subject receiving a treatment for Gaucher disease, such as a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy, e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso, has a value
25  for one or more of the parameters that differs from the value for a standard (e.g., a subject
    with Gaucher disease who is receiving a different therapy (velaglucerase)), a decision can
    be made to transfer the subject currently receiving a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement treatment (e.g., imiglucerase treatment) to a different glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement treatment (e.g., velaglucerase treatment). For example, if antibodies
30  (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to imiglucerase
    are detected in a subject undergoing treatment with imiglucerase, the subject can be
                                                    15

      WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    transferred to treatment with velaglucerase. As another example, if an infusion site
    reaction is detected during or within 12 hours of administration of imiglucerase to a
    subject undergoing treatment with imiglucerase, the subject can be transferred to
    treatment with velaglucerase. As another example, if the mean platelet count in a subject
  5 undergoing treatment with imiglucerase is lower (e.g., 5%, 10%, %, 15%, 20%, 25%,
    30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%
    lower) than the mean platelet count value obtained for a cohort of subjects with Gaucher
    disease treated with velaglucerase for the same duration at the same dose and same
    frequency of treatment administration, the subject can be transferred to velaglucerase
 10 treatment.
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of selecting a treatment for
    administration to a subject with Gaucher disease, the method comprising
             selecting a treatment on the basis that the treatment can increase hemoglobin
 15 concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume,
    decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
    likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or
    uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g.,
    increase bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard,
 ?o e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a
    different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of production of
    antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to
    the treatment. Optionally, the method can include providing the treatment to the subject,
    e.g., wherein providing includes administering the treatment or transferring the treatment
25  to the subject's possession. In some embodiments, the treatment can be administered at a
    dose and/or dosing schedule described herein.
             The method can include evaluating (e.g., measuring) or obtaining an evaluation of
    one or more of these parameters, e.g., by a method described herein.
30           In one aspect, the disclosure provides a method of selecting a treatment for
    administration to a subject in need of an increase in hemoglobin concentration, an
                                                    16

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    increase in platelet level, a decrease in liver volume, a decrease in spleen volume, a
    decreased likelihood of injection site reaction, a change in a skeletal parameter (e.g., an
    increase in bone mineral density), and/or a decreased likelihood of production of
    antibodies to the treatment, the method comprising
  5          selecting a treatment on the basis that the treatment can increase hemoglobin
    concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume,
    decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
    likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment for Gaucher disease) of
    infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g., increase bone mineral density),
 10 and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein,
    e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment for Gaucher
    disease) of production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG
    and/or IgA antibodies) to the treatment. Optionally, the method can include providing
    the treatment to the subject, e.g., wherein providing includes administering the treatment
 15 or transferring the treatment to the subject's possession. In some embodiments, the
    treatment can be administered at a dose and/or dosing schedule described herein.
             The method can include evaluating (e.g., measuring) or obtaining an evaluation of
    one or more of these parameters, e.g., by a method described herein.
 ?0          In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for evaluating a subject, e.g., a
    subject who has been selected to receive treatment with a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso). The method includes
    evaluating (e.g., measuring) one or more (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7) of the following
    parameters of the subject:
25           hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, liver volume (e.g., as a percentage of
    total body weight), spleen volume (e.g., as a percentage of total body weight), infusion
    site reaction, a skeletal parameter, or presence of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies)
    (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy (e.g., the mean value of one or more (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7) of these
30  parameters).
                                                    17

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             The skeletal parameter can be, e.g., bone mineral density (BMD) (e.g., as
    measured by a change (e.g., improvement) in Z score). BMD can be evaluated e.g., by
    dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Other skeletal parameters that can be
    evaluated include, e.g., T-score (e.g., to determine WHO classification of normal bone,
  5 osteopenia, and osteoporosis), growth of a subject (e.g., a pediatric subject); skeletal age
    of a subject (e.g., a pediatric subject); and bone marrow burden (BMB) (e.g., in an adult
    subject).
             The evaluating can include comparing the value of the parameter from the subject
    to a standard (e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., a negative control), and optionally
 I0 determining if a difference exists between the value of the parameter from the subject and
    the value from the standard. The standard can be, e.g., a value of the parameter measured
    in a subject with Gaucher disease being treated with a different therapy for Gaucher
    disease (e.g., a treatment described herein), or a mean value for a cohort of such subjects
    (e.g., after the same length of therapy), or the baseline value for the subject (or a mean
 15 baseline value for a cohort of subjects with Gaucher disease) prior to commencing
    therapy.
             The evaluating can include determining if:
             the difference between one or more of the hemoglobin concentration, platelet
    count, liver volume, spleen volume, or a skeletal parameter(e.g., measured as bone
 ?o mineral density (BMD)) and that of a standard (for the given parameter) is greater than
    5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%,
    75%, 80%, 85%, or 90%.
             In some embodiments, the evaluation can be of one or more of hemoglobin
    concentration, platelet count and determining if antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies)
25  to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) are
    present. In some embodiments, the evaluation for one or more of these parameters is
    performed on a sample from the subject, e.g., a blood or serum sample. In some
    embodiments, the sample has been modified. For example, the values were obtained by
    contacting the sample with an analytical reagent and/or a substrate or cell, e.g., a
30  substrate or cell that binds to an antibody to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy. In some embodiments, the values were obtained from a sample that has been
                                                    18

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    enriched for, e.g., hemoglobin, platelets and/or antibodies, e.g., a concentrated portion of
    a blood or serum sample. In some embodiments, the evaluation was obtained by a
    method described herein.
  5          In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of prescribing a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or
    uplyso), the method comprising:
                     receiving an identifier for the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy, e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade name or generic name of the
 10 glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
                     receiving information that the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy has one or more of the following properties: can increase hemoglobin
    concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume,
    decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
 15 likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or
    uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g.,
    increase in bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard,
    e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a
    different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of production of
 ?o antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to
    the treatment;
                     selecting a subject in need of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy, e.g., on the basis that the subject is in need of one or more of: an increase
    hemoglobin concentration, an increase platelet count, a decrease liver volume, a decrease
25  spleen volume, a decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard
    described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different
    treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction,
    change a skeletal parameter (e.g., increase bone mineral density), and/or decrease
    likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
30  likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or
                                                     19

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
    uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies)
    (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to the treatment; and
                     causing the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy to be
    prescribed, dispensed, or administered to a subject.
  5          In some embodiments, the subject is in need of one or more of an increase in
    hemoglobin concentration, an increase in platelet count and decrease in the likelihood of
    the production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso). In some embodiments, a
    determination that a subject is in need of one or more of these changes is based upon an
 I0 evaluation of one or more of these parameters performed on a sample from the subject,
    e.g., a blood or serum sample. In some embodiments, the sample has been modified. For
    example, the values were obtained by contacting the sample with an analytical reagent
    and/or a substrate or cell, e.g., a substrate or cell that binds to an antibody to the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. In some embodiments, the values were
 15 obtained from a sample that has been enriched for, e.g., hemoglobin, platelets and/or
    antibodies, e.g., a concentrated portion of a blood sample. In some embodiments, the
    evaluation was obtained by a method described herein.
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of providing a recipient with
 ?0 information about, or with guidelines for, the use of a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or velaglucerase), the method comprising:
                     communicating to the recipient an identifier for the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy, e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade name or
    generic name of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
25                   communicating to the recipient information that the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy has one or more of the following properties: can increase
    hemoglobin concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen
    volume, decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein,
    e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g.,
30  imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal
    parameter (e.g., increase bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative
                                                    20

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects
    receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of
    production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA
    antibodies) to the treatment;
  5                  receiving a request from the recipient to purchase the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy; and
                     selling, shipping or transferring the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy to the recipient.
 I0          In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of providing a recipient with
    information about a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase,
    velaglucerase or uplyso), or with guidelines for, the use of a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase or velaglucerase), the method comprising:
                     providing an identifier for the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
 15 therapy, e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade name or generic name of the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
                     providing information that the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy has one or more of the following properties: can increase hemoglobin
    concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume,
 ?o decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
    likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase) for
    Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g., increase
    bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a
    standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a
25  different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase) for Gaucher disease) of production of antibodies
    (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to the
    treatment;
                     memorializing, e.g., in a database, the identifier and the information; and
                     transferring the memorialization (e.g., the memorialized identifier and
30  information) to the recipient.
                                                    21

      WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of providing a recipient with
    information about a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase,
    velaglucerase or uplyso), or with guidelines for the use of a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso), the method
  5 comprising:
                     providing an identifier for the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy, e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade name or generic name of the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
                     providing information that the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
 10 therapy has one or more of the following properties: can increase hemoglobin
    concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume,
    decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
    likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or
    uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g.,
 15 increase bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard,
    e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a
    different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of production of
    antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to
    the treatment;
 ?0                  associating the identifier with the information, e.g., in a database or by
    physical association; and
                     transferring the associated identifier and information to the recipient.
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a database, medium, or computer
25  containing or programmed to contain:
                     an identifier for a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso), e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade
    name or generic name of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
                     information that the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy has
30  one or more of the following properties: can increase hemoglobin concentration, increase
    platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume, decrease likelihood (e.g.,
                                                    22

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
    relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of
    subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase) for Gaucher disease) of
    infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g., increase bone mineral density),
    and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein,
  5 e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g.,
    imiglucerase) for Gaucher disease) of production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing
    antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to the treatment; and
                     an associative function associating the identifier with the information, e.g.,
    in a database or by physical association.
 I0
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of making a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or
    uplyso) available to a subject, the method comprising:
                     providing to the subject an identifier for the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
 15 replacement therapy, e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade name or generic
    name of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
                     providing to the subject information that the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy has one or more of the following properties: can increase
    hemoglobin concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen
 ?0 volume, decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein,
    e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g.,
    imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal
    parameter (e.g., increase bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative
    to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects
25  receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of
    production of antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA
    antibodies) to the treatment; and
                     placing into commerce, a dose of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy which can be administered to, provided to, or purchased by the
30  subject.
                                                    23

      WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of causing a subject to request
    a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or
    uplyso), the method comprising:
                     providing to the subject an identifier for the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
  5 replacement therapy, e.g., the chemical structure, chemical name, trade name or generic
    name of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy;
                     providing to the subject information that the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy has one or more of the following can increase hemoglobin
    concentration, increase platelet count, decrease liver volume, decrease spleen volume,
 10 decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard, e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the
    likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or
    uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of infusion site reaction, change a skeletal parameter (e.g.,
    increase bone mineral density), and/or decrease likelihood (e.g., relative to a standard,
    e.g., a standard described herein, e.g., the likelihood for a cohort of subjects receiving a
 15 different treatment (e.g., imiglucerase or uplyso) for Gaucher disease) of production of
    antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to
    the treatment; and
                     placing into commerce, a dose of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy which can be administered to, provided to, or purchased by the
 ?o subject.
             In another aspect, the disclosure features a method of selecting a payment class
    for a course of treatment with a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso) for a subject with Gaucher disease (e.g., type I
    Gaucher disease). The method includes providing (e.g., receiving) an evaluation of
25  whether or not the subject experiences an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g.,
    IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy; and performing at least one of (1) if the subject experiences an infusion site
    reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies
30  (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy selecting a first payment class, and (2) if
                                                    24

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    the subject does not experience an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy or does not produce antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g.,
    IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy selecting a second payment class.
  5         In some embodiments, assignment of the subject is to the first class and the
    assignment authorizes payment for a course of treatment (e.g., velaglucerase).
            In some embodiments, assignment of the subject is to the second class and the
    assignment authorizes payment for a course of treatment (e.g., imiglucerase,
    velaglucerase or uplyso).
 I0         In some embodiments, the evaluation is whether or not a subject produces
    antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy and the evaluation was obtained by a
    method described herein.
 15         In another aspect, the disclosure features a method of selecting a payment class
    for a course of treatment with a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso) for a subject with Gaucher disease (e.g., type I
    Gaucher disease). The method includes providing (e.g., receiving) an evaluation of
    whether or not the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%,
 ?o 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean
    platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every
    other week for 9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less
    than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline
25  mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g.,
    administered every other week for 6 months); and performing at least one of (1) if the
    subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or
    55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count
30  prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
                                                   25

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    9 months) or if the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%, 35%,
    30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet
    count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every
  5 other week for 6 months), selecting a first payment class, and (2) if the subject's mean
    platelet count increased by 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months
    of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or if
 10 the subject's mean platelet count increased by 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months
    of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months),
    selecting a second payment class.
 15         In some embodiments, assignment of the subject is to the first class and the
    assignment authorizes payment for a course of treatment (e.g., velaglucerase).
            In some embodiments, assignment of the subject is to the second class and the
    assignment authorizes payment for a course of treatment (e.g., imiglucerase,
    velaglucerase or uplyso).
 ?0         In some embodiments, the evaluation was obtained by a method described herein.
            In one aspect, the disclosure features a method of providing information on which
    to make a decision about a subject with Gaucher disease (e.g., type I Gaucher disease), or
    making such a decision. The method includes providing (e.g., by receiving) an
25  evaluation of a subject, wherein the evaluation was made by a method described herein,
    e.g., by optionally, administering a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso), to the subject; providing a determination post
    administration of whether or not the subject experiences an infusion site reaction to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g.,
30  neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy, thereby providing a post administration
                                                  26

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    determination; providing a comparison of the post administration determination with a
    standard (e.g., a standard described herein), thereby, providing information on which to
    make a decision about a subject, or making such a decision.
             In some embodiments, the method includes making the decision.
  5          In some embodiments, the method also includes communicating the information
    to another party (e.g., by computer, compact disc, telephone, facsimile, email, or letter).
             In some embodiments, the decision includes selecting a subject for payment,
    making or authorizing payment for a first course of action (e.g., treatment with
    velaglucerase) if the subject experiences an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase
 10 enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g.,
    IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy and a second course of action (e.g., treatment with imiglucerase, velaglucerase or
    uplyso) if the subject does not experience an infusion site reaction to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or does not produce antibodies (e.g.,
 15 neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement.
             In some embodiments, the subject experiences an infusion site reaction to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g.,
    neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
 ?o glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy and the course of action is authorization
    of a course of therapy (e.g., treatment with velaglucerase).
             In some embodiments, the subject experiences an infusion site reaction to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g.,
    neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
25  glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy and the course of action is assigning the
    subject to a first class. In some embodiments, assignment to the first class will enable
    payment for a treatment (e.g., velaglucerase) provided to the subject. In some
    embodiments, payment is by a first party to a second party. In some embodiments, the
    first party is other than the subject. In some embodiments, the first party is selected from
30  a third party payer, an insurance company, employer, employer sponsored health plan,
    HMO, or governmental entity. In some embodiments, the second party is selected from
                                                  27

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a
    governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some
    embodiments, the first party is an insurance company and the second party is selected
    from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a
  5 governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some
    embodiments, the first party is a governmental entity and the second party is selected
    from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, an
    insurance company, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment.
            In some embodiments, the subject does not experience an infusion site reaction to
 10 a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or does not produce antibodies (e.g.,
    neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement and the course of action is authorization of a
    course of therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso).
            In some embodiments, the subject does not experience an infusion site reaction to
 15 a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or does not produce antibodies (e.g.,
    neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement and the course of action is assigning the subject
    to a second class. In some embodiments, assignment to the second class will enable
    payment for a treatment (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso) provided to the
 ?o subject. In some embodiments, payment is by a first party to a second party. In some
    embodiments, the first party is other than the subject. In some embodiments, the first
    party is selected from a third party payer, an insurance company, employer, employer
    sponsored health plan, HMO, or governmental entity. In some embodiments, the second
    party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a
25  hospital, a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In
    some embodiments, the first party is an insurance company and the second party is
    selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital,
    a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some
    embodiments, the first party is a governmental entity and the second party is selected
30  from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, an
    insurance company, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment.
                                                   28

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
            In one aspect, the disclosure features a method of providing information on which
    to make a decision about a subject with Gaucher disease (e.g., type I Gaucher disease), or
    making such a decision. The method includes providing (e.g., by receiving) an
  5 evaluation of a subject, wherein the evaluation was made by a method described herein,
    e.g., by optionally, administering a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso), to the subject; providing a determination post
    administration of whether or not the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than
    80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to
 I0 their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet
    count increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as
    compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase
 15 enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of
    60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months), thereby providing a post
    administration determination; providing a comparison of the post administration
    determination with a standard (e.g., a standard described herein), thereby, providing
    information on which to make a decision about a subject, or making such a decision.
 ?0         In some embodiments, the method includes making the decision.
            In some embodiments, the method also includes communicating the information
    to another party (e.g., by computer, compact disc, telephone, facsimile, email, or letter).
            In some embodiments, the decision includes selecting a subject for payment,
    making or authorizing payment for a first course of action (e.g., treatment with
25  velaglucerase) if the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 80%, 75%,
    70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their
    baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or if the subject's mean platelet count
30  increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as
    compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase
                                                   29

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of
    60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) and a second course of action
    (e.g., treatment with imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso) if the subject's mean platelet
    count increased by 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of
  5 treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or if
    the subject's mean platelet count increased by 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months
    of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
 10 glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months).
             In some embodiments, the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than
    80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to
    their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
 15 replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or the subject's mean platelet count
    increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as
    compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of
 ?0 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) and the course of action is
    authorization of a course of therapy (e.g., treatment with velaglucerase).
             In some embodiments, assignment of the subject is to the first class and the
    assignment authorizes payment for a course of treatment (e.g., velaglucerase).
             In some embodiments, assignment of the subject is to the second class and the
25  assignment authorizes payment for a course of treatment (e.g., imiglucerase,
    velaglucerase or uplyso).
             In some embodiments, the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than
    80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to
    their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
30  replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or the subject's mean platelet count
                                                   30

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as
    compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of
    60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) and the course of action is
  5 assigning the subject to a first class. In some embodiments, assignment to the first class
    will enable payment for a treatment (e.g., velaglucerase) provided to the subject. In some
    embodiments, payment is by a first party to a second party. In some embodiments, the
    first party is other than the subject. In some embodiments, the first party is selected from
    a third party payer, an insurance company, employer, employer sponsored health plan,
 I0 HMO, or governmental entity. In some embodiments, the second party is selected from
    the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a
    governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some
    embodiments, the first party is an insurance company and the second party is selected
    from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a
 15 governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some
    embodiments, the first party is a governmental entity and the second party is selected
    from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, an
    insurance company, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment.
             In some embodiments, the subject's mean platelet count increased by 80%, 75%,
 ?o 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their
    baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or if the subject's mean platelet count
    increased by 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their
25  baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) and the course of action is
    authorization of a course of therapy (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso).
             In some embodiments, the subject's mean platelet count increased by 80%, 75%,
30  70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their
    baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
                                                   31

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or if the subject's mean platelet count
    increased by 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their
    baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
  5 replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) and the course of action is assigning
    the subject to a second class. In some embodiments, assignment to the second class will
    enable payment for a treatment (e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso) provided to
    the subject. In some embodiments, payment is by a first party to a second party. In some
 10 embodiments, the first party is other than the subject. In some embodiments, the first
    party is selected from a third party payer, an insurance company, employer, employer
    sponsored health plan, HMO, or governmental entity. In some embodiments, the second
    party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a
    hospital, a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In
 15 some embodiments, the first party is an insurance company and the second party is
    selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital,
    a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some
    embodiments, the first party is a governmental entity and the second party is selected
    from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, an
 ?0 insurance company, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment.
             In another aspect, the disclosure features a method of selecting a payment class
    for a course of treatment with a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    velaglucerase) for a subject with Gaucher disease (type I Gaucher disease). The method
25  includes determining that an infusion site reaction during or within 12 hours after
    infusion of the therapy is present in the subject or that antibodies (e.g., neutralizing
    antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to the therapy are present in the
    subject, e.g., by a method described herein, and approving, making, authorizing,
    receiving, transmitting or otherwise allowing payment of a selected course of treatment,
30  e.g., velaglucerase.
                                                   32

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             In another aspect, the disclosure features a method of selecting a payment class
    for a course of treatment with a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase velaglucerase, or uplyso) for a subject with Gaucher disease (type I Gaucher
    disease). The method includes determining that an infusion site reaction during or within
  5 12 hours after infusion of the therapy is not present in the subject or that antibodies (e.g.,
    neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to the therapy are not
    present in the subject, e.g., by a method described herein, and approving, making,
    authorizing, receiving, transmitting or otherwise allowing payment of a selected course of
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase, velaglucerase or uplyso.
 I0
             In one aspect, the disclosure features a method of making a data record. The
    method includes entering the result of a method described herein into a record, e.g., a
    computer readable record. In some embodiments, the record is available on the world
    wide web. In some embodiments, the record is evaluated by a third party payer, an
 15 insurance company, employer, employer sponsored health plan, HMO, or governmental
    entity, or a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a governmental
    entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment, or is otherwise relied on in a
    method described herein.
 ?0          In another aspect, the disclosure features a data record (e.g., computer readable
    record), wherein the record includes results from a method described herein. In some
    embodiments, the record is available on the world wide web. In some embodiments, the
    record is evaluated and/or transmitted to a third party payer, an insurance company,
    employer, employer sponsored health plan, HMO, or governmental entity, or a healthcare
25  provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a governmental entity, or an entity
    which sells or supplies the treatment.
             In one aspect, the disclosure features a method of providing data. The method
    includes providing data described herein, e.g., generated by a method described herein, to
30  provide a record, e.g., a record described herein, for determining if a payment will be
    provided. In some embodiments, the data is provided by computer, compact disc,
                                                   33

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    telephone, facsimile, email, or letter. In some embodiments, the data is provided by a
    first party to a second party. In some embodiments, the first party is selected from the
    subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, a governmental
    entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment. In some embodiments, the
  5 second party is a third party payer, an insurance company, employer, employer sponsored
    health plan, HMO, or governmental entity. In some embodiments, the first party is
    selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital,
    an insurance company, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment and the second
    party is a governmental entity. In some embodiments, the first party is selected from the
 10 subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, an insurance
    company, or an entity which sells or supplies the treatment and the second party is an
    insurance company.
             In one aspect, the disclosure features a method of transmitting a record described
 15 herein. The method includes a first party transmitting the record to a second party, e.g.,
    by computer, compact disc, telephone, facsimile, email, or letter. In some embodiments,
    the second party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician,
    an HMO, a hospital, a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the
    treatment. In some embodiments, the first party is an insurance company or government
 ?0 entity and the second party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating
    physician, an HMO, a hospital, a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies
    the treatment. In some embodiments, the first party is a governmental entity or insurance
    company and the second party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a
    treating physician, an HMO, a hospital, an insurance company, or an entity which sells or
25  supplies the treatment.
             In one method, information, e.g., about whether or not a subject with Gaucher
    disease experiences an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy or produces antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or
30  IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., wherein the
    information is obtained as described herein) is provided (e.g., communicated, e.g.,
                                                   34

      WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    electronically communicated) to a third party, e.g., a hospital, clinic, a government entity,
    reimbursing party or insurance company (e.g., a life insurance company). For example,
    choice of medical procedure, payment for a medical procedure, payment by a
    reimbursing party, or cost for a service or insurance can be function of the information.
  5 E.g., the third party receives the information, makes a determination based at least in part
    on the information, and optionally communicates the information or makes a choice of
    procedure, payment, level of payment, coverage, etc. based on the information.
             In one method, information, e.g., whether or not the mean platelet count of a
    subject with Gaucher disease increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or
 10 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count
    prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
    9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%,
    35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean
 15 platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every
    other week for 6 months) (e.g., wherein the information is obtained as described herein)
    is provided (e.g., communicated, e.g., electronically communicated) to a third party, e.g.,
    a hospital, clinic, a government entity, reimbursing party or insurance company (e.g., a
 ?o life insurance company). For example, choice of medical procedure, payment for a
    medical procedure, payment by a reimbursing party, or cost for a service or insurance can
    be function of the information. E.g., the third party receives the information, makes a
    determination based at least in part on the information, and optionally communicates the
    information or makes a choice of procedure, payment, level of payment, coverage, etc.
25  based on the information.
             In one embodiment, a premium for insurance (e.g., life or medical) is evaluated as
    a function of information about whether or not a subject with Gaucher disease
    experiences an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy
    or produces antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA
30  antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. For example,
    premiums can be increased (e.g., by a certain percentage) if the subject experiences an
                                                   35

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement or produces antibodies
    (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
             In one embodiment, a premium for insurance (e.g., life or medical) is evaluated as
  5 a function of information about whether or not the mean platelet count of a subject with
    Gaucher disease increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or
    12 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to
    initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
 10 9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%,
    35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean
    platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every
    other week for 6 months) (e.g., wherein the information is obtained as described herein).
 15 For example, premiums can be increased (e.g., by a certain percentage) if the subject's
    mean platelet count increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9
    or 12 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to
    initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
 ?o 9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%,
    35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean
    platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every
    other week for 6 months).
25
             Information about whether or not a subject with Gaucher disease experiences an
    infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces
    antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy can be used, e.g., in an underwriting
30  process for life insurance. The information can be incorporated into a profile about a
    subject. Other information in the profile can include, for example, date of birth, gender,
                                                   36

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    marital status, banking information, credit information, children, and so forth. An
    insurance policy can be recommended as a function of the information on whether or not
    a subject with Gaucher disease experiences an infusion site reaction to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g.,
  5 neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. An insurance premium or risk
    assessment can also be evaluated as function of whether or not a subject with Gaucher
    disease experiences an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy or produces antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or
 I0 IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
            Information about whether or not the subject's mean platelet count increased by
    less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as
    compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of
 15 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or whether the subject's mean
    platelet count increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of
    treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months) can
 ?0 be used, e.g., in an underwriting process for life insurance. The information can be
    incorporated into a profile about a subject. Other information in the profile can include,
    for example, date of birth, gender, marital status, banking information, credit information,
    children, and so forth. An insurance policy can be recommended as a function of the
    information on whether or not the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than
25  80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to
    their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg,
    e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet
    count increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as
30  compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of
                                                  37

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 6 months). An insurance premium or
    risk assessment can also be evaluated as function of whether or not whether or not the
    subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or
    55% after 9 or 12 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count
  5 prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
    9 months) or whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%,
    35%, 30%, or 25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean
    platelet count prior to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
 10 imiglucerase treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every
    other week for 6 months).
            In one embodiment, information about whether or not a subject with Gaucher
    disease experiences an infusion site reaction to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy or produces antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or
 15 IgA antibodies) to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy is analyzed by a
    function that determines whether to authorize the transfer of funds to pay for a service or
    treatment provided to a subject (or make another decision referred to herein). For
    example, the results (e.g., that the subject experiences an infusion site reaction to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or produces antibodies (e.g.,
 ?o neutralizing antibodies) (e.g., IgE, IgM, IgG and/or IgA antibodies) to a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy) may indicate that a subject is suitable
    for treatment (e.g., velaglucerase), suggesting that a treatment course (e.g., with
    velaglucerase) is needed, thereby triggering an outcome that indicates or causes
    authorization to pay for a service or treatment (e.g.,, velaglucerase) provided to a subject.
25   For example, an entity, e.g., a hospital, care giver, government entity, or an insurance
    company or other entity which pays for, or reimburses medical expenses, can use the
    outcome of a method described herein to determine whether a party, e.g., a party other
    than the subject patient, will pay for services (e.g., a particular therapy) or treatment
    provided to the patient. For example, a first entity, e.g., an insurance company, can use
30  the outcome of a method described herein to determine whether to provide financial
    payment to, or on behalf of, a patient, e.g., whether to reimburse a third party, e.g., a
                                                   38

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    vendor of goods or services, a hospital, physician, or other care-giver, for a service or
    treatment (e.g., velaglucerase) provided to a patient. For example, a first entity, e.g., an
    insurance company, can use the outcome of a method described herein to determine
    whether to continue, discontinue, enroll an individual in an insurance plan or program,
  5 e.g., a health insurance or life insurance plan or program.
             In one embodiment, information about whether or not the subject's mean platelet
    count increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months
    of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
 10 imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or
    whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or
    25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior
    to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
    treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
 15 6 months) is analyzed by a function that determines whether to authorize the transfer of
    funds to pay for a service or treatment provided to a subject (or make another decision
    referred to herein). For example, the results (e.g., that the subject's mean platelet count
    increased by less than 80%, 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, or 55% after 9 or 12 months of
    treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior to initiating the
 ?o glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase treatment, e.g.,
    imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for 9 months) or
    whether the subject's mean platelet count increased by less than 40%, 35%, 30%, or
    25% after 6 months of treatment as compared to their baseline mean platelet count prior
    to initiating the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., imiglucerase
25  treatment, e.g., imiglucerase at a dose of 60 U/kg, e.g., administered every other week for
    6 months)) may indicate that a subject is suitable for treatment (e.g., velaglucerase),
    suggesting that a treatment course (e.g., with velaglucerase) is needed, thereby triggering
    an outcome that indicates or causes authorization to pay for a service or treatment (e.g.,
    velaglucerase) provided to a subject.     For example, an entity, e.g., a hospital, care giver,
30  government entity, or an insurance company or other entity which pays for, or reimburses
    medical expenses, can use the outcome of a method described herein to determine
                                                   39

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    whether a party, e.g., a party other than the subject patient, will pay for services (e.g., a
    particular therapy) or treatment provided to the patient. For example, a first entity, e.g.,
    an insurance company, can use the outcome of a method described herein to determine
    whether to provide financial payment to, or on behalf of, a patient, e.g., whether to
  5 reimburse a third party, e.g., a vendor of goods or services, a hospital, physician, or other
    care-giver, for a service or treatment (e.g., velaglucerase) provided to a patient. For
    example, a first entity, e.g., an insurance company, can use the outcome of a method
    described herein to determine whether to continue, discontinue, enroll an individual in an
    insurance plan or program, e.g., a health insurance or life insurance plan or program.
 I0
             In one aspect, the disclosure features a method of providing data. The method
    includes providing data described herein, e.g., generated by a method described herein, to
    provide a record, e.g., a record described herein, for determining if a payment will be
    provided. In some embodiments, the data is provided by computer, compact disc,
 15 telephone, facsimile, email, or letter. In some embodiments, the data is provided by a
    first party to a second party. In some embodiments, the first party is selected from the
    subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, a health maintenance organization
    (HMO), a hospital, a governmental entity, or an entity which sells or supplies the drug.
    In some embodiments, the second party is a third party payer, an insurance company,
 ?o employer, employer sponsored health plan, HMO, or governmental entity. In some
    embodiments, the first party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating
    physician, an HMO, a hospital, an insurance company, or an entity which sells or
    supplies the drug and the second party is a governmental entity. In some embodiments,
    the first party is selected from the subject, a healthcare provider, a treating physician, an
25  HMO, a hospital, an insurance company, or an entity which sells or supplies the drug and
    the second party is an insurance company.
             In some aspects, the disclosure provides the use of a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase or uplyso), alone or in
    combination with another agent(s) described herein (e.g., isofagomine tartrate, miglustat,
30  or Genz 112638), for use in treatment.
                                                    40

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
             In some aspects, the disclosure provides the use of a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase), alone or in combination with
    another agent(s) described herein (e.g., isofagomine tartrate, miglustat, or Genz 112638),
    for the preparation of a medicament, e.g., for treating Gaucher disease.
  5
             In another aspect, the disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition of
    velaglucerase. The composition comprises: velaglucerase, a lyoprotectant (e.g., a
    carbohydrate (e.g., sucrose)), a buffer salt (e.g., citrate and/or citric acid, e.g., sodium
    citrate and citric acid), and a stabilizing agent (e.g., polysorbate, e.g., polysorbate 20).
 I0          In some embodiments, the composition can be lyophilized. In some
    embodiments, the moisture content of the lyophilized composition is 1% to 6%, e.g.,
    1.3% to 6.2%. In some embodiments, the moisture content of the lyophilized
    composition is 1% to 5%. In some embodiments, the moisture content of the lyophilized
    composition is 3% to 5%. In some embodiments, the moisture content is greater than or
 15 equal to 3%. In some embodiments, the moisture content is 3%.
             In some embodiments, the lyophilized composition can be evaluated. For
    example, the secondary structure of the lyophilized composition can be evaluated, e.g.,
    by FT-IR.
             In other embodiments, the composition can be a reconstituted solution. For
 ?o example, the composition is a reconstituted solution in a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier such as Sterile Water for Injection (e.g., a 200 unit vial with 2.2 mL Sterile Water
    for Injection or a 400 unit vial with 4.3 mL Sterile Water for Injection). In some
    embodiments, the composition can further comprise, or consist of, sodium chloride
    solution suitable for intravenous administration (e.g., 0.9% sodium chloride solution
25  suitable for intravenous administration).
             In some embodiments, the reconstituted solution can be evaluated, e.g., for
    degradation. For example, the reconstituted solution can be evaluated by SE-HPLC
    and/or RP-HPLC, e.g., for the presence of degradation products.
             In some embodiments, the reconstituted solution can be evaluated for oxidation.
30  For example, the reconstituted solution can be evaluated by peptide mapping.
                                                    41

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             In some aspects, the disclosure features an assay (e.g., method) for detecting an
    anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody in a sample (e.g., a patient sample, e.g., blood or
    serum). The method includes:
             providing a glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase or uplyso)
  5 immobilized on a surface (e.g., a microwell) (for example, the surface can be coated with
    a coupling agent such as strepavidin and the glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase,
    imiglucerase or uplyso) can be bound to an agent (e.g., biotin) which associates with,
    e.g., binds to, the coupling agent, e.g., the glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase,
    imiglucerase or uplyso) is immobilized to the surface via the biotin binding to the
 10 strepavidin;
             contacting the sample to the immobilized glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase,
    imiglucerase or uplyso), under conditions that allow an anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody
    in the sample, if present, to bind to the immobilized glucocerebrocidase, thereby forming
    a mixture;
 15          optionally performing a wash step to remove from the mixture any material in the
    sample that is not bound to the immobilized glucocerebrosidase;
             adding labeled glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase), wherein
    the labeled glucocerebrosidase is labeled with a detectable label (e.g., ruthenium-labeled
    glucocerebrosidase), to the mixture under conditions that allow the labeled
 ?0 glucocerebrosidase to bind to the anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., that is bound to
    the immobilized glucocerebrosidase), if present, (preferably, the label is not the same as
    the coupling agent and/or the agent that binds to the coupling agent, e.g., if biotin is used
    to immobilize glucocerebrosidase to the surface, the label is not biotin);
             optionally performing a wash step to remove labeled glucocerebrosidase that is
25  not bound to the anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody from the mixture; and
             detecting (and optionally quantifying) the label in the mixture, e.g., wherein
    detection of the label indicates that an anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody is present in the
    sample.
             In some embodiments, the detected label is quantified to a value and compared to
30  a control, e.g., a negative control, wherein if the value of detected label is greater than the
    negative control, the sample contains anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody. In some
                                                    42

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    embodiments, the negative control is the average negative control value (e.g.,
    background) for a plurality of negative controls. For example, the negative control can
    be normal human serum (NHS), and the average negative control value can be the
    average for a plurality of NHS lots, or the average of the negative control values obtained
  5 from a plurality of assays. For example, the negative control value can be a value of 1, 2,
    3, 4, 5 or 6 ng/ml of antibody, e.g., a value of greater than that number for a sample
    indicates that an anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody is present in the sample. As another
    example, the negative control value can be 200, 250, 300 (e.g., 306), 350, or 400, e.g., a
    value of greater than that number for a sample indicates that an anti-glucocerebrosidase
 10 antibody is present in the sample.
             In some embodiments, the assay is for detecting anti-velaglucerase antibodies. In
    another embodiment, the assay is for detecting anti-imiglucerase antibodies. In some
    embodiments, the assay is for detecting anti-uplyso antibodies.
 15          In some aspects, the disclosure features an assay for detecting an anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., IgG anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody) in a sample
    (e.g., a patient sample, e.g., blood or serum). The method includes:
             contacting the sample to labeled glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or
    imiglucerase), wherein the glucocerebrosidase is labeled with a detectable label (e.g., the
 ?o glucocerebrosidase is   1251 labeled), under conditions that allow an anti-glucocerebrosidase
    antibody in the sample, if present, to bind to labeled glucocerebrosidase, thereby forming
    a mixture;
             applying the mixture to a resin (e.g., Protein G, Protein A, Protein A/G, or Protein
    L resin) (e.g., a Protein G spin column) under conditions that allow the anti
25  glucocerebrosidase antibody, if present, to bind to the resin;
             optionally performing a wash step to remove labeled glucocerebrosidase that is
    not bound to the anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody from the mixture; and
             detecting (and optionally quantifying) the label in the mixture (e.g., on the resin),
    e.g., wherein detection of the label indicates that anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody is
30  present in the sample.
                                                    43

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
             In some embodiments, the assay is for detecting anti-velaglucerase antibodies. In
    another embodiment, the assay is for detecting anti-imiglucerase antibodies. In some
    embodiments, the assay is for detecting anti-uplyso antibodies.
             In some embodiments, the detected label is quantified to a value and compared to
  5 a control, e.g., a negative control, wherein if the value of detected label is greater than the
    negative control, the sample contains anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody. In some
    embodiments, the negative control is the average negative control value (e.g.,
    background) for a plurality of negative controls. For example, the negative control can
    be normal human serum (NHS), and the average negative control value can be the
 10 average for a plurality of NHS lots, or the average of the negative control values obtained
    from a plurality of assays.
             In some aspects, the disclosure features an assay for detecting a human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody in a sample (e.g., a patient sample, e.g., blood or serum).
 15 The method includes:
             providing glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase or uplyso)
    immobilized on a surface (e.g., a microwell) (for example, the surface can be coated with
    a coupling agent such as strepavidin and the glucocerebrosidase can be bound to an agent
    (e.g., biotin) that associates with, e.g., binds to, the coupling agent, e.g., the
 ?o glucocerebrosidase is immobilized to the surface via the biotin binding to the
    strepavidin);
             contacting the sample to the immobilized glucocerebrosidase, under conditions
    that allow a human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody in the sample, if present, to bind to
    the immobilized glucocerebrosidase, thereby forming a mixture;
25           optionally performing a wash step to remove from the mixture any material in the
    sample that is not bound to the immobilized glucocerebrosidase;
             adding an antibody that binds to the human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody to
    the mixture, wherein the antibody that binds to the human anti-glucocerebrosidase
    antibody is labeled with a detectable label (e.g., ruthenium or biotin), under conditions
30  that allow the labeled antibody that binds to the human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody
    to bind to the human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., that is bound to the
                                                     44

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    immobilized glucocerebrosidase), if present, (preferably, the label is not the same as the
    coupling agent and/or the agent that binds to the coupling agent, e.g., if biotin is used to
    immobilize glucocerebrosidase to the surface, the label is not biotin);
            optionally performing a wash step to remove labeled antibody that binds to the
  5 human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody that is not bound to the human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody from the mixture; and
            detecting (and optionally quantifying) the label in the mixture, e.g., wherein
    detection of the label indicates that human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody is present in
    the sample.
 10         In some embodiments, the assay detects anti-velaglucerase antibodies. In some
    embodiments, the assay detects anti-imiglucerase antibodies. In some embodiments, the
    assay detects anti-uplyso antibodies.
            In some embodiments, the detected label is quantified to a value and compared to
    a control, e.g., a negative control, wherein if the value of detected label is greater than the
 15 negative control, the sample contains anti-velaglucerase antibody. In some embodiments,
    the negative control is the average negative control value (e.g., background) for a
    plurality of negative controls.   For example, the negative control can be normal human
    serum (NHS), and the average negative control value can be the average for a plurality of
    NHS lots, or the average of the negative control values obtained from a plurality of
 ?o assays.
            In some embodiments, the antibody that binds to the human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody is isotype specific, wherein the isotype specific antibody
    that binds to the human anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody binds specifically to a human
    antibody of the isotype to which it is specific.
25          In some embodiments, the antibody that binds to the human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody is an IgA specific antibody and binds to an IgA human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody in the sample.
            In some embodiments, the antibody that binds to the human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody is an IgE specific antibody and binds to an IgE human anti
30  glucocerebrosidase antibody in the sample.
                                                   45

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             In some embodiments, the antibody that binds to the human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody is an IgM specific antibody and binds to an IgM human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody in the sample.
             In some embodiments, the antibody that binds to the human anti
  5 glucocerebrosidase antibody is an IgG specific antibody and binds to an IgG human anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody in the sample.
             In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of determining if an anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., in a sample) neutralizes (e.g., inhibits)
 10 glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase) activity. The method includes:
             providing a cell (e.g., a human cell, e.g., a human fibroblast cell) that expresses
    human macrophage mannose receptor (MMR);
             contacting the anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody to the cell, thereby forming a
    mixture;
 15          contacting labeled glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase, imiglucerase or
    uplyso) to the mixture, wherein the glucocerebrosidase is labeled with a detectable label
    (e.g., the glucocerebrosidase is labeled with a fluorescent label, e.g., a green fluorescent
    dye, such as Alexa FLUOR@ 488 or fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)), under conditions
    that allow the labeled glucocerebrosidase to bind to the MMR in the absence of an anti
 ?0 glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., wherein binding of glucocerebrosidase to MMR
    allows cellular uptake of the glucocerebrosidase);
             removing unbound labeled glucocerebrosidase and labeled glucocerebrosidase
    bound to the cell surface (e.g., via trypsin digestion); and
             measuring the amount of labeled glucocerebrosidase in the cell.
25           In some embodiments, the levels of labeled glucocerebrosidase are compared to a
    control, e.g., the level of labeled glucocerebrosidase detected in the absence of the anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody under identical conditions.
             In some embodiments, the cells do not express an Fc receptor (e.g., human Fc
    receptor).
30           In some embodiments, the method detects whether neutralizing anti-velaglucerase
    antibodies are present. In some embodiments, the method detects whether neutralizing
                                                    46

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    anti-imiglucerase antibodies are present. In some embodiments, the method detects
    whether neutralizing anti-uplyso antibodies are present.
             In some embodiments, the method detects whether an anti-imiglucerase antibody
    neutralizes imiglucerase activity. In some embodiments, the method detects whether an
  5 anti-velaglucerase antibody neutralizes velaglucerase activity. In some embodiments, the
    method detects whether an anti-uplyso antibody neutralizes uplyso activity.
             In some embodiments, the method detects whether an anti-imiglucerase antibody
    neutralizes velaglucerase and/or uplyso activity. In some embodiments, the method
    detects whether an anti-velaglucerase antibody neutralizes imiglucerase and/or uplyso
 10 activity. In some embodiments, the method detects whether an anti-uplyso antibody
    neutralizes imiglucerase and/or velaglucerase activity.
             In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of determining if an anti
    velaglucerase antibody (e.g., in a sample) neutralizes (e.g., inhibits) imiglucerase activity.
 15 The method includes:
             providing a cell (e.g., a human cell, e.g., a human fibroblast cell) that expresses
    human macrophage mannose receptor (MMR);
             contacting the anti-velaglucerase antibody to the cell, thereby forming a mixture;
             contacting labeled imiglucerase to the mixture, wherein the imiglucerase is
 ?o labeled with a detectable label (e.g., the imiglucerase is labeled with a fluorescent label,
    e.g., a green fluorescent dye, such as Alexa FLUOR@ 488 or fluorescein isothiocyanate
    (FITC)), under conditions that allow the labeled imiglucerase to bind to the MMR in the
    absence of an anti-velaglucerase antibody (e.g., wherein binding of imiglucerase to MMR
    allows cellular uptake of the imiglucerase);
25           removing unbound labeled imiglucerase and labeled imiglucerase bound to the
    cell surface (e.g., via trypsin digestion); and
             measuring the amount of labeled imiglucerase in the cell.
             In some embodiments, the levels of labeled imiglucerase are compared to a
    control, e.g., the level of labeled imiglucerase detected in the absence of the anti
30  velaglucerase antibody under identical conditions.
                                                    47

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             In some embodiments, the cells do not express an Fc receptor (e.g., human Fc
    receptor).
             In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of determining if an anti
  5 imiglucerase antibody (e.g., in a sample) neutralizes (e.g., inhibits) velaglucerase activity.
    The method includes:
             providing a cell (e.g., a human cell, e.g., a human fibroblast cell) that expresses
    human macrophage mannose receptor (MMR);
             contacting the anti-imiglucerase antibody to the cell, thereby forming a mixture;
 I0          contacting labeled velaglucerase to the mixture, wherein the velaglucerase is
    labeled with a detectable label (e.g., the velaglucerase is labeled with a fluorescent label,
    e.g., a green fluorescent dye, such as Alexa FLUOR@ 488 or fluorescein isothiocyanate
    (FITC)), under conditions that allow the labeled velaglucerase to bind to the MMR in the
    absence of an anti-imiglucerase antibody (e.g., wherein binding of velaglucerase to MMR
 15 allows cellular uptake of the velaglucerase);
             removing unbound labeled velaglucerase and labeled velaglucerase bound to the
    cell surface (e.g., via trypsin digestion); and
             measuring the amount of labeled velaglucerase in the cell.
             In some embodiments, the levels of labeled velaglucerase are compared to a
 ?o control, e.g., the level of labeled velaglucerase detected in the absence of the anti
    imiglucerase antibody under identical conditions.
             In some embodiments, the cells do not express an Fc receptor (e.g., human Fc
    receptor).
25           In some aspects, the disclosure features a hybrid antibody, wherein the hybrid
    antibody comprises a non-human anti-drug antibody and a human immunoglobulin (Ig).
             In some embodiments, the non-human anti-drug IgG antibody is a sheep anti-drug
    IgG antibody.
             In some embodiments, the anti-drug antibody binds to velaglucerase.
30           In some embodiments, the anti-drug antibody binds to imiglucerase.
             In some embodiments, the anti-drug antibody binds to uplyso.
                                                    48

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
             In some embodiments, the human Ig is IgA.
             In some embodiments, the human Ig is IgE.
             In some embodiments, the human Ig is IgM.
             In some embodiments, the human Ig is IgG.
  5          In some embodiments, the non-human anti-drug antibody is an IgG antibody.
             In some embodiments, the non-human anti-drug antibody and the human Ig are
    conjugated together by a chemical crosslinker, e.g., a long spacer arm cross linker, e.g.,
    succinimidyl 6-[3'-2-pyridyldithio-propionamido] hexanoate (LC-SPDP).
             In some embodiments, the hybrid antibody is used as a positive control in assays
 10 that detect and/or measure levels and/or isotypes of anti-drug antibody in a sample, e.g.,
    in a method described herein.
             In some embodiments, the hybrid antibody is used as a positive control in assays
    for determining if an anti-glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., in a sample) neutralizes
    (e.g., inhibits) glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase) activity, e.g., in a
 15 method described herein. For example, the hybrid antibody is used as an anti
    glucocerebrosidase antibody (e.g., in a sample) in the assay.
             In some aspects, the disclosure features a method of measuring cellular uptake
    (e.g., internalization) of glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase) into a
 ?o cell. The method includes:
             contacting glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase) to a cell (e.g.,
    a cell of a human leukemic monocyte lymphoma cell line (e.g., U937) or a cell of a
    murine macrophage cell line (e.g., J774)) to thereby form a mixture;
             incubating the mixture (e.g., for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 hours or overnight), e.g., to
25  allow cellular uptake of the glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or imiglucerase) into
    the cell; and
             measuring the amount of uptake of glucocerebrosidase (e.g., velaglucerase or
    imiglucerase) into the cell.
             In some embodiments, the amount of uptake is measured by measuring
30  glucocerebrosidase enzymatic activity in the cell. In some embodiments, a synthetic
    substrate that fluoresces upon cleavage (e.g., 4-MU-glc) is used.
                                                    49

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             In some embodiments, the amount of uptake is measured by measuring
    intracellular glucocerebrosidase protein levels. In some embodiments, Western blot
    analysis is used. In some embodiments, immunohistochemistry analysis is used (e.g.,
    immunohistochemistry on permeabilized cells).
  5          In some embodiments, the cell is washed one or more times prior to the
    measuring step.
             In some embodiments, the pH of the mixture is 7.5.
             In some embodiments, mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) is present in the mixture.
             In some embodiments, mannan is present in the mixture.
 10          In some embodiments, calcium is present in the mixture.
             In some embodiments, the amount of uptake is compared to a standard, e.g., the
    measured amount of uptake in the absence of contacting glucocerebrosidase (e.g.,
    velaglucerase or imiglucerase) to the cell, or comparing the measured amount of uptake
    in the presence and absence of mannose-6-phosphate, or comparing the measured amount
 15 of uptake in the presence and absence of mannan, or comparing the measured amount of
    uptake in the presence and absence of calcium.
             In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase is velaglucerase.
             In some embodiments, the glucocerebrosidase is imiglucerase.
             In some embodiments, the amount of uptake of velaglucerase is compared to the
 ?o amount of uptake of imiglucerase (e.g., under the same conditions).
             The term "subject" refers to any mammal, including but not limited to, any animal
    classified as such, including humans, non human primates, primates, baboons,
    chimpanzees, monkeys, rodents (e.g., mice, rats), rabbits, cats, dogs, horses, cows, sheep,
25  goats, pigs, etc. The term "subject" can be used interchangeably with the term "patient."
             The term "isolated" refers to a molecule that is substantially free of its natural
    environment. For instance, an isolated protein is substantially free of cellular material or
    other proteins from the cell or tissue source from which it is derived. The term refers to
    preparations where the isolated protein is sufficiently pure to be administered as a
30  therapeutic composition, or at least 70% to 80% (w/w) pure, more preferably, at least
                                                  50

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    80% 90% (w/w) pure, even more preferably, 90 to 95% pure; and, most preferably, at
    least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, 99.5%, 99.8% or 100% (w/w) pure.
            As used herein, the term "about" refers to up to + 10% of the value qualified by
    this term. For example, about 50 mM refers to 50 mM + 5mM; about 4% refers to 4% +
  5 0.4%.
            The terms "therapeutically effective dose," and "therapeutically effective
    amount," refer to that amount of a compound that results in prevention of symptoms (e.g.,
    prevention of 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% of symptoms, e.g.,
    symptoms of Gaucher disease in a subject diagnosed as having Gaucher disease), delay of
 I0 onset of symptoms, or amelioration of symptoms of Gaucher disease. A therapeutically
    effective amount will, for example, be sufficient to treat, prevent, reduce the severity,
    delay the onset, and/or reduce the risk of occurrence of one or more symptoms of a
    disorder associated with Gaucher disease. The effective amount can be determined by
    methods well known in the art and as described in subsequent sections of this description.
 15         The terms "treatment" and "therapeutic method" refer to treatment of an existing
    disorder and/or prophylactic/preventative measures. Those in need of treatment may
    include individuals already having a particular medical disorder, as well as those at risk
    or having, or who may ultimately acquire the disorder. The need for treatment is
    assessed, for example, by the presence of one or more risk factors associated with the
 ?o development of a disorder, the presence or progression of a disorder, or likely
    receptiveness to treatment of a subject having the disorder. Treatment may include
    slowing or reversing the progression of a disorder.
            The term "treating" refers to administering a therapy in an amount, manner,
    and/or mode effective to improve or prevent a condition, symptom, or parameter
25  associated with a disorder (e.g., a disorder described herein) or to prevent onset,
    progression, or exacerbation of the disorder, to either a statistically significant degree or
    to a degree detectable to one skilled in the art. Accordingly, treating can achieve
    therapeutic and/or prophylactic benefits. An effective amount, manner, or mode can vary
    depending on the subject and may be tailored to the subject.
30          "Infusion site reaction" as used herein refers to one or more symptom of
    hypersensitivity developed by a subject during or shortly after an infusion of a
                                                   51

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., within 12 hours of infusion of a
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement treatment to the subject). Symptoms include, for
    example, pruritus, burning, swelling or abscess at the site of infusion, flushing,
    urticara/angioedema, chest discomfort, tachycardia, cyanosis, respiratory symptoms and
  5 paraesthesia.
             The term "combination" refers to the use of the two or more agents or therapies to
    treat the same patient, wherein the use or action of the agents or therapies overlap in time.
    The agents or therapies can be administered at the same time (e.g., as a single formulation
    that is administered to a patient or as two separate formulations administered
 I0 concurrently) or sequentially in any order.
             All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned
    herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of conflict, the present
    specification, including definitions, controls. In addition, the materials, methods, and
 15 examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
             The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
    accompanying drawings and the description below.
 ?o                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             FIG. 1 (a)-(f) depicts mean % change in hematological values, organ values, and
    biomarkers in phase 1/11 trial.
             FIG. 2 depicts mean % change of key clinical parameters in phase 1/11 and
    extension trials.
25           FIG. 3 depicts TKT025EXT (N=10) mean hematological parameters change from
    baseline in TKT025.
             FIG. 4 depicts TKT025EXT (N=10) mean normalized organ volumes change
    from baseline in TKT025.
             FIG. 5 depicts TKT025 and TKT025EXT temporal change in mean Z-scores of
30  lumbar spine from baseline.
                                                   52

     WO 2011/017177                                                       PCT/US2010/043586
            FIG. 6 depicts TKT025 and TKT025EXT temporal change in mean Z-score of
    femoral neck from baseline.
            FIG. 7 depicts TKT032 (N=25) mean hemoglobin concentration change from
    baseline.
  5         FIG. 8 depicts TKT032 (N=25) mean platelet count change from baseline.
            FIG. 9 depicts TKT032 (N=25) mean normalized spleen volume change from
    baseline.
            FIG. 10 depicts TKT032 (N=25) mean normalized liver volume change from
    baseline.
 I0         FIG. 11 depicts HGT-GCB-039 (N=34) mean hemoglobin concentration change
    from baseline.
            FIG. 12 depicts HGT-GCB-039 (N=34) mean platelet count change from
    baseline.
            FIG. 13 depicts HGT-GCB-039 (N=34) mean change from baseline of platelet
 15 count in patients without spleen.
            FIG. 14 depicts HGT-GCB-039 (N=34) mean normalized liver volume change
    from baseline.
            FIG. 15 depicts TKT034 mean change from baseline in hemoglobin
    concentration.
 ?0         FIG. 16 depicts TKT034 mean n percent change from baseline in platelet count.
            FIG. 17 depicts TKT034 mean percent change from baseline in normalized liver
    volume.
            FIG. 18 depicts TKT034 mean percent change from baseline in normalized
    spleen volume.
25          FIG. 19 depicts TKT034 mean percent change from baseline in plasma
    chitotriosidase.
            FIG. 20 depicts TKT034 mean percent change from baseline in plasma CCL18.
            FIG. 21 depicts an immunogenicity evaluation of patients in velaglucerase alfa
    clinical studies.
30          FIG. 22 depicts an anti-drug antibody screening by electro-chemiluminescence
    (ECL) immunoassay.
                                                53

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
            FIG. 23 depicts a screening assay dose response curve.
            FIG. 24 depicts an IgG ADA confirmatory assay.
            FIG. 25 depicts an RIP assay dose response curve.
            FIG. 26 depicts IgA, IgM and IgE ADA confirmatory assays.
  5                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            The disclosure is based, in part, on the discovery that velaglucerase elicits less of
    an immune response (e.g., less production of antibody, e.g., less production of
    neutralizing antibody) than imiglucerase upon administration to a subject (e.g., a subject
    with Gaucher disease). It was discovered that velaglucerase elicits less infusion site
 10 reaction upon administration to a subject (e.g., a subject with Gaucher disease) than
    imiglucerase and velaglucerase can result in an increase in platelet count when
    administered to a subject (e.g., a subject having Gaucher disease) than imiglucerase. The
    invention relates, inter alia, to compositions and methods for selecting a treatment for a
    subject with Gaucher disease, selecting subjects for treatment with velaglucerase (e.g.,
 15 alone or in combination with another therapy), and methods for reducing injection site
    reaction in subjects undergoing treatment for Gaucher disease.
            Velaglucerase
            Velaglucerase is human     p-glucocerebrosidase   produced by gene-activation in a
 ?o human cell line. Gene activation refers to targeted recombination with a promoter that
    activates the endogenous    p-glucocerebrosidase   gene in the selected human cell line.
    Velaglucerase is secreted as a monomeric glycoprotein of approximately 63 kDa and is
    composed of 497 amino acids with a sequence identical to the natural human protein.
    The amino acid sequence of velaglucerase is described in Zimran et al. (2007) Blood
25  Cells Mol Dis, 39: 115-118.
            Glycosylation of velaglucerase alfa is altered by using kifunensine, a mannosidase
    I inhibitor, during cell culture, which results in the secretion of a protein containing
    primarily high-mannose type glycans having 6-9 mannose units per glycan. A summary
    of the glycan structure of velaglucerase is provided below.
                                                   54

 WO 2011/017177                                                 PCT/US2010/043586
Glycosylation Site Predominant Glycan    Other Glycans
Asn19              High-mannose          High-mannose
                   (Man)9 (GlcNAc) 2     (Man) 6-8 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         Phosphorylated high-mannose
                                         (Phos)1 (Man)8 9_ (GlcNAc) 2
                                         GlcNAc capped phosphate
                                         (Phos)1 (Man)8 9_ (GlcNAc) 3
                                         Hybrid
                                         (Hex) 2 (Man)3 (GlcNAc) 3 (Fuc)1
Asn59              High-mannose          High-mannose
                   (Man)9 (GlcNAc) 2     (Man)5s 8 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         Phosphorylated high-mannose
                                         (Phos)1 (Man) 7 _9 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         GlcNAc capped phosphate
                                         (Phos)1 (Man)8 9_ (GlcNAc) 3
                                         Hybrid
                                         (NeuAc) 1(Gal) 1 (Man)5(GlcNAc)3(Fuc) 1
                                         Complex
                                         (NeuAc) 0 -2 (Gal)2 (Man) 3(GlcNAc) 4(Fuc)1
                                         (Gal) 3(Man) 3(GlcNAc)5(Fuc) 1
Asn146             High-mannose          High-mannose
                   (Man)9 (GlcNAc) 2     (Man) 6-8 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         Phosphorylated high-mannose
                                         (Phos)1 (Man) 7 _9 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         GlcNAc capped phosphate
                                         (Phos)1 (Man)9 (GlcNAc) 3
                                         Hybrid
                                         (NeuAc) 1 (Gal) 1 (Man)5(GlcNAc) 3 (Fuc)1
Asn270             High-mannose          High-mannose
                   (Man)9 (GlcNAc) 2     (Man) 6-8 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         Phosphorylated high-mannose
                                         (Phos)1 (Man) 6-9 (GlcNAc) 2
                                         GlcNAc capped phosphate
                                         (Phos)1 (Man)9 (GlcNAc) 3
                                         Hybrid
                                         (Gal)1 Man) 7GlcNAc) 3Fuc) 1
                                         (NeuAc) 1(Gal) 1 (Man)5(GlcNAc)3(Fuc) 1
                                         Complex
                                         (NeuAc) 2 (Gal) 2(Man) 3(GlcNAc) 4 (Fuc)1
Asn462             Not Detected          Not Detected
                                      55

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             Velaglucerase has three non-contiguous domains, with the catalytic site located in
    domain III (residues 76-381 and 416-430), a (p/a)8 (TIM) barrel.
             Velaglucerase (VPRIV TM) is commercially available from Shire Human Genetics
    Therapies, Inc. Methods of making velaglucerase are described, for example, in U.S.
  5 Patent No.: 7,138,262.
             PharmaceuticalForm. Velaglucerase (also referred to herein as velaglucerase
    alfa) is a sterile, white to off-white, preservative-free lyophilized powder for solution in
    single-use vials for intravenous (IV) infusion after reconstitution with Sterile Water for
 10 Injection.
             Qualitative and Quantitative Composition. Upon reconstitution with Sterile
    Water for Injection, each vial contains approximately 2.5 mg/mL (40 U/mL) of
    velaglucerase alfa, 50 mg/mL sucrose, 12.9 mg/mL sodium citrate dihydrate, 1.3 mg/mL
    citric acid monohydrate and 0.11 mg/mL polysorbate 20. Each vial contains an
 15 extractable volume of 2.0 mL for the 200 U vial and 4.0 mL for the 400 U vial.
    Velaglucerase is supplied in a 200 U/vial (5 mg) or 400 U/vial (10mg) of velaglucerase
    alfa, one unit (U) of enzyme activity being defined as the quantity of enzyme required to
    convert one micromole of p-nitrophenyl B-D-glucopyranoside to p-nitrophenol per
    minute at 37 0C.
 ?0          Containerand Contents. Velaglucerase is a sterile, lyophilized powder for
    solution supplied in either a 5 mL (200 U/vial presentation) or 20 mL (400 U/vial
    presentation) type I glass vial. Each vial contains either 200 U (5 mg) or 400 U (10 mg)
    of velaglucerase alfa. The vials are closed with a butyl rubber stopper with a fluoro-resin
    coating and are sealed with an aluminum overseal with a flip-off plastic cap.
25           Instructionsfor Use. Velaglucerase is a lyophilized powder for solution intended
    for intravenous infusion. Vials are single-use vials. Velaglucerase is not infused with
    other products in the same infusion. The total volume of infusion is delivered over a
    period of 60 minutes. Velaglucerase should be handled as follows:
             1. Determine the number of vials to be reconstituted based on the individual
30  patient's weight and the prescribed dose.
                                                     56

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
            2. Remove the required number of vials from the refrigerator. Reconstitute
    200 unit vials with 2.2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection and 400 unit vials with 4.3 mL
    Sterile Water for Injection. Do not shake.
            3. Prior to dilution, visually inspect the solution in the vials. Do not use if the
  5 solution is discolored or if particulate matter is present.
            4. Withdraw the calculated volume of drug from the appropriate number of vials.
            5. Dilute the total volume required in 100mL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution
    suitable for IV administration, rock gently, but do not shake.
            Dose. Velaglucerase is administered at doses between (and including) 2.5 U/kg
 1o and 60 U/kg of subject body weight, e.g., 15 U/kg to 60 U/kg (e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45
    U/kg, or 60 U/kg). Velaglucerase can be administered at a rate of 2 U/kg/minute, 1.5
    U/kg/minute, 1 U/kg/minute or 0.5 U/kg/minute. The dose of velaglucerase is
    administered to the subject every other week.
            Velaglucerase can be administered at a dose of 15 to 60 U/kg (e.g. 30 U/kg to
 15 60 U/kg, e.g., 15 U/kg, 30 U/kg, 45U/kg, or 60 U/kg), at a dose equal to or below 22.5
    U/kg, at a dose between 22.5 and 37.5 U/kg, at a dose between 37.5 and 52.5 U/kg, or
    at a dose equal to or above 52.5 U/kg. In some embodiments, velaglucerase can be
    administered at a dose of 2.5 U/kg to 60 U/kg. In some embodiments, the velaglucerase
    can be administered every other week by intravenous infusion. In other embodiments,
 ?0 the velaglucerase can be administered every week by intravenous infusion. In some
    embodiments, the velaglucerase can be administered three times a week by intravenous
    infusion, e.g., at a dose of 2.5 U/kg.
            In some embodiments, the infusion of the dose (e.g., a dose described herein
    occurs over less than 2 hours, e.g., less than 90 minutes, 80 minutes, 70 minutes, 60
25  minutes, 50 minutes or 45 minutes.
            Recombinantly-produced human glucocerebrosidase. Other forms of
    recombinantly-produced human glucocerebrosidase that can be used in the compositions,
    assays and methods described herein. For example, imiglucerase (Cerazyme@) is
30  recombinately produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells and is commercially
    available. In addition, uplyso, a recombinant glucocerebrosidase (prGCD) expressed in
                                                    57

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    plant cells, can be used. Plant recombinant glucocerebrosidase can be obtained by
    methods described, e.g., in U.S. Publication Nos: US 20090208477 and US 20080038232
    and PCT Publication Nos.: WO 2004/096978 and WO 2008/132743.
  5          Maintenance Dose
             Upon improvement of a subject's condition, a maintenance dose of a treatment
    may be administered, if necessary. Subsequently, the dosage or frequency of
    administration, or both, may be reduced, as a function of the symptoms, to a level at
    which the improved condition is retained. Subjects may, however, require intermittent
 10 treatment on a long-term basis upon any recurrence of disease symptoms.
             Subjects treated with a dose of 60 U/kg of velaglucerase every other week, and after
    about 15-18 months of total treatment with velaglucerase, upon showing improvements in 2 of 4
    recommended therapeutic criteria (hemoglobin concentration, platelet counts, liver volume,
    spleen volume), were switched to a reduced dose of 30U/kg every other week. In spite of this
 15 dose reduction, these subjects showed clinically meaningful changes in the 4 parameters
    (hemoglobin concentration, platelet counts, spleen volume, and liver volume) and Biomarkers
    (Chitotriosidase and CCL18) over the course of 48 months.
             Qualitative comparison between velaglucerase and imiglucerase indicates potential
    additional benefit for Gaucher subjects in that, in spite of a dose reduction to almost half of that
 ?0 of imiglucerase, patients continued to improve clinically in the 4 parameters demonstrating a
    marked increase in hemoglobin concentration, continued increase in platelet count after 36
    months, and a rate of decline in liver/spleen volume.
             Alternative Therapy
25           The administration of velaglucerase (with or without the additional agent) can be
    used as an alternative treatment, e.g., for subjects who were previously treated with
    another therapy (i.e., a therapy other than velaglucerase, e.g., imiglucerase, alglucerase,
    uplyso, isofagomine tartrate, miglustat, or Genz112638). For example, a subject who is
    undergoing treatment for Gaucher disease with another therapy can be transferred to
30  treatment with velaglucerase, e.g., if the subject is experiencing a side effect or adverse
    effect from the other therapy. For example, a subject who is undergoing treatment for
                                                   58

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    Gaucher disease with imiglucerase can be transferred to treatment with velaglucerase,
    e.g., velaglucerase can be administered at the same dose and with the same frequency at
    which the imiglucerase was administered. For example, the subject may have
    experienced an infusion site reaction upon or after administration of imiglucerase and/or
  5 developed anti-imiglucerase antibodies (e.g., neutralizing antibodies to imiglucerase).
             Combination Therapy
             A subject who has Gaucher disease can be administered a therapy that includes
    velaglucerase in an amount and for a time to provide an overall therapeutic effect. The
 10 velaglucerase can be administered alone or in combination with an additional agent(s). In
    the case of a combination therapy, the amounts and times of administration can be those
    that provide, e.g., a synergistic therapeutic effect, or an additive therapeutic effect.
             In some embodiments, velaglucerase can be used in combination with another
    therapy for Gaucher disease, e.g., a therapy other than enzyme replacement therapy, e.g.,
 15 isofagomine tartrate, miglustat, or Genz 112638.
             Isofagomine tartrate. Isofagomine tartrate (AT-2101, HGT-34100, PLICERA@)
    ((3R,4R,5R)-3,4-Dihydroxy-5-(hydroxymethyl)piperidine L-(+)-tartrate; CAS No.
    957230-65-8) selectively binds to and stabilizes glucocerebrosidase and facilitates proper
    trafficking of the enzyme to the lysosomes, the compartments in the cell where it is
 ?o needed to break down glucocerebroside. See also U.S. Pat. No. 7,501,439.
            Miglustat. Miglustat (ZAVESCA@) ((2R,3R,4R,5S)-1-butyl-2
    (hydroxymethyl)piperidine-3,4,5-triol; CAS No. 72599-27-0) is an N-alkylated imino
    sugar, a synthetic analogue of D-glucose and a white to off-white crystalline solid that
    has a bitter taste. Miglustat exhibits a large volume of distribution and has the capacity to
25  access deep organs such as the brain, bone and lung.
             Miglustat inhibits glucosylceramide synthase an essential enzyme for the
    synthesis of most glycosphingolipids. Miglustat is a glucosylceramide synthase inhibitor.
    It works by blocking an enzyme that reduces the formation of certain chemicals in the
    body (glucosylceramide-based glycosphingolipids). Miglustat is used to treat adults with
30  mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease.
                                                    59

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             Genz112638. Genz112638 is glucosylceramide analog given orally, and is
    designed to partially inhibit glucosylceramide synthase, which results in reduced
    production of glucosylceramide.
             In addition, small molecules referred to as pharmacological chaperones can be
  5 used to selectively bind to a target macromolecule and increase its stability. For example,
    the binding of a pharmacological chaperone can help a target molecule, such as a protein
    (e.g., GCB) or other macromolecule (e.g., glucocerebroside), to fold into its correct three
    dimensional shape. This can facilitate the activity and cellular function of the molecule
    (e.g., enzymatic activity in the case of GCB). In addition or alternatively, the
 10 pharmacological chaperone can facilitate trafficking of the chaperoned molecule from the
    ER to the appropriate location in a cell. One or both of these functions can reduce stress
    on cells.
             Pharmacological chaperones also can decrease aggregation and/or accumulation
    of misfolded macromolecules. In addition, restoring trafficking of misfolded
 15 macromolecules (e.g., proteins) and reducing their retention in the ER can have the added
    benefit of alleviating the toxic effects (e.g., proteotoxic effects) associated with mutant
    macromolecule accumulation and/or aggregation.
             In certain embodiments, combination therapies can include one, two, or more
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapies, optionally in combination with one or
 ?o more small molecule therapies, such as isofagomine tartrate, miglustat, or Genz 112638,
    and/or optionally in combination with one or more pharmacological chaperones and/or
    other agents.
             In some embodiments, when velaglucerase is administered in combination with
    an additional agent, the combination can result in a lower dose of the additional agent or
25  velaglucerase being needed, such that side effects are reduced. The combination may
    result in enhanced delivery and efficacy of one or both agents.
             The agents or therapies can be administered at the same time (e.g., as a single
    formulation that is administered to a patient or as two separate formulations administered
    concurrently) or sequentially in any order. Sequential administrations are administrations
30  that are given at different times. The time between administration of the one agent and
    another agent can be minutes, hours, days, or weeks. The use of velaglucerase can also
                                                     60

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    be used to reduce the dosage of another therapy, e.g., to reduce the side-effects associated
    with another agent that is being administered, e.g., to reduce the side-effects of a therapy
    other than enzyme replacement therapy. Accordingly, a combination can include
    administering a second agent at a dosage at least 10, 20, 30, or 50% lower than would be
  5 used in the absence of velaglucerase.
            A combination therapy can include administering an agent that reduces the side
    effects of other therapies. For example, a corticosteroid can be administered to a subject
    prior to administration of the treatment for Gaucher disease to decrease infusion site
    reaction. As another example, iron supplement therapy can be given during the course of
 10 velaglucerase therapy.
            Gaucher disease
            Gaucher disease is the most common of the lysosomal storage diseases. It is
    caused by a hereditary deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (also known as acid
 15 p-glucosidase).   The enzyme acts on a fatty substance glucocerebroside (also known as
    glucosylceramide). When the enzyme is defective, the substance accumulates,
    particularly in cells of the mononuclear cell lineage. Fatty material can collect in the
    spleen, liver, kidneys, lungs, brain and bone marrow. Symptoms may include enlarged
    spleen and liver, liver malfunction, skeletal disorders and bone lesions that may be
 ?o painful, severe neurologic complications, swelling of lymph nodes and (occasionally)
    adjacent joints, distended abdomen, a brownish tint to the skin, anemia, low blood
    platelets and yellow fatty deposits on the white of the eye (sclera). Persons affected most
    seriously may also be more susceptible to infection. The disease is caused by a recessive
    gene on chromosome 1 and affects both males and females.
25          Gaucher disease has three common clinical subtypes:
            Type I (or non-neuropathic type) is the most common form of the disease,
    occurring in approximately 1 in 50,000 live births. It occurs most often among persons of
    Ashkenazi Jewish heritage. Symptoms may begin early in life or in adulthood and include
    enlarged liver and grossly enlarged spleen (together hepatosplenomegaly); the spleen can
30  rupture and cause additional complications. Skeletal weakness and bone disease may be
    extensive. Spleen enlargement and bone marrow replacement cause anemia,
                                                  61

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    thrombocytopenia and leucopenia. The brain is not affected, but there may be lung and,
    rarely, kidney impairment. Patients in this group usually bruise easily (due to low levels
    of platelets) and experience fatigue due to low numbers of red blood cells. Depending on
    disease onset and severity, type 1 patients may live well into adulthood. Many patients
  5 have a mild form of the disease or may not show any symptoms. In some embodiments,
    the methods and compositions described herein are used to treat type I Gaucher disease.
             Type II (or acute infantile neuropathic Gaucher disease) typically begins within 6
    months of birth and has an incidence rate of approximately 1 in 100,000 live births.
    Symptoms include an enlarged liver and spleen, extensive and progressive brain damage,
 10 eye movement disorders, spasticity, seizures, limb rigidity, and a poor ability to suck and
    swallow. Affected children usually die by age 2.
             Type III (the chronic neuropathic form) can begin at any time in childhood or
    even in adulthood, and occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 live births. It is
    characterized by slowly progressive but milder neurologic symptoms compared to the
 15 acute or type 2 version. Major symptoms include an enlarged spleen and/or liver,
    seizures, poor coordination, skeletal irregularities, eye movement disorders, blood
    disorders including anemia and respiratory problems. Patients often live into their early
    teen years and adulthood.
 ?0          Bone Mineral Density
             As used herein bone density (or bone mineral density) refers to the amount of
    matter per square centimeter of bones. Bone density can be used in clinical medicine as
    an indirect indicator of osteoporosis and/or fracture risk. BMD can be measured by a
    number of procedures, e.g., dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA or DEXA),
25  quantitative computed tomography (QCT), qualitative ultrasound (QUS), single photon
    absorptiometry (SPA), dual photon absorptiometry (DPA), digital X-ray radiogrammetry
    (DXR), and single energy X-ray absorptiometry (SEXA). Measurements can be made,
    e.g., over the lumbar spine, the upper part of the hip, or the forearm.
             Average bone mineral density can be defined as BMC / W [g/cm 2], wherein BMC
30    bone mineral content = g/cm, and W = width at the scanned line
                                                   62

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
                                                                                     -3
            Densitometry results can be reported in, e.g., measured density in g cm- , z-score,
    and t-score. Negative scores indicate lower bone density, and positive scores indicate
    higher.
            Z-score refers to the number of standard deviations above or below the mean for
  5 the patient's age, sex and ethnicity.
            T-score refers to the number of standard deviations above or below the mean for a
    healthy 30 year old adult of the same sex and ethnicity as the patient. The criteria of the
    World Health Organization are:
               e   Normal is a T-score of -1.0 or higher.
 10            e   Osteopenia is defined as less than -1.0 and greater than -2.5.
               e   Osteoporosis is defined as -2.5 or lower, meaning a bone density that is two
                   and a half standard deviations below the mean of a thirty year old woman.
    Administration
 15         The glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy described herein can, for
    example, be administered by injection, intravenously, intraarterially, subdermally,
    intraperitoneally, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously. Preferably the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy is administered invtravenously, with a dosage ranging from
    about 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75 or 80 U/kg, administered every
 ?0 other week, or according to the requirements of the particular compound. The methods
    herein contemplate administration of an effective amount of compound or compound
    composition to achieve the desired or stated effect. Typically, the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy can be administered as a continuous infusion, e.g., a
    continuous infusion over 60 minutes, 90 minutes, 120 minutes, or 150 minutes. The
25  amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier materials to produce a
    single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of
    administration. A typical preparation will contain from 5% to 95% active compound
    (w/w). Alternatively, such preparations contain from 20% to 80% active compound.
            Lower or higher doses than those recited above may be required. Specific dosage
30  and treatment regimens for any particular subject will depend upon a variety of factors,
                                                  63

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    including the activity of the specific compound employed, the age, body weight, general
    health status, sex, diet, time of administration, rate of excretion, drug combination, the
    severity and course of the disease, condition or symptoms, the subject's disposition to the
    disease, condition or symptoms, and the judgment of the treating physician.
  5          Upon improvement of a subject's condition, a maintenance dose of a compound,
    composition or combination of this invention may be administered, if necessary.
    Subsequently, the dosage or frequency of administration, or both, may be reduced, as a
    function of the symptoms, to a level at which the improved condition is retained. Subjects
    may, however, require intermittent treatment on a long-term basis upon any recurrence of
 10 disease symptoms.
             A compound, composition or combination of this invention may be administered
    as a home therapy (e.g., in the subject's home, workplace, or other non-clinical (e.g., non
    hospital) setting). It can be administered (e.g., via infusion) by a health care professional
    (e.g., nurse or physician's assistant). For example, if the subject has not experienced an
 15 adverse event (AE) (e.g., a drug-related serious AE or an infusion-related AE, e.g., an
    event described herein), e.g., after one, two, or three administrations (e.g., via infusion) of
    the compound, composition or combination, the subject is eligible to receive home
    therapy for subsequent administrations.
    Pharmaceutical Compositions
 ?o          A glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase) can be
    incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition for administration to a subject. Such
    compositions typically include the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g.,
    velaglucerase) and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
             As used herein, the language "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant"
25  includes solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic
    and absorption delaying agents, and the like, compatible with pharmaceutical
    administration. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the
    compositions. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or adjuvant" refers to a
    carrier or adjuvant that may be administered to a subject, together with
30  glucocerebrosidase, and which does not destroy the pharmacological activity thereof and
                                                   64

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    is nontoxic when administered in doses sufficient to deliver a therapeutic amount of the
    glucocerebrosidase.
             A pharmaceutical composition is formulated to be compatible with its intended
    route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral, e.g.,
  5 intravenous, intradermal and subcutaneous. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral,
    intradermal, or subcutaneous application can include the following components: a sterile
    diluent such as water for injection, saline solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols,
    glycerine, propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents; antibacterial agents such as
    benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens; antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite;
 I0 chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates
    or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or
    dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases, such as hydrochloric acid or sodium
    hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules, disposable syringes
    or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.
 15          For intravenous administration, suitable carriers include Sterile Water for
    Injection, physiological saline, bacteriostatic water, CREMOPHOR EL T M (BASF,
    Parsippany, NJ) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In all cases, the composition must
    be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It should be
    stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the
 ?o contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a
    solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (for
    example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyetheylene glycol, and the like), and
    suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use
    of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case
25  of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms
    can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens,
    chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be
    preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars such as sucrose, polyalcohols
    such as manitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of
30  the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an
    agent which delays absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
                                                   65

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             The pharmaceutical composition can include, for example, sterile water for
    injection, sucrose, sodium citrate, citric acid and polysorbate.
             Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the
    glucocerebrosidase in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a
  5 combination of ingredients enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered
    sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound
    into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other
    ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the
    preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are
 10 vacuum drying and freeze-drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any
    additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof.
             It is advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for
    ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers
 15 to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject to be treated; each
    unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the
    desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier.
             The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or
    dispenser together with instructions for administration.
 ?o Kit
             A glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., velaglucerase) can be
    provided in a kit. The kit includes (a) the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy, e.g., a composition that includes the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
    therapy, and (b) informational material. The informational material can be descriptive,
25  instructional, marketing or other material that relates to the methods described herein
    and/or the use of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy for the methods
    described herein. For example, the informational material describes methods for
    administering the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy to treat Gaucher
    disease.
30           In one embodiment, the informational material can include instructions to
    administer the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy in a suitable manner, e.g.,
                                                   66

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    in a suitable dose, dosage form, or mode of administration (e.g., a dose, dosage form, or
    mode of administration described herein). In another embodiment, the informational
    material can include instructions for identifying a suitable subject, e.g., a human. The
    informational material of the kits is not limited in its form. In many cases, the
  5 informational material, e.g., instructions, is provided in printed matter, e.g., a printed text,
    drawing, and/or photograph, e.g., a label or printed sheet. However, the informational
    material can also be provided in other formats, such as Braille, computer readable
    material, video recording, or audio recording. In another embodiment, the informational
    material of the kit is a link or contact information, e.g., a physical address, email address,
 I0 hyperlink, website, or telephone number, where a user of the kit can obtain substantive
    information about the modulator and/or its use in the methods described herein. Of
    course, the informational material can also be provided in any combination of formats.
             In addition to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy, the
    composition of the kit can include other ingredients, such as a solvent or buffer, a
 15 stabilizer or a preservative, and/or a second agent for treating Gaucher disease.
    Alternatively, the other ingredients can be included in the kit, but in different
    compositions or containers than the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. In
    such embodiments, the kit can include instructions for admixing the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy and the other ingredients (e.g., reconstituting a lyophilized
 ?o therapy and/or diluting the reconstituted therapy prior to administration), or for using the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy together with the other ingredients.
             The glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy can be provided in any
    form, e.g., liquid, dried or lyophilized form. It is preferred that the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy be substantially pure and/or sterile. When the
25  glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy is provided in a liquid solution, the
    liquid solution preferably is an aqueous solution, with a sterile aqueous solution being
    preferred. When the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy is provided as a
    dried form, reconstitution generally is by the addition of a suitable solvent. The solvent,
    e.g., sterile water or buffer, can optionally be provided in the kit.
30           The kit can include one or more containers for the composition containing the
    glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy. In some embodiments, the kit contains
                                                    67

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    separate containers, dividers or compartments for the glucocerebrosidase enzyme
    replacement therapy (e.g., in a composition) and informational material. For example,
    the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., in a composition) can be
    contained in a bottle, vial, or syringe, and the informational material can be contained in a
  5 plastic sleeve or packet. In other embodiments, the separate elements of the kit are
    contained within a single, undivided container. For example, the glucocerebrosidase
    enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., in a composition) is contained in a bottle, vial or
    syringe that has attached thereto the informational material in the form of a label. In
    some embodiments, the kit includes a plurality (e.g., a pack) of individual containers,
 10 each containing one or more unit dosage forms (e.g., a dosage form described herein) of
    the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., in a composition). For
    example, the kit includes a plurality of syringes, ampules, foil packets, or blister packs,
    each containing a single unit dose of the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
    The containers of the kits can be air tight and/or waterproof.
 15         The glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy (e.g., in a composition) can
    be administered to a subject with Gaucher disease. The method can include evaluating a
    subject, e.g., as described herein and thereby identifying a subject being in need of
    treatment with the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
 ?o         The following examples provide illustrative embodiments of the invention. One
    of ordinary skill in the art will recognize the numerous modifications and variations that
    may be performed without altering the spirit or scope of the present invention. Such
    modifications and variations are encompassed within the scope of the invention. The
    Examples do not in any way limit the invention.
25
                                             EXAMPLES
            The introduction of enzyme therapy has significantly impacted the natural history
    of type 1 Gaucher disease. Unfortunately, the existence of a single therapeutic option
    represents an inherent vulnerability in the treatment of patients with type 1 Gaucher
30  disease. Approximately 15% of imiglucerase treated patients have been reported to
    develop IgG antibodies and approximately half of these patients reported symptoms of
                                                   68

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    hypersensitivity (Starzyk K et al., Molec Genet Metab. 2007; 90:157-163). Globally, the
    dependence upon a single product in the treatment of Gaucher disease has been
    underscored by the recent shortage of imiglucerase (Steinbrook R et al., N Engl JMed.
    2009; 361:1525-1527). Among those receiving imiglucerase infusions, an unknown
  5 number of patients require pre-medication to mitigate a potential immune-mediated
    response. In some instances patients require hydrocortisone, which itself is associated
    with medical risks including AVN. Furthermore, recently published data suggest that
    59% of GD1 patients treated with imiglucerase fail to achieve at least one therapeutic
    goal following a minimum of 4 years of treatment regardless of dose and duration of
 1o treatment (Weinreb N et al., Am J Hematol. 2008; 83: 890-895).
            Velaglucerase alfa is a novel enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with unique
    characteristics (wild type amino acid sequence and high a-mannosyl content) that
    distinguishes it from imiglucerase. Some of the examples provided below describe
    clinical trials and extension studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of velaglucerase
 15 alfa. These are the first clinical trial involving an ERT to implement dose reduction and
    home therapy.
    Example 1: TKT025 and TKT025EXT Studies
    Summary
 ?o         This example describes a nine-month Phase 1/11 open-label, single center trial of
    velaglucerase alfa (TKT025) and ongoing extension (TKT025EXT) study conducted to
    evaluate safety and efficacy of velaglucerase alfa.
            The primary objective of the Phase 1/11 trial was to assess the safety of
    velaglucerase alfa administered intravenously at a dose of 60U/kg every-other-week for
25  nine months in adult patients with symptomatic type 1 (non-neuronopathic) Gaucher
    disease (GD1). The secondary objective of this trial was to assess the clinical activity of
    velaglucerase alfa on key disease features (Barton NW et al. N Engl J Med. 1991;
    324:1464-1470). The extension study was similarly designed to evaluate the long-term
    safety and assess the effects of velaglucerase alfa on four disease measures, hemoglobin
30  concentration, platelet count, liver volume, and spleen volume (Barton NW et al. N Engl
    JMed. 1991; 324:1464-1470).
                                                    69

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             Twelve symptomatic adult patients with type 1 Gaucher disease and intact spleens
    received velaglucerase alfa (60U/kg/infusion) during the Phase 1/11 study. Originally
    thirteen patients were screened to participate in the study, but one was exluded because of
    the presence of anti-imiglucerase antibody. An extension study was offered to patients
  5 who completed the trial and a step-wise dose reduction (to 30U/kg/infusion) was
    instituted. Eleven patients completed Phase 1/11; ten entered the extension study; nine
    patients reached 39 months in the extension. No drug-related serious adverse events or
    withdrawals, and no antibodies were observed. Home therapy was successfully
    implemented during the extension. Statistically significant improvements (p<0.004) were
 10 noted in mean percent change from baseline to nine months and baseline to 48 months for
    hemoglobin (+19.2%,+21.7% respectively), platelet counts (+67.6%, +157.8%
    respectively), normalized liver volume (-18.2%, -42.8% respectively), and normalized
    spleen volume (-49.5%, -79.3% respectively). These significant clinical changes and
    safety profile led to Phase III trials and highlight the potential of velaglucerase alfa as
 15 alternative therapy for type 1 Gaucher disease.
    Methods
             The Phase 1/11 and extension study was conducted in a single center (Gaucher
    Clinic, Shaare Zedek Medical Center; Jerusalem, Israel).
 ?o          Patients: Adult, symptomatic, enzymatically confirmed patients with GD 1 were
    screened. Eligibility criteria included age >18 years-old, an intact spleen, disease-related
    anemia (hemoglobin values at least 1g/dL below lower limit of normal (LLN) for
    gender), thrombocytopenia (platelet counts below the LLN), and a negative result for
    hepatitis B and C antigen and human immunodeficiency virus. Patients were eligible if
25  they were naYve to ERT or had not received imiglucerase within the 12 months prior to
    enrollment and were imiglucerase antibody-negative. Patients were excluded if they had
    received an investigational therapy for any other indication <30 days prior to enrollment
    or if they could not comply with the protocol for either medical or non-medical reasons.
30           Preparation and Dosing: Velaglucerase alfa was supplied by Shire HGT as a
    lyophilized product and shipped at 20 -80 C. The product was reconstituted with
                                                    70

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    preservative-free, sterile water for injection. The appropriate amount of velaglucerase alfa
    (based on body weight) was slowly mixed with normal saline to a final volume of
    100mL. The diluted velaglucerase alfa was administered intravenously across a 0.2[tm
    filter for a period of 60 minutes (maximum rate of 1.5mg/kg/hour; lU/kg/min).
  5          During the Phase 1/11 study, the first three patients received velaglucerase alfa on
    an every-other-week schedule at the trial site. Dose escalation was undertaken for the
    first three patients whereby dosing doubled from an initial dose of 15U/kg until a final
    dose of 60U/kg was achieved. The second and third patients received their initial 15U/kg
    infusion only after a 7-day observation period was completed for the first and second
 I0 patients respectively. Once the third patient received a single dose of 60U/kg and was
    observed for a period of 7 days, nine additional patients were enrolled and received
    infusions of 60U/kg every-other-week for a total of 20 doses. The patients who had
    undergone dose escalation were continued on an every-other-week schedule for 17
    further infusions at 60U/kg for a total of 20 infusions.
 15          During the extension study, all patients were continued at 60U/kg/infusion every
    other-week. After approximately 6-9 months of the extension study, patients who
    achieved at least 2 of the 4 therapeutic goals for improvement in anemia,
    thrombocytopenia, hepatomegaly, and/or splenomegaly (Pastores GM et al., Semin
    Hematol. 2004; 41:4-14) were transitioned to 45U/kg/infusion every-other-week for three
 ?o months and then transitioned to 30U/kg/infusion every-other-week. This convention of
    dose reduction based on achievement of therapeutic goals is in accordance with
    recommendations for individualization of ERT in patients on imiglucerase (Andersson
    HC et al., Genet Med. 2005; 7:105-110).
             In addition, the seven patients residing in Israel were transitioned to home therapy
25  during the extension phase.
             Safety Assessments: Safety was evaluated throughout the study by every-other
    week assessments of adverse events (including infusion-related reactions), concomitant
    medications, and vital signs performed before, during, and after infusions. Additional
30  safety assessments were conducted approximately every 12 weeks and included physical
    examinations, clinical laboratory tests (hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, and
                                                    71

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    pregnancy test), 12-lead electrocardiograms and echocardiograms at the trial site.
    Determination of the presence of anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies were conducted at 3
    month intervals at Shire HGT.
  5         Antibody Assays: All participants were screened for circulating anti-velaglucerase
    alfa antibodies using a validated indirect ELISA. Microwell plates were coated with
    velaglucerase alfa, washed, and blocked with bovine serum albumin to limit non-specific
    antibody binding. They were incubated with patient serum samples diluted 100-fold in
    phosphate buffered saline containing 0.05% Tween 20 for 60 minutes at 37 0 C. The
 10 microwells were washed and then incubated with the appropriate horseradish peroxidase
    (HRP)-conjugated secondary antibody. They were separately probed with the following
    HRP-antibody, isotype-specific conjugates: 1) goat anti-human IgG Fc, 2) goat anti
    human IgA a-chain, 3) goat anti-human IgM V-chain, or 4) goat anti-human IgE g-chain
    secondary antibodies. The microwells were washed one final time and incubated with the
 15 HRP chromogenic substrate 3, 3', 5, 5' tetramethyl benzidine. The reaction was stopped
    by the addition of 2N sulfuric acid, and the absorbance of each well was quantified at
    450nm (A 450 ) using a Molecular Devices SPECTRAmax Plus384 plate reader and
    SOFTMax PRO software. Antibody-positive serum samples were obtained from patients
    receiving imiglucerase. These patient antibodies cross-reacted with velaglucerase alfa and
 ?0 were used as human positive controls in the screening assay for anti-velaglucerase
    antibodies. These sera were therefore both anti-imiglucerase and anti-velaglucerase alfa
    positive. Negative, as well as positive, human serum controls were included within every
    assay plate.
            A robust ELISA antibody positive cutpoint absorbance for anti-velaglucerase alfa
25  antibodies was established from the mean absorbance of ERT-naYve Gaucher patient
    serum samples (N=108). Parametric analysis of ELISA absorbance data was used to
    calculate the antibody-positive lower limit (mean plus 1.645 x standard deviations; where
    1.645 is the 95h percentile of the normal distribution, thus potentially accepting a 5%
    false-positive rate) for each antibody isotype (Mire-Sluis AR et al., J Immunol Methods.
30  2004; 289:1-16). The ELISA A4 50 background for ERT-naYve Gaucher serum samples
    was calculated to be 0.040 for all anti-velaglucerase alfa antibody isotype assays. The
                                                  72

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    ELISA antibody positive cutoff was established as a ratio > 2.0 and an A4 50 > 0.040,
    where ratio is the A 450 of a patient sample taken at any time point, divided by the A 45 0 of
    the patient sample taken at baseline prior to the first ERT treatment. Any sample
    exceeding the ELISA positive cutoff would have been confirmed by a quantitative
  5 radioimmunoprecipitation assay and tested for neutralizing antibodies; however no
    sample achieved the established cutoff criteria (Mire-Sluis AR et al., J Immunol Methods.
    2004; 289:1-16).
             Clinical Activity: The main efficacy assessments of hemoglobin concentration
 I0 and platelet counts were evaluated at pre-determined tri-monthly intervals. Liver and
    spleen volumes were measured using quantitative abdominal MRI (on the same model
    apparatus) performed at baseline, six- and nine-months (at the Hadassah-Hebrew
    University Medical Center), and at 24, 33, and 45 months (at the MOR-MAR Imaging
    unit) during the extension study. Liver and spleen volumes were assessed at the end of
 15 the trial by a radiologist blinded to the patient's identity and the sequence by which the
    quantitative abdominal MRIs were performed. Chitotriosidase and CCL1 8 were
    measured at the Academic Medical Center; Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
             Statistical Analysis: The safety population, which was also the intent-to-treat
 ?o population, was defined as all enrolled patients receiving at least one infusion (partial or
    full) of velaglucerase alfa, and was used for all clinical activities. No imputation was
    utilized.
             For the primary clinical activity parameters of hemoglobin concentration, platelet
    count, and liver and spleen volumes, the null hypothesis is that there is no difference
25  between the baseline value and end-of-the study value (nine months), and baseline value
    and end-of-48 month value. (i.e., the difference between the members of each pair of
    observation has median value zero.) Comparisons were performed using two-tailed
    hypothesis testing at the 5% level of significance. Differences between baseline and end
    of period values were analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Changes from
30  baseline were calculated and the percentage changes from baseline are summarized using
    descriptive statistics.
                                                   73

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             For secondary clinical activity parameters, observed data, change from baseline,
    and percent change from baseline were summarized by visit including mean, standard
    error (SE) and median. No formal statistical testing was applied to these data sets.
  5 Results from TKTO25 study (9M, 60 U/kg velaglucerasealfa)
             Velaglucerase alfa was well tolerated and no patient developed antibodies.
    Clinically and statistically significant improvements in hematological parameters and
    organ volumes were observed as early as 3 to 6 months (Table 1).
 I0          Table 1 TKT025 Clinical Results (N=12)
                   .c                     Median Mean Change from Baseline  standard deviation
              Clincal Activity            Bsln
                                          Baseline
                  Parameter                Value       Month 3        Month 6          Month 9
     Hemoglobin concentration (g/dL)       10.95      1.24  0.90    1.92  0.82      2.24  0.89
           Platelet count (x 10 9/L)        57.5      8.9  11.20   23.4  24.63     40.6  30.68
          Liver (% of body weight)          4.43          NA        -0.67  0.64     -0.79  0.48
         Spleen (% of body weight)          3.63          NA        -1.62 0.67      -1.89 0.75
            Demographics and disposition: A total of thirteen patients were screened and all
    consented to participate in this study; one patient (0004) was excluded because of
    imiglucerase antibodies. All the patients were treatment-nave at advent according to the
15  protocol by virtue of not having been exposed to any Gaucher-specific therapy in the 12
    months prior to enrolment although in the more distant past, 2 patients (0008 and 0009)
    had each received 3 infusions of imiglucerase, one patient (0003) had been exposed to
    miglustat, and two patients (0005 and 0007) had been exposed to both miglustat and
    imiglucerase.
20           The intent-to-treat population (Table 2) included twelve patients who received at
    least one dose of velaglucerase alfa; of these, 11 patients (92%) completed the Phase 1/11
    study (one patient, 0006, withdrew after a sudden death in the family withdrew consent
    after receiving three infusions).
                                                   74

   WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
          At enrollment of the Phase 1/11 trial, seven patients (58%) were female; mean age
  was 41.7 (SD17.3; range 19-70) years; mean weight was 59.6 (SD9.1 range 50-73) kg
  and mean height was 169 (SD8.0; range 160-184) cm. Two patients (16.7%) had
  avascular necrosis (AVN) of the hip joint at enrollment and another had a destructive
5 lesion in each ankle. Table 2 provides the demographic, genotypic, and clinical
  characteristics at baseline, as well as the clinical findings of each intent-to-treat patient at
  key data collection points within the Phase 1/11 studies.
                                                  75

WO 2011/017177                                                                                                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
              V-,-   0co         c    "10       1 oc-ooo ,A 1:              0    0         ar
                 7a---------
              -i-oA6A
                    Oi-~~                           ~~~o-                                  o
                                                           CI~J AA                    0    0
                       --         -              -                      ---                    C)C)Cr0
                             -
                             o    - -               -o-            - -                                                                              m
            '       ooaoo                           o                 Coto
                                                                                                              c           .          I              S
                           ocon                                    ros         cnol        CI               -nco                 L                          &
                                                                                                                          u      -2CA
                                                    cinoro                                   n --                     -                                     dz
                                                  ~0N0O                             70N                                                             U
              Sn            100t    kn'cni                                              C)      00           -     cn -0       cn        cn; c0             eqr
           5 Q                l~                    Cf&r o               oom
                                                                         rl
                                                                          - ooo00N         0                   ur         o                  o
                                                                                                              dr                             o               U
                              71                                                                                          C)       q)
                                       ------------------------                                                     z          c
                                             inoina anioain                                i
                                             -- -             - -       -               -                               --        -0                         d
                                 Vct       00~~           C\00r-C)00CVC)                                                  u        -
                                                                                                                                   76t
                                                                                                                                 -_z
                    cf)~~-              c                                                                                  --
                                                                                                                          czd                  biD   U
        or         cen
                   S00CtnnfC
                            cr      ~                      cn
                                         a00 CAI4C-Vnac00a~~
                                                                             tnn
                                                                                                              cr
                                                                                                              d)
                                                                                                                            C)
                                                                                                                           V)
                                                                                                                                 Ic
                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                       -l
                                                                                                                                               kr
                       C-     A 0                                                                             CA         4
                                                                                                                   ->                              -o           )
                                                                                            0                              CA   )
                       cli~~C                                 AV         C                                    u           C        cC)                        -tV
    QA                      -     -      A      -   C            -   )C   4d      --   t    Zr     S          u           >                         0
                                                                                                                    UCA
       00-      -    - Cl -     -      -      -       -        -      -       -0-          -D                 C
                                                                                                                         LA
              .0                  md                                                                                          A        -m C               C-4
    d    00                       -o                      N,                                                       -~          -o       m- -o -        -       7s
 Ol                                                  ~ ~ ~                      t        ~                       r        C
                                                                                                                          uJ                        CA-i-
       o~c                                          C)fl                                                                                     C
                                                    C-                                C-                      d-          CA
      -n                                   -             --        --                   -                     C           0        o       -          C
                                                                                      0-0ol            or l
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                               l                                             d
                                                        C-~~~ l r-C                    l     l
                                          ~t                i         l~d                                                          d
                                                        clccfcflt-c                                                                                *IC-C-4
                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                76

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
            Results of liver and spleen magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were blinded
    and interpreted by a single reviewer to minimize bias. Collection of baseline data from
    other clinical parameters including PFTs (pulmonary function tests), MRI of the femora
    and lumbar spine, and bone densitometry were also performed at various time points
  5 throughout the study.
            The study was comprised of 2 phases, a dose escalation phase and a continuous
    dose phase. During the dose escalation phase, the first patient was enrolled and
    administered Intravenous (IV) velaglucerase alfa 15 U/kg, then was followed for 7 days
    for assessment of safety. After safety was confirmed for the first patient, 2 additional
 I0 patients were enrolled and administered IV velaglucerase alfa 15 U/kg and followed for 7
    days for assessment of safety. After safety was confirmed for all 3 patients who received
    the 15 U/kg dose, the next two higher doses (30 and 60 U/kg) were administered in the
    same fashion. Once safety was confirmed for all 3 patients, an additional 9 patients were
    enrolled and administered the 60 U/kg dose. All patients then received the 60 U/kg dose
 15 every other week for a total of 20 doses of velaglucerase alfa.
            Pharmacokinetics (PK) in humans were evaluated at Weeks 1, 3, 5, and 37/39 in
    TKT025. Additional PK studies were conducted at Week 65 of Study TKT025EXT.
    Velaglucerase alfa was rapidly cleared from blood with first-order elimination kinetics at
    each evaluation. Elimination half-life values for patients following initial exposure to
 ?o velaglucerase alfa and following repeat administration of velaglucerase alfa were similar.
    In contrast, clearance and apparent volume of distribution values were reduced following
    repeat administration of velaglucerase alfa.
            Statistically significant mean increases from baseline in hemoglobin concentration
    and platelet count were observed 3 months after initiation of biweekly dosing of 60U/kg
25  velaglucerase alfa in Study TKT025. By Week 25 (Month 6) in TKT025, mean
    hemoglobin concentrations were 13.57 g/dL (within normal range) and remained within
    normal ranges for the rest of the study. At the end of the study, 10 of 11 patients
    experienced normalization of hemoglobin concentration. Statistically significant
    increases from baseline (57.3 x 10 3 /mm 3) in mean platelet count were observed by Week
30  13 (Month 3) and continued throughout the study. At Week 37, mean platelet counts had
    increased to 98.1 x 10 3/mm 3.
                                                  77

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             Additionally, statistically significant reductions from baseline in mean and
    normalized (corrected by percentage of body weight) liver and spleen volumes were
    observed 6 (Week 25) and 9 months (Week 37) after initiating velaglucerase alfa
    treatment. Marked reductions in biomarker values (serum chitotriosidase and Chemokine
  5 (C-C motif) ligand 18 [CCL18]) were observed by Month 3. Overall, mean improvement
    in all of these parameters was continual during the course of velaglucerase alfa
    administration. Moreover, each patient experienced improvement in at least 2 of the 4
    therapeutic parameters specific for Gaucher disease (e.g., hemoglobin concentrations,
    platelet counts, and spleen and liver volumes).
 10          In summary, FIGS. 1A-IF presents the mean percent change in hematological
    parameters, organ volumes, and biomarkers for the Phase 1/11 study. A marked increase in
    (a) hemoglobin concentration and (b) platelet count is observed during weeks 25 and 37
    along with a marked reduction in (c) liver and (d) spleen volumes. Although biomarker
    sampling for (e) chitotriosidase and (f) CCL18 was incomplete, a general decrease in
 15 both biomarkers relative to baseline is observed per patient over time. Statistically
    significant improvements (p<0.003) were noted in the mean percent change from baseline
    to nine months for hemoglobin concentration (+21.7%), platelet counts (+67.6%),
    normalized liver volume (-18.2%), and normalized spleen volume (-49.5%), with
    statistically significant improvements from baseline in both hemoglobin concentration
 ?o and platelet counts achieved within the first 3 months (FIG. 2). In FIG. 2, the mean
    percent change in hemoglobin concentration, platelet counts, liver volume and spleen
    volume is plotted across time and demarcated for both the Phase 1/11 and extension
    studies. A statistically significant change from baseline is observed from baseline to 9
    months (p<0.003) for each parameter. The most marked changes were observed for
25  platelet count and spleen volume.
             In TKT025, all 12 patients experienced 1 or more AEs (Adverse events); in total,
    103 AEs were reported. Two AEs (dizziness and hyperhidrosis) were reported by 1
    patient during the 15 U/kg dose; the remaining 101 AEs were reported by patients
    receiving the 60 U/kg dose. The most frequently reported AEs were dizziness, bone pain,
30  and headache (5 patients each; 41.7%). Arthralgia, back pain, pain in the extremities,
    influenza, upper abdominal pain, and asthenia each occurred in 3 patients (25%). All
                                                     78

    WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
   AEs were mild (Grade 1) except 1 event of bone pain, which was of moderate (Grade 2)
   severity and unrelated to study drug. None of the 103 AEs was considered severe or life
   threatening (Grade 3 or 4). No patient was withdrawn from the study due to an adverse
   event.
 5         The majority of AEs observed during TKT025 were determined by the
   investigator as not related to administration of study drug (Table 3A). Ten (10) patients
   experienced 22 AEs that were considered possibly or probably related to study drug;
   most commonly dizziness (3 patients); back pain, bone pain, headache, increased body
   temperature, and nausea (each 2 patients). Nine (9) patients experienced a total of 17
10 infusion-related adverse events, which were defined in the protocol as an AE that
   occurred on the day of the infusion, began either during or after the infusion, and was
   judged as possibly or probably related to study drug. These AEs included dizziness,
   headache, back pain, bone pain, body temperature increased, each occurring in 2 patients.
   All infusion-related adverse events were reported for patients receiving the 60 U/kg dose.
15 One patient was dose-increased to 60 U/kg/infusion every-other-week 24 months
   following dose reduction because of worsening bone pain but experienced no relief
   following dose increase. Therefore, there was no drug-related serious adverse events,
   regardless of infusion setting. No pre-medications were administered and no patient
   withdrew due to an adverse event. No patient developed antibodies to velaglucerase alfa.
           Table 3A Treatment emergent adverse events determined to be possibly or
   probably related to velaglucerase alfa (GA-GCB) administration observed during the
   phase 1/11 Trial (TKT025)
   System Organ Class Preferred Term                        velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg EOW
                                                                      n = 12 patients
                                                           Patients, n (%)    Events, n (%)
   Any Adverse Event                                       10 (83.3)          22 (21.8)
   Nervous System Disorders
   Dizziness                                               3 (25.0)           4 (4.0)
   Headache                                                2 (16.7)           2 (2.0)
   Burning sensation                                       1 (8.3)            1 (1.0)
                                                 79

    WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
   Migraine                                                 1 (8.3)            3 (3.0)
   Tremor                                                   1 (8.3)            1(1.0)
   Gastrointestinal Disorders
   Nausea                                                  2 (16.7)            2 (2.0)
   Upper abdominal pain                                     1 (8.3)            1(1.0)
   Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders
   Back pain                                               2 (16.7)            2 (2.0)
   Bone pain                                               2(16.7)             2(2.0)
   Pain in extremity                                        1 (8.3)            1(1.0)
   General Disorders and Administration Site
   Conditions
   Asthenia                                                 1 (8.3)            1 (1.0)
   Investigations
   Body temperature increased                              2 (16.7)            2 (2.0)
           Percentages of patients are based on the total number of patients in the treatment
   group. Adverse events are coded using MedDRA Version 7.0 dictionary. EOW: every
   other week.
 5 Results from TKTO25EXT (Long-Term, 30-60 U/Kg VelagluceraseAlfa)
           Summary: TKT025EXT is an open-label extension study of velaglucerase alfa
   therapy in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease who completed study TKT025. The
   primary objective of TKT025EXT is to evaluate the long-term safety of velaglucerase
   alfa when administered IV at a dose of 30 or 60 U/kg every other week for a total of 4
10 years. The secondary objective is to continue to assess the effects of velaglucerase alfa
   on clinical activity in these patients as measured in hematological parameters and
   reductions in liver and spleen volumes. Plasma chitotriosidase and CCL18 as well as
   PFTs, MRI of the femoral neck and lumbar spine, skeletal survey, and bone densitometry
   are also being evaluated.
15         Ten patients were elected to participate in this clinical study. After 60 months of
   cumulative treatment (TKT025 + TKT025EXT) velaglucerase alfa was well tolerated and
   no patient developed antibodies. Continued and sustained clinically and statistically
                                                  80

      WO 2011/017177                                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    significant improvements in hematological parameters and organ volumes continue to be
    seen (Table 4). FIG. 3 shows the increase of mean hemoglobin concentration and
    platelet count from baseline in the patients treated with velaglucerase alfa for 60 months.
    FIG. 4 shows the decrease of mean liver and spleen volumes from baseline in patients
  5 treated with velaglucerase alfa for 60 months.
               Table 4 TKT025EXT Clinical Results (N=10)
                          Median                               Mean Change from Baseline
      Clinical Activity  Baseline                               [95% Confidence Interval]
         Parameter         Value
                                         Month 24             Month 36a            Month 48a            Month 60a
        Hemoglobin
       concentration       10.90     2.30 [1.78, 2.82]     2.13 [1.59, 2.67]    2.31 [1.66, 2.96]    2.38 [1.60, 3.16]
            (g/dL)
      Platelet count (x
                                     66.5 [45.3, 87.7]     71.1 [53.6, 88.6]   82.3 [60.1, 104.5]   85.1 [59.8, 110.4]
            109/)          55.5
     Liver (% of body
                           4.40     -1.29 [-1.91, -0.67] -1.37 [-1.90, -0.84] -1.74 [-2.40, -1.08] -1.70 [-2.33, -1.07]
           weight)
     Spleen (% of body
                           3.80     -2.63 [-3.44, -1.83] -2.69 [-3.51, -1.87] -2.88 [-3.72, -2.03] -2.89 [-3.72, -2.06]
           weight)
               a - Organ volumes were assessed at Months 33, 45 and 57 from the start of
    TKT025
 I0
               Demographics and disposition: Upon completion of Week 41 evaluations in
    TKT025, patients were eligible to participate in TKT025EXT. Of the 11 patients who
    completed Study TKT025, 10 patients entered Study TKT025EXT. One patient (0012)
    did not consent to enter the extension study because of the inconvenience of every-other
15  week hospital attendance, and one patient (0005) withdrew from the extension study
    because of pregnancy. Table 2 provides the demographic, genotypic, and clinical
    characteristics at baseline, as well as the clinical findings of each intent-to-treat patient at
    key data collection points within the extension studies.
20             All patients enrolled initially received velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg every other
    week. Doses were titrated down to 30 U/kg provided patients had improvements in
                                                          81

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    hematological parameters (hemoglobin concentration or platelet levels) and/or
    improvements in organ volumes (liver or spleen) after 1 year of cumulative treatment.
    All 10 patients initially enrolled in TKT025EXT met the required dose reduction criteria
    and were transitioned to the 30 U/kg dose.
  5          All 9 patients in TKT025EXT had hemoglobin concentration and platelet count
    data available up to Month 42, while 3 patients had data available up to Month 45. The
    mean (standard error [SE]) changes in hemoglobin from pretreatment baseline at 42
    months were 2.18 (0.25) g/dL (p = 0.004), corresponding to a mean percent changes from
    pretreatment baseline of 19.0%. With respect to platelet count, the mean (SE) change
 10 from pretreatment baseline was 82.1 (8.4) x 103/mm 3 (p = 0.004) at Month 42,
    corresponding to a mean percent change from pretreatment baseline of 149.8%.
             Liver and spleen volumes normalized for percent of body weight were analyzed
    through Month 33; all 9 patients had liver data available and 8 patients had spleen data
    available for this assessment. The mean (SE) change from pretreatment baseline in
 15 normalized liver and spleen volumes at Month 33 was -1.5 (0.22) and -2.8 (0.37),
    respectively. The results corresponded to -34.0% and -73.5% mean percent changes from
    pretreatment baseline for normalized liver and spleen volumes, (p = 0.004 and p = 0.008,
    respectively). Further improvements were also observed for both plasma chitotriosidase
    and CCL18 parameters.
 ?o          In summary, FIG. 2 presents the mean percent change in hemoglobin
    concentration, platelet counts, liver volume and spleen volume that is plotted across time
    and demarcated for the extension studies. A statistically significant change is observed
    from baseline to 48 months (p<0.004) for each parameter. The most marked changes
    were observed for platelet count and spleen volume. Hemoglobin values normalized for
25  all patients by 24 months. Liver volumes approached normal. Continuous improvement
    in these clinical parameters was noted throughout the extension study (FIG. 2) and
    normalization of hemoglobin was observed in all patients by 24 months (Table 2). The
    mean percent change from baseline to 48 months was statistically significant (p<0.004)
    for hemoglobin concentration (+21.7%), platelet counts (+157.8%), liver volume (
30  42.8%), and spleen volume (-79.3%).
                                                 82

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
            Safety and clinical activity data for Study TKT025EXT available up to a certain
    date were analyzed. Patients enrolled in this study had a cumulative mean duration of
    exposure of 43.2 months (range: 13.2-45.0 months). A total of 248 adverse events were
    reported among all 10 patients enrolled. The majority of AEs were mild to moderate in
  5 severity. Three severe (Grade 3) adverse events, considered unrelated to study drug by
    the Investigator, were reported for 2 patients (arthralgia and aseptic necrosis bone in 1
    patient, and headache in 1 patient). Three (3) SAEs have been reported (2 events of
    aseptic bone necrosis in 1 patient, and 1 event of scar in 1 patient). Each of these SAEs
    was considered unrelated to study drug by the Investigator, and each resolved without
 I0 sequelae. The most frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events were
    influenza (8 patients, 24 events); arthralgia (8 patients, 21 events); headache (6 patients,
    13 events); back pain (6 patients, 10 events); pharyngolaryngeal pain (5 patients, 7
    events); abdominal pain upper (5 patients, 7 events); and gingival bleeding, pyrexia and
    fatigue (each 4 patients, 4 events).
 15         The majority of adverse events reported in TKT025EXT were considered by the
    Investigator to be unrelated to study drug (Table 3B). A total of 7 treatment-related
    adverse events were reported in 4 patients, including epistaxis (2 patients, 1 event each)
    abdominal pain (1 patient, 1 event), abdominal pain upper (1 patient, 1 event), fatigue (1
    patient, 1 event), and pain exacerbated (1 patient, 1 event). Two patients experienced 1
 ?o infusion-related AE each: moderate (Grade 2) pain in extremity in 1 patient, and mild
    (Grade 1) tremor in 1 patient. Therefore, there was no drug-related serious adverse
    events regardless of infusion setting. In addition, no patient had an infusion-related
    adverse event requiring interruption of administration of velaglucerase alfa.
            No patient developed antibodies to velaglucerase alfa. During the first year of the
25  extension study all seven residents of Israel were successfully transitioned to home
    therapy.
            Table 3B Treatment emergent adverse events determined to be possibly or
    probably related to velaglucerase alfa (GA-GCB) administration observed during the
30  extension study (TKT025 EXT)
                                                   83

    WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
   System organ class preferred term                         velaglucerase alfa 30 U/kg - 60
                                                                        U/kg EOW
                                                            Patients, n (%)    Events, n (%)
                                                            N=10               N=311
   Any Related Adverse Event                                4 (40.0)           7 (2.8)
   Nervous System Disorders
   Tremors                                                  1 (10.0)           1 (0.32)
   Respiratory, Thoracic or Mediastinal disorders
   Epistaxis                                                2 (20.0)           2 (0.6)
   Gastrointestinal Disorders
   Abdominal pain                                           2 (20.0)           2 (0.6)
   Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders
   Pain in extremity                                        1 (10.0)           1 (0.3)
   General Disorders and Administration Site
   Conditions
   Fatigue                                                  1 (10.0)           1 (0.3)
           Percentages of patients are based on the total number of patients in the safety
   population. Percentages of events are based on the total number of events experienced by
   patients in the safety population. Adverse events are coded using MedDRA Version 9.0
 5 dictionary. EOW: every other week.
   Results of bone mineral density in Type 1 Gaucher diseasepatients in TKTO25 and
   TKTO25EXT
           Long term bone mineral density (BMD) changes were evaluated in Type 1
10 Gaucher disease patients treated with velaglucerase alfa. Patients demonstrated
   significant and continuous improvement in BMD.
           Assessments: During TKT025 enrollment, skeletal surveys and dual energy X-ray
15 absorptiometry (DEXA) were used to evaluate skeletal pathology. Z-scores of the lumbar
                                                84

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    spine and femoral neck were analyzed at predefined times throughout the study. For
    some patients, DEXA scans were performed, but Z-scores could not be assessed from the
    scans. Missing Z-scores included: one patient - femoral neck at baseline and Month 9;
    one patient - lumbar spine at baseline; and one patient - femoral neck at Month 9.
  5 Lumbar spine and femoral neck Z-scores were also not evaluated for two patients after
    they withdrew from the study: one patient before Month 24 and one patient before Month
    57.
            T-scores were used to compare bone density to a "young, normal" healthy 30
    year-old adult with peak bone density. Clinical bone status at baseline and 69 months
 10 was characterized according to the WHO criteria for T-scores: > -1 is normal; > -2.5 and
    < -1 is osteopenia; < -2.5 is osteoporosis.
            Methods:
            Analysis population: The primary analysis was conducted in the intent-to-treat
 15 (ITT) population (N=10), defined as all patients who signed the informed consent to
    participate in the long-term extension study and received    1 full or partial dose of
    velaglucerase alfa. The effect of velaglucerase alfa on BMD was also assessed in
    subgroups who did or did not receive bisphosphonates concomitant with ERT.
 ?0         Statistical methodology: Missing baseline Z-scores were replaced with the next
    value. Last observation carried forward (LOCF) analysis was used for subsequent
    missing Z-scores. Linear mixed models were used as a repeated measures analysis to
    analyze Z- scores over time. The y-intercept and the slope estimate, showing the annual
    increase in Z-score units, are displayed. A shift from osteoporosis to osteopenia or
25  normal, and from osteopenia to normal was recorded and reported.
            Results:
            Baseline characteristics: All patients enrolled in TKT025EXT had GD1-related
    bone pathology. Clinical status of lumber spine (LS) bone pathology was: 1 patient
30  (10%) was in the normal range; 8 patients (80%) had osteopenia; and 1 patient (10%) had
    osteoporosis. Clinical status of femoral neck (FN) bone pathology was: 1 patient (10%)
                                                   85

    WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
   was in the normal range; 5 patients (50%) had osteopenia; and 4 patients (40%) patients
   had osteoporosis. DXA Z-scores were (median [range]): LS, -1.8 [-2.9 to -0.4], FN -1.5
   [-2.9 to -0.2]. Through 69 months the average velaglucerase alfa dose was 40 U/kg.
   Four of ten patients were also treated with bisphosphonates.
5
           Z-scores: Z-scores at baseline and various timepoints for ITT population (n=10),
   patients who received concomitant bisphosphonates, and patients who did not received
   bisphosphonates are shown in Tables 5-7, respectively. Temporal changes in mean Z
   scores of lumber spine and femoral neck are also shown in FIGs. 5 and 6, respectively.
10
           Table 5 Z-scores; N=10, ITT
                                               Z-Scores
             Time              Lumbar Spine                  Femur
                               Mean [95% CI]             Mean [95% CI]
           Baseline         -1.59 [-2.17, -1.01]     -1.46   [-2.11, -0.81]
           Month 9          -1.50 [-2.05, -0.95]     -1.39   [-2.06, -0.72]
           Month 24         -1.20 [-1.80, -0.60]     -1.23   [-2.04, -0.42]
           Month 33         -1.16 [-1.80, -0.52]     -1.07   [-1.82, -0.32]
           Month 45         -1.12 [-1.72, -0.52]     -1.14   [-1.86, -0.42]
           Month 57         -1.07 [-1.68, -0.46]     -1.10   [-1.89, -0.31]
           Month 69         -0.91 [-1.55, -0.27]     -1.06   [-1.83, -0.29]
           Table 6 Z-scores; n=4 [with bisphosphonates]
                                               Z-Scores
             Time              Lumbar Spine                  Femur
                               Mean [95% CI]             Mean [95% CI]
           Baseline         -1.88   [-3.25, -0.50]    -1.70   [-3.13, -0.27]
          Month 9           -1.90   [-3.14, -0.66]    -1.68   [-3.15, -0.20]
          Month 24          -1.78   [-2.89, -0.66]     -1.75   [-3.52, 0.02]
          Month 33          -1.68   [-3.14, -0.21]     -1.45   [-3.19, 0.29]
          Month 45          -1.60   [-2.74, -0.46]     -1.48   [-3.23, 0.28]
          Month 57          -1.50   [-2.96, -0.04]     -1.40   [-3.25, 0.45]
          Month 69           -1.23   [-2.78, 0.33]     -1.48   [-3.22, 0.27]
                                                  86

   WO 2011/017177                                                                 PCT/US2010/043586
         Table 7 Z-scores; n=6 [no bisphosphonates]
                                                Z-Scores
                              Lumbar Spine                     Femur
           Time
                              Mean [95% CI]              Mean [95% CI]
         Baseline          -1.40    [-2.22, -0.58]    -1.30     [-2.30, -0.30]
         Month 9           -1.23    [-1.97, -0.50]    -1.20     [-2.22, -0.18]
        Month 24           -0.82    [-1.57, -0.06]     -0.88    [-2.03, 0.26]
        Month 33           -0.82    [-1.62, -0.02]     -0.82    [-1.91, 0.28]
        Month 45            -0.80    [-1.64, 0.04]     -0.92    [-1.95, 0.11]
        Month 57           -0.78    [-1.55, -0.01]     -0.90    [-2.07, 0.27]
        Month 69            -0.70    [-1.61, 0.21]     -0.78    [-1.91, 0.34]
         Changes in Z-scores of lumbar spine (LS) and femoral neck (FN) from baseline
5 Z-scores during a course of 69 months are shown in Table 8.
         Table 8
                  No bisphosphonates Bisphosphonates*                    ITT Population
    Scheduled
                            n=6                       n=4                      N=10
       visit
                    Lumbar Spine Change From Baseline Z-scores (95% CI)
  Month   9       0.17   (-0.03, 0.36)       -0.03   (-0.18, 0.13)      0.09   (-0.04, 0.22)
  Month   24      0.58   (0.08, 1.09)        0.10   (-0.27, 0.47)       0.39   (0.06, 0.72)
  Month   33      0.58   (-0.06, 1.22)       0.20   (-0.14, 0.54)       0.43   (0.06, 0.80)
  Month   45      0.60   (0.03, 1.17)        0.28   (-0.12, 0.67)       0.47   (0.14, 0.80)
  Month   57      0.62   (0.05, 1.18)        0.38   (-0.04, 0.79)       0.52   (0.20, 0.84)
  Month   69      0.70   (0.16, 1.24)        0.65   (-0.04, 1.34)       0.68   (0.35, 1.01)
                     Femoral Neck Change From Baseline Z-scores (95% CI)
  Month 9         0.10 (-0.03, 0.23)         0.03 (-0.18, 0.23)         0.07 (-0.02, 0.16)
  Month 24        0.42 (-0.04, 0.87)         -0.05 (-0.47, 0.37)        0.23 (-0.08, 0.54)
  Month   33      0.48   (0.10,  0.87)       0.25   (-0.13,  0.63)      0.39   (0.16, 0.62)
  Month   45      0.38   (0.18,  0.59)       0.23   (-0.15,  0.60)      0.32   (0.17, 0.47)
  Month   57      0.40   (0.06,  0.74)       0.30   (-0.20,  0.80)      0.36   (0.14, 0.58)
  Month   69      0.52   (0.22,  0.81)       0.23   (-0.25,  0.70)      0.40   (0.18, 0.62)
         P 0.05 vs baseline value
                                                  87

     WO 2011/017177                                                        PCT/US2010/043586
            As shown in Table 8, BMD for the intent-to-treat population improved
    significantly by Months 24 (LS: 0.39 (0.06, 0.72)) and Months 33 (FN: 0.39 (0.16, 0.62).
    BMD for the patients who did not receive concomitant bisphosphonates improved
    significant by Months 24 (LS: 0.58 (0.08, 1.09)) and Months 33 (FN: 0.48 (0.10, 0.87)).
  5
            Linear mixed model estimated Z-scores: Z-scores (ITT population, n=10, 95% CI)
    were significantly lower than the reference population (LS y-intercept = -1.56 [-2.09,
    1.03]; P<0.0001) and FN (y-intercept = -1.42 [-2.06, -0.79]; P=0.0007). Both
    parameters improved significantly over time (LS slope per month = +0.011 [0.005,
 10 0.017], P=0.0021 (slope +0.011 Z-score units/month corresponds to +0.132/year); FN
    slope per month =+0.007 [0.004, 0.009], P=0.0005 (slope +0.007 Z-score units/month
    corresponds to +0.084/year)).
            Among patients who only received velaglucerase alfa (n=6, 95% CI), the Z-score
    LS y-intercept was -1.29 [-1.97, -0.62] (P= 0.0045), FN y-intercept was -1.24 [-2.21,
 15 0.27] (P=0.0216) and significant improvement was seen over time [LS slope per month =
    +0.013 [0.002, 0.024] (P=0.028) (corresponds to +0.158 per year), FN slope per month =
    +0.009 [0.004, 0.013] (P=0.0055) (corresponds to +0.103 per year).
            Among patients who received bisphosphonates concomitantly (n=4, 95% CI), the
    Z-score LS y-intercept was -1.97 [-3.06, -0.88] (P= 0.0104), FN y-intercept was -1.71  [
 ?0 3.02, -0.40] (P=0.0252) and improvement was seen over time [LS slope per month =
    +0.009 [0.001, 0.017] (P=0.0351) (corresponds to +0.111 per year), FN slope per month
      +0.004 [-0.001, 0.010] (P=0.0867) (corresponds to +0.048 per year).
            In a linear mixed model based upon an analysis of an observational database
    (International Collaborative Gaucher Group Gaucher Registry), GD 1 patients treated with
25  the ERT imiglucerase had significantly lower Z-scores than the reference population at
    the start of follow-up (n=340, Y-intercept -1.17, P<0.001) (Wenstrup et al. J Bone Min
    Res. 2007; 22: 119-26). However, a dose-response improvement was observed in Z
    score slopes per year (15 U/kg [n=113]: +0.064; 30 U/kg [n=116]: +0.086; 60 U/kg
    [n=111]: +0.132; all P<0.001) (Wenstrup et al. JBone Min Res. 2007; 22: 119-26).
30
                                                 88

     WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
            BMD status at baseline and 69 months: Clinical bone status at baseline and 69
    months was characterized using WHO criteria (normal = T-scores: > -1; osteopenia = T
    score > -2.5 and < -1; osteoporosis = T-score < -2.5). Status change was observed in
    patients who received velaglucerase alfa without concomitant bisphosphonates (n=6). By
  5 69 months, two LS and one FN osteopenic patients normalized and one FN osteoporotic
    patient became osteopenic. All four patients on bisphosphonates had no change in WHO
    category.
            Repeated measures analysis (longitudinal) slope estimates: In the repeated
 10 measures analysis, Z-score estimates [95% CI] for ITT population (N=10) were: LS
    intercept = -1.56 [-2.09, -1.03], P<0.0001;LS slope (per month) = 0.011 [0.005, 0.017],
    P=0.0021; FN intercept = -1.42 [-2.06, -0.79], P=0.0007; LS slope (per month) = 0.007
    [0.004, 0.009], P=0.0005. A lumbar spine slope of 0.011 increases per month
    corresponds to a 0.132 increase per year, and a femoral neck slope of 0.007 increase per
 15 month corresponds to a 0.084 increase per year.
            Z-score estimates [95% CI] for patients who did not receive bisphosphanates
    (N=6) were: LS intercept = -1.29 [-1.97, -0.62], P=0.0045;LS slope (per month) = 0.013
    [0.002, 0.024], P=0.0280; FN intercept = -1.24 [-2.21, -0.27], P=0.0216; LS slope (per
    month) = 0.009 [0.004, 0.013], P=0.0055. A lumbar spine slope of 0.013 increase per
 ?o month corresponds to a 0.158 increase per year, and a femoral neck slope of 0.009
    increase per month corresponds to a 0.103 increase per year.
            Z-score estimates [95% CI] for patients who received bisphosphanates (N=4)
    were: LS intercept = -1.97 [-3.06, -0.88], P=0.0104; LS slope (per month) = 0.009
    [0.001, 0.017], P=0.0351; FN intercept = -1.71 [-3.02, -0.40], P=0.0252; LS slope (per
25  month) = 0.004 [-0.001, 0.010], P=0.0867. A lumbar spine slope of 0.009 increase per
    month corresponds to a 0.111 increase per year, and a femoral neck slope of 0.004
    increase per month corresponds to a 0.048 increase per year.
            The statistical model used all available data and no data imputation was used.
30          Conclusions: In patients with Gaucher disease and baseline
    osteopenia/osteoporosis who were treated with velaglucerase alfa, BMD improved in
                                                  89

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    both lumbar spine (Month 24) and femoral neck (Month 36). Since the velaglucerase alfa
    dose was reduced from 60 to 30 unit/kg/infusion during Year 2, the improvement in bone
    pathology was not dependent upon continuous high-dose therapy.
  5 Achievement of long-term therapeuticgoals
            Therapeutic goals have been described to monitor achievement, maintenance and
    continuity of therapeutic response in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease receiving ERT
    (Pastores G et al., (2004) Seminars in Hematology, 41 (suppl 5): 4-14)
            To benchmark the impact of velaglucerase alfa treatment against therapeutic goals
 I0 for 5 key clinical parameters of type 1 Gaucher disease (anemia, thrombocytopenia,
    hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and skeletal pathology), the proportion of patients at goal
    for anemia, thrombocytopenia, hepatomegaly and splenomegaly at baseline was
    compared with the proportion achieving each of these goals at 4 years. Complete data for
    anemia, thrombocytopenia, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and skeletal pathology at
 15 baseline and 4 years are available for 8 patients (3 male, 5 female). The proportion
    achieving the skeletal pathology goal at 4 years was determined on the basis of Z-score
    improvement from baseline to 4 years. In addition, the proportion of patients who
    achieved all 5 goals at 4 years was compared with the proportion at goal for all 5
    parameters at baseline.
 ?0         At baseline, no patient was at goal for all clinical parameters (Table 9). After 1
    year of treatment, all patients maintained goals present at baseline, and all achieved >2
    goals. All 8 patients began step-wise dose reduction to velaglucerase alfa 30 U/kg EOW
    between 15 and 18 months. By year 4 of treatment, all patients met goal for all 5 clinical
    parameters; therefore, 100% achievement was seen for each of the 5 long-term,
25  therapeutic goals (Table 9).
            Table 9
                                              Baseline              Year 4
              Anemia                          4/8 (50%)              8/8 (100%)
              Thrombocytopenia                0/8 (0%)               8/8 (100%)
              Hepatomegaly                    4/8 (50%)              8/8 (100%)
                                                  90

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
              Splenomegaly                     0/8 (0%)              8/8 (100%)
              Skeletal pathology               -----------           8/8 (100%)
              All 5 goals                      0/8(0%)               8/8(100%)
            Skeletal pathology was measured as improvement in bone mineral density (BMD)
    at year 4 relative to baseline.
            In this velaglucerase alfa Phase 1/11 and extension study, clinically meaningful
  5 achievement of each long-term, therapeutic goal was observed for each patient, despite
    dose reduction after 1 year. This is the first report of a cohort where all patients receiving
    ERT for type 1 Gaucher disease achieved all 5 of these long-term, therapeutic goals
    within 4 years of starting treatment.
 l0 Summary of Results from TKTO25 and TKTO25EXT
            The findings reported herein demonstrate that adverse events associated with
    velaglucerase alfa were generally mild in severity and were mostly unrelated to therapy.
    Treatment-emergent adverse events were mild to moderate and were mostly not drug
    related. No patient enrolled in these studies developed antibodies, no drug related serious
 15 adverse events were observed regardless of infusion setting or duration of exposure, and
    no patient withdrew from the study because of adverse events. Following an initial
    period of observation at the study site, eligible patients were successfully transitioned to
    home-based, nurse-administered velaglucerase alfa.
            Velaglucerase alfa demonstrated efficacy in the four disease parameters studied
20  with statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvements from baseline
    observed within the first six months of treatment and throughout the course of the trial
    and extension study. Within 24 months of initiation of therapy, all patients achieved
    normalization of hemoglobin level, all but one patient achieved platelet counts of greater
    than 100,000/mm 3, all patients achieved near normalization in liver volumes, and all
25  patients but one exhibited a reduction of more than 50% in spleen volume. Moreover,
    these improvements were observed throughout the duration of the studies, including the
    dose-reduction phase. The only patient who was returned to the original dose of
    60U/kg/every-other-week did so at 39 months secondary to bone pain following an initial
                                                     91

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    dose reduction at 15 months. This patient had boney destructive lesions in both her
    ankles at enrollment (imaging pathology could not rule out AVN) and had a prior history
    of osteomyelitis. The principle investigator (AZ) attributed the worsening pain to the
    preexisting destructive lesion and prior pathology, and likely not related to the dose
  5 reduction or treatment failure.
            The observed safety profile including the transition to home treatment and the
    significant changes observed in the clinical parameters despite dose reduction, have led to
    further three subsequent Phase III trials for velaglucerase alfa (which allowed children),
    as well as a global early access program, and an FDA-accepted treatment protocol.
 10
    Example 2: TKT032 Study (12M, 45 or 60 U/kg velaglucerase alfa)
    Example 2.1: Summary
            This example describes a global, multicenter trial to evaluate the efficacy and
    safety of velaglucerase alfa in type 1 GD. Twenty-five treatment-naive, anemic, type 1
 15 GD patients (age 4-62 years) were randomized to intravenous velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg
    (n=12) or 45 U/kg (n=13) every other week for 12 months.
            Patients were randomized in 1:1 ratio to receive 45 U/kg (N=13) or 60 U/kg
    (N=12) velaglucerase alfa. Stratification factors included age (2-17; > 18) and gender
    (male; female). The baseline characteristics of the patients are listed in Table 10.
 ?o Clinically and statistically significant improvements in hematological parameters and
    spleen volumes were observed at 12 months (Table 11). FIGS. 7 and 8 show the
    increase of mean hemoglobin concentration and platelet count, respectively, from
    baseline in the patients treated with 45 U/kg or 60 U/kg velaglucerase alfa for 12 months.
    FIGS. 9 and 10 show the decrease of mean normalized spleen volume and liver volume,
25  respectively, from baseline in patients treated with 45 U/kg or 60 U/kg velaglucerase alfa
    for 12 months.
                                                   92

   WO 2011/017177                                                                    PCT/US2010/043586
          Table 10 TKT032 Baseline Characteristics
                                      Velaglucerase alfa      Velaglucerase alfa
                                           45 U/kg                 60 U/kg                   Total
           Baseline Factor                  N = 13                  N = 12                   N = 25
      2 to 17 years     n(%)                3(23.1)                4(33.3)                  7(28.0)
          2 to 4 years   n(%)                   0                   1(8.3)                   1(4.0)
          5 to 17 years n (%)               3 (23.1)               3 (25.0)                 6 (24.0)
      : 18 years        n (%)              10 (76.9)               8 (66.7)                 18 (72.0)
       Male             n(%)                8(61.5)                7(58.3)                  15(60.0)
       Female           n(%)               5(38.5)                 5(41.7)                  10(40.0)
  Hemoglobin concentration (g/dL)     10.90 [8.45, 12.85]     10.83 [7.05, 12.25]      10.85 [7.05, 12.85]
        Median [Min, Max]
      Platelet count (x 109/L)        58.00 [13.0, 264.0]     66.75 [47.0, 438.0]      65.50 [13.0, 438.0]
        Median [Min, Max]
          Table 11 TKT032 Clinical Results (N=25)
                                 Baseline             Mean Change
                              n   Median from Baseline to Month 12                   95% CI            P-value
  Primary Endpoint
  Hemoglobin 60 U/kg         12    10.83                   2.43                    [1.72, 3.14]       < 0.0001
  Secondary Endpoints
  Hemoglobin 45 U/kg         13    10.90                   2.44                    [1.49, 3.39]         0.0001
  Platelets 60 U/kg          12    66.75                  50.88                 [23.97, 77.78]          0.0016
  Platelets 45 U/kg          13    58.00                  40.92                 [11.20, 70.64]          0.0111
  Spleen 60 U/kg             12     2.80                  -1.92                  [-3.04, -0.79]         0.0032
  Spleen 45 U/kg             13     2.90                  -1.87                  [-3.17, -0.57]         0.0085
  Liver 60 U/kg              12     3.65                  -0.84                  [-1.58, -0.11]        0.0282a
  Liver 45 U/kg              13     3.50                  -0.30                   [-0.92, 0.32]         0.3149
5         a - Not statistically significant after adjusting for multiple testing.
                                                     93

    WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
           Velaglucerase alfa was well tolerated. One patient developed antibodies at the
   end of the study (12 months). Table 12 summarizes the results of TKT032 safety test.
           Table 12 TKT032 Safety
                                                                          Patients n(%)
                                                velaglucerase alfa velaglucerase alfa
                                                     45 U/kg             60 U/kg               Total
                    DESCRIPTION                        N = 13            N = 12               N = 25
   Experienced No Adverse Events                                      2(15.4)      0          2( 8.0)
   Experienced At Least 1 Adverse Event                               11(84.6)     12 (100.0) 23 (92.0)
   Experienced At Least 1 Drug-Related Adverse Event                  9 (69.2)     6 (50.0)   15 (60.0)
   Experienced At Least 1 Infusion-Related Adverse Event              8 (61.5)     6 (50.0)   14 (56.0)
   Experienced At Least 1 Severe Or Life-Threatening Adverse Event    2 (15.4)     0          2 ( 8.0)
   Experienced At Least 1 Serious Adverse Event                       0            1 ( 8.3)    1 ( 4.0)
   Discontinued Due To An Adverse Event                               0            0          0
   Deaths                                                             0            0          0
   Developed anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies                       1 (7.7)      0           1 (4.0)
 5
           At 12 months, mean hemoglobin concentration increased (60 U/kg: +23%;
   +2.4g/dL [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.5, 3.4; P<0. 001]; 45 U/kg: +24%; +2.4g/dL
   [95% CI: 1.5, 3.4;P<0.001]), as did mean platelet count (60 U/kg: +65.9%; +51x10 9/L
   [95% CI: 24, 78; P=0.002]; 45 U/kg: +66%; +41x10 9/L [95% CI: 11, 71; P=0.01]). Mean
10 spleen volume decreased (60 U/kg: -50% [95% CI: -62, -39%] from 14.0 to 5.8 multiples
   of normal [MN] [P=0.003]; 45 U/kg: -40% [95% CI: -52, -28%], from 14.5 to 9.5 MN
   [P=0.009]); as did mean liver volume (60 U/kg: -17% [95% CI: -27, -7%], from 1.5 to
   1.2 MN [P=0.03]; 45 U/kg: -6% [95% CI: -18, 6%], from 1.4 to 1.2 MN [P=0.32]. No
   drug-related serious adverse events or withdrawals were observed. One patient developed
15 antibodies.
                                                    94

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    Study Objectives
             The primary objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of every other
    week dosing of velaglucerase alfa at a dose of 60 U/kg in patients with type 1 Gaucher
  5 disease as measured by increases in hemoglobin concentration.
             The secondary objectives of this study are to evaluate the safety of every other
    week dosing of velaglucerase alfa at doses of 60 and 45 U/kg; to evaluate the efficacy of
    every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa at a dose of 45 U/kg as measured by
    increases in hemoglobin concentration; to evaluate the efficacy of every other week
 10 dosing of velaglucerase alfa at doses of 60 and 45 U/kg by assessing increases in platelet
    counts, decreases in spleen and liver volumes, and decreases in levels of plasma
    chitotriosidase and Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 18 (CCL18); to evaluate the effect of
    every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa at doses of 60 and 45 U/kg on overall
    quality of life (QoL); and to evaluate the single- and repeat-dose pharmacokinetics of
 15 every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa when administered at doses of 60 and 45
    U/kg.
             The tertiary objectives of this study are to determine the time from Baseline to
    achieve a hemoglobin response, defined as an increase in hemoglobin concentration of 2
    1g/dL, after every other week dosing with velaglucerase alfa at doses of 60 or 45 U/kg; to
 ?o evaluate the effect of every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa at doses of 60 and 45
    U/kg on pulmonary function tests (PFTs) in patients 2 18 years-old; to evaluate growth
    velocity and Tanner staging in patients between 2 and 17 years-old; to evaluate changes
    in skeletal age in patients between 2 and 17 years-old by radiography of the left hand and
    wrist; to establish a Baseline from which to evaluate bone disease in patients between 2
25  and 17 years-old by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine and femoral
    neck; and to establish a Baseline from which to evaluate the long-term effect of
    velaglucerase alfa therapy on Gaucher-related local and systemic bone disease in patients
    2 18 years-old by: DXA of the lumbar spine and femoral neck (including coronal
    imaging); and serum alkaline phosphatase, N-Telopeptide cross-links (NTx), and C
30  Telopeptide cross-links (CTx).
                                                    95

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    Overall Study Design
             This is a multicenter, Phase III randomized, double-blind, parallel group, 2-dose
    study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of velaglucerase alfa therapy for
    patients with type I Gaucher disease.
  5          This study was comprised of 5 phases as follows: (1) Screening: Day -21 through
    Day -4; Baseline: Day -3 through Day 0 (prior to first dose); Treatment Phase: Week 1
    (Day 1; first dose) through Week 51 (a total of 26 infusions were administered per
    patient); End of Study Visit: Week 53; Follow-up: 30 days after the final infusion (for
    patients who discontinue/withdraw prior to the Week 53 evaluation, or for patients who
 10 complete this study but do not elect to enroll in the subsequent long-term clinical study).
             At Screening, patients who provided written informed consent to participate in
    this study were reviewed against the study entrance criteria to determine study eligibility
    and underwent Screening evaluations. In particular, patients provided a blood sample to
    measure hemoglobin concentration. Only those patients who had a hemoglobin
 15 concentration that was at least 1 g/dL below the lower limit of normal for age and gender
    were eligible to continue into the baseline phase. For statistical analysis purposes, an
    additional blood sample was collected at screening for evaluation of hemoglobin
    concentration.
             Patients who were eligible for study participation after completing the Screening
 ?0 evaluations underwent Baseline procedures and evaluations (i.e., Days -3 to 0) prior to
    the first dose. To confirm that their hemoglobin concentration was at least 1 g/dL below
    the lower limit of normal for age and gender, patients provided a blood sample at
    Baseline. Hemoglobin concentration were analyzed and reported. Only those patients
    who had a hemoglobin concentration that was at least 1 g/dL below the lower limit of
25  normal for age and gender at both Screening and Baseline were eligible for
    randomization. For statistical analysis purposes, an additional blood sample was
    collected at Baseline for evaluation of hemoglobin concentrations. Additional Baseline
    procedures and evaluations were conducted prior to administration of the first dose.
             Following completion of Baseline evaluations and confirmation of eligibility,
30  patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg or
    velaglucerase alfa 45 U/kg via a computer generated randomization schedule.
                                                   96

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             Patients received a total of 26 IV infusions of double-blind study medications at
    the clinical site once every other week for a total of 51 weeks. Safety and efficacy
    assessments were made at regular intervals during the treatment period. The final
    assessments of safety and efficacy were made at the Week 51 and Week 53 visits.
  5 Safety was assessed throughout the study by assessments of adverse events (including
    infusion-related adverse events), concomitant medications, and vital signs. Additional
    safety assessments, including, 12-lead electrocardiograms, physical examinations,
    clinical laboratory tests (hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis), were made at
    Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53. Determination of the presence of anti-velaglucerase alfa
 I0 antibodies and enzyme neutralizing antibodies were conducted approximately every 6
    weeks until Week 53.
             Efficacy was assessed via hemoglobin concentration and platelet count, liver and
    spleen volume, and plasma chitotriosidase and CCL18 level. Additional efficacy
    assessments included growth velocity and Tanner staging, QoL indicators, skeletal
 15 growth and pulmonary function testing.
             Single-dose and repeat-dose velaglucerase alfa pharmacokinetic profiles were also
    evaluated during the study. Blood samples were collected at Week 1 (Day 1) and Week
    37, respectively, for these analyses.
             Patients who completed this study were provided the opportunity to enroll in a
 ?o subsequent long-term clinical study. For patients who elected to enroll in this long-term
    study, certain assessments from the Week 51 and the Week 53 visits in TKT032 were
    used as the Baseline assessments; patients received their first velaglucerase alfa infusion
    for the long-term clinical study at the Week 53 visit, after the Week 53 procedures
    scheduled for TKT032 were completed. Therefore, it was intended that patients would
25  receive continuous velaglucerase alfa treatment across the 2 studies. Patients who
    completed this study and did not elect to enroll in the subsequent long-term clinical study
    would have a safety evaluation by site visit or telephone 30 days after their last infusion
    of velaglucerase alfa.
30
                                                   97

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    Selection of Study Population
            Of 39 patients assessed, 14 were not eligible for randomization (12 did not meet
    inclusion criteria; 2 did not meet exclusion criteria). Twenty five participants were
    randomized to velaglucerase alfa at a dose of 45 U/kg (n=13) or 60 U/kg (n=12). All
  5 randomized patients who received at least 1 infusion (or partial infusion) were included
    in the intent-to-treat (ITT) patient population.
            Eligible participants were males or females age >2 years with diagnosed type 1
    Gaucher disease (deficient glucocerebrosidase activity in leukocytes, or by genotype
    analysis), and disease-related anemia (hemoglobin levels >1 g/dL below the local
 10 laboratory's lower limit of normal for age and gender). Participants also had 1 or more of
    the following: at least moderate splenomegaly (2 to 3 cm below the left costal margin) by
    palpation; disease-related thrombocytopenia (platelet count <90x10 3 platelets/mm 3); or
    readily palpable enlarged liver. Participants could not have received treatment for
    Gaucher disease within 30 months prior to study entry.
 15         Participants were excluded if they had a splenectomy; had (or were suspected of
    having) type 2 or 3 Gaucher disease; were antibody-positive or had experienced an
    anaphylactic shock to imiglucerase. Other exclusion criteria included treatment with any
    non-Gaucher disease-related investigational drug or device within 30 days prior to study
    entry; positive test for HIV, or hepatitis B or C; exacerbated anemia (vitamin B12, folic
 ?0 acid, or iron deficiency-related), or any significant co-morbidity that could affect study
    data. Pregnant or lactating women were excluded and women of child-bearing potential
    were required to use a medically acceptable method of contraception at all times.
    Study Treatments
25          Treatment Assignment: Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive:
    velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg every other week for 51 weeks (12 patients, 26 infusions); or
    velaglucerase alfa 45 U/kg every other week for 51 weeks (12 patients, 26 infusions).
            Randomization: Following the completion of Baseline evaluations and
30  confirmation of eligibility, patients were randomized in a ratio of 1:1 via a computer
                                                   98

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    generated randomization schedule to receive either velaglucerase alfa 45 U/kg or 60 U/kg
    every other week infusions for 51 weeks.
            The pursuit of balance on prognostic factors was important in small trials on the
    grounds of statistical efficiency for the primary analyses. To achieve this balance across a
  5 number of prognostic factors (e.g., age and gender) dynamic allocation techniques were
    used. For the dynamic randomization procedure, the allocation of patients was influenced
    by the current balance on the stratifying factors for the patient in question. This technique
    used the approach as suggested by Pocock and Simon and was very consistent with the
    guidance provided in ICH-9 (Pocock et al. Biometrics. 1975; 31:105-115).
 I0
            Treatment Schedule: Patients received their first infusion at Week 1. All patients
    were treated every other week for 12 months (51 weeks); therefore, a total of 26 infusions
    of velaglucerase alfa were administered.
 15         Dose Calculation: The actual dose of study drug was calculated based on the
    patient's weight at Baseline. A change in weight of > 5% noted at Weeks 13, 25, or 37
    from the prior assessment would have required recalculation of the dose of study
    medication.
 ?0          Velaglucerase alfa Administration: Velaglucerase alfa was administered as a
    continuous IV infusion at both the 60 and 45 U/kg dose levels. All infusions were
    administered over a 1-hour duration. All infusions were reconstituted in 4.3 mL of
    preservative-free, Sterile Water for Injection, and then diluted in normal saline (0.9%
    sodium chloride) to yield a 100 mL total volume. Study drug infusions occurred on
25  approximately the same day of the week but might occur every 14 days ( 3 days) of the
    scheduled day in order to facilitate patient scheduling.
    Study Procedures and Data Collection Methods
            Genotyping: All patients provided a blood sample at Screening for Gaucher
30  disease genotyping and plasma chitotriosidase genotyping.
                                                  99

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
            Medical History: At Screening, the patient's complete medical history was
    recorded. This included a review of body systems, documentation of current and prior
    medical procedures, and documentation of current and prior concomitant medication
    usage, and documentation that the patient had not been treated for Gaucher disease within
  5 the 30 months prior to study entry.
            Vital Signs: Vital signs parameters that were recorded included pulse, blood
    pressure, respiration rate, and temperature. The following schedule was followed for
    recording vital signs at infusion visits: start of infusion (within 10 minutes prior to
 10 starting the infusion), during infusion (30 minutes ( 5 minutes)), after infusion (within 5
    minutes, 30 minutes ( 5 minutes), and 60 minutes ( 5 minutes) after completing the
    infusion). At Screening, Baseline, and Week 53, vital signs were collected at one time
    point only.
 15         Physical Examinations: Physical examinations were performed at Screening,
    Baseline and at Study Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53. Physical examinations included the
    following: general appearance, endocrine, head and neck, cardiovascular, eyes, abdomen,
    ears, genitourinary, nose, skin, throat, musculoskeletal, chest and lungs, and neurological.
    In addition, liver and spleen palpations were performed during Screening to confirm that
 ?o the patient had moderate splenomegaly (2 to 3 cm below the left costal margin) and a
    Gaucher disease-related enlarged liver.
            Height and Weight: Height and weight were recorded at Baseline and at Study
    Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53.
25
            12-Lead Electrocardiograms: A 12-Lead ECG was performed at Baseline and
    Study Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53. Each 12-lead ECG included assessment of PR, QRS,
    QT, and QTc intervals, and heart rate.
                                                    100

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             Clinical Laboratory Testing: Blood and urine samples were collected as
    described below for clinical laboratory testing. All blood samples were collected via
    venipuncture.
  5          Hematology: Blood samples were collected at Screening, Baseline, and Weeks
    13, 25, 37, and 53 for complete hematology testing. The following hematology
    parameters were evaluated: complete blood count (CBC) with differential, activated
    partial thromboplastin time (aPPT), reticulocyte count (analyzed and reported by the
    clinical site's local laboratory), platelet count, and prothrombin time (PT). At Screening,
 10 Baseline, and at every study visit (except at the Week 1 visit), blood samples were
    collected to measure hemoglobin concentration and platelet count.
             Serum Chemistry: Blood samples were collected for serum chemistry testing at
    Screening, Baseline, and at Study Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53. The following serum
 15 chemistry parameters were evaluated: sodium, alanine aminotransferase, potassium,
    aspartate aminotransferase, glucose, lactate dehydrogenase, total calcium,
    gammaglutamyltransferase, total protein, creatinine phosphokinase, albumin, NTx*,
    creatinine, CTx*, urea nitrogen, folic acid (screening only), total bilirubin, vitamin B 12
    (screening only), alkaline phosphatase* (* results were used for assessments of bone
 ?0 biomarkers).
             Urinalysis: Urine samples were collected for urinalysis at Screening, Baseline,
    and at Study Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53. The following urinalysis parameters were
    evaluated: pH, macroscopic evaluation, microscopic evaluation.
25
             Serum Anti-imiglucerase Antibody Determination: All patients had a blood
    sample collected during Screening only for determination of serum anti-imiglucerase
    antibodies. Patients with a positive result were excluded from the study.
30           Serum Anti-velaglucerase alfa Antibody Determination: Patients provided blood
    samples to measure anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies in serum at Baseline and
                                                    101

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    approximately every 6 weeks during the treatment phase (Weeks 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 43,
    and 49), and at Week 53. During the treatment phase, these blood samples were collected
    prior to the infusion.
  5         Adverse Events: Adverse events were monitored throughout the study from
    informed consent/assent through 30 days after the last infusion for patients who
    completed the study and did not elect to enroll in the long-term clinical study from the
    study prior to the Week 53 visit. For patients who completed this study and elected to
    enroll in the long-term clinical study, adverse events were monitored from informed
 10 consent/assent through the Week 53 visit.
            Prior and Concomitant Illnesses: Additional illnesses present at Baseline were
    regarded as concomitant illnesses and were documented on the appropriate pages of the
    medical history CRF. Illnesses first occurring or detected during the study, or worsening
 15 of a concomitant illness during the study, were regarded as AEs and documented as such
    in the CRF.
            Liver and Spleen MRI: Patients had MRI of the liver and spleen at Baseline,
    Week 25 and Week 51. Liver and spleen size were measured using quantitative
 ?o abdominal MRI.
            Plasma Chitotriosidase Levels: Blood samples (approximately 2.5 mL) were
    collected for the evaluation of plasma chitotriosidase levels at Baseline, Weeks 13, 25,
    37, and at Week 53.
25
            Plasma CCL18 Levels: Blood samples (approximately 2.5 mL) were collected for
    the evaluation of plasma CCL18 levels at Baseline, Week 13, 25, 37 and at Week 53.
            Quality of Life Testing: At Baseline and at Week 53, patients' quality of life was
30  evaluated using validated questionnaires, including the Short Form 36 (SF-36), version 2
                                                  102

     WO 2011/017177                                                        PCT/US2010/043586
    (for patients 2 18 years-old) and the Childhood Health Questionnaire (CHQ), PF50 (for
    patients 5 to 17 years-old).
             Growth Velocity and Tanner Staging: For patients 2 to 17 years-old, growth was
  5 assessed at Baseline and Weeks 13, 25, 37, and 53. Growth velocity was calculated using
    height and weight measurements, recorded at regular time points during this study.
    Growth rates of patients in this study were measured against growth rates for normal
    individuals of comparable ages obtained from the Centers for Disease Control and
    Prevention height and weight data. Tanner stage was recorded at Baseline and Weeks 13,
 10 25, 37, and 53.
             Skeletal Growth: Patients between 2 and 17 years-old underwent radiography of
    the left hand and wrist at Baseline and Week 51 for evaluation of skeletal age.
 15          Pulmonary Function Testing: At Baseline and Week 53, patients 218 years-old
    who were enrolled at study sites with the capability to perform spirometry had PFTs.
             Spirometry was performed according to the guidelines published by the American
    Thoracic Society or European Respiratory Society for standardization of spirometry
    (American Thoracic Society. Standardization of Spirometry. Am JRespir Crit Care Med.
 ?0 1995; 152:1107-1136; Quanjer et al. Eur Respir J. 1993; 16(Suppl):5-40) Both Forced
    Vital Capacity (FVC) and Forced Expiratory Volume/second (FEVI) were expressed as
    absolute values and % predicted of normal, which were calculated based on published
    reference values for adults (Hankinson et al. Am J Respir. Crit Care Med. 1999; 159:179
    187). Current standing height was used for the calculations.
25           Lung volume and Diffusion Capacity (DLco) determinations were performed at
    the same time as spirometric testing. Lung volume measurements were include Total
    Lung Capacity (TLC), and Residual Volume (RV), which were recorded as absolute
    values and % predicted of normal based on published reference values. DLco was also
    expressed as absolute values and % predicted of normal based on published reference
30  values.
                                                 103

      WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
            Pharmacokinetic Evaluations: For patients 2 18 years-old, blood samples were
    collected at the following times at Week 1 (Day 1) and Week 37: immediately before first
    dose, during infusion (sample collected at 5, 10, 15, 20, 40 and 60 (end of infusion)
    minutes), and after infusion (sample collected at 65, 70, 80, 90, 105 and 120 minutes).
  5          For patients 2 to 17 years-old, blood samples were collected at the following
    times at Week 1 (Day 1) and Week 37: immediately before first dose, during infusion
    (sample collected at 10, 20, 40 and 60 (end of infusion) minutes), and after infusion
    (sample collected at 70, 80 and 90 minutes).
             Serum samples were evaluated for the presence of administered velaglucerase alfa
 10 using a glucocerebrosidase antigen immunoassay. The following PK parameters were
    evaluated: AUC (Area under the curve), Cmax (Maximum serum concentration), Tmax
    (Time to maximum serum concentration), CL (mL/min/kg) (Serum clearance, normalized
    for body weight), V,, (mL) (Apparent volume of distribution at steady-state), V,, (%BW)
    (V,, normalized for body weight), MRT (Mean residence time), and Tm/2 (Elimination
 15 half-life (analyzed with appropriate PK models)
            Bone Biomarkers: At Baseline only, patients 2 18 years-old underwent DXA of
    the lumbar spine and femoral neck, including coronal imaging, to determine Gaucher
    related local and systemic bone disease. Bone loss and demineralization were also
 ?o evaluated by measuring serum alkaline phosphatase, NTx, and CTx. Results for these
    parameters were obtained from blood samples collected for clinical laboratory testing at
    Baseline only.
             For patients 2 to 17 years-old, MRI of the femoral neck and lumbar spine was
    obtained at Baseline (i.e., at the same time patients underwent MRI of the liver and
25  spleen). It was not expected that any treatment effect would be apparent for these
    parameters during this study; therefore, measurements were collected at Baseline only to
    establish a reference point from which to monitor these biomarkers during the long-term
    clinical study.
                                                  104

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    Adverse Events
             Adverse Event Definition: An adverse event (AE) is any noxious, pathologic, or
    unintended change in anatomical, physiologic, or metabolic function as indicated by
  5 physical signs, symptoms, and/or laboratory changes occurring in any phase of a clinical
    trial, and whether or not considered study drug-related. This includes an exacerbation of
    a pre-existing condition. Adverse events were collected from informed consent/assent
    until 30 days after the last dose of study medication and/or until the event had been
    resolved/stabilized or an outcome was reached, whichever came first. For patients who
 I0 completed this study and elected to enroll in the subsequent long-term clinical study,
    adverse events were monitored from the time the patient provided informed consent
    through the Week 53 visit of TKT032.
             AEs include: worsening (change in nature, severity, or frequency) of conditions
    present at the onset of the study; intercurrent illnesses; drug interactions; events related to
 15 or possibly related to concomitant medications; abnormal laboratory values (this includes
    significant shifts from Baseline within the range of normal that the Investigator considers
    to be clinically important); clinically significant abnormalities in physical examination,
    vital signs, weight, and ECG.
             In addition, AEs might also include unexpected laboratory values that became
 ?o significantly out of range and determined to be clinically significant by the Investigator.
             Infusion-Related Adverse Event Definition: An infusion-related adverse event is
    defined as an adverse event that 1) begins either during or within 12 hours after the start
    of the infusion, and 2) is judged as possibly or probably related to study medication.
25  Other AEs which occurred prior to the infusion, along with AEs associated with protocol
    defined testing and assessments (e.g., laboratory testing, ECGs, and physical
    examinations) which were performed prior to the infusion, are not defined as infusion
    related adverse events.
30           Serious Adverse Event Definition: A serious AE (SAE) is any AE occurring at
    any dose that results in any of the following outcomes: death, is life-threatening, requires
                                                    105

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    inpatient hospitalization, requires prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent or
    significant disability/incapacity, and a congenital anomaly/birth defect.
             Important medical events that may not result in death, be life-threatening, or
    require hospitalization may be considered as SAEs when, based upon appropriate medical
  5 judgment, they may jeopardize the patient and may require medical or surgical
    intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above.
             A life-threatening AE is defined as an AE that placed the patient, in the view of
    the initial reporter, at immediate risk of death from the AE as it occurred (i.e., it does not
    include an AE that, had it occurred in a more severe form, might have caused death).
 10
             Classification of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events: The National
    Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) Version 3.0 grading scale was
    referenced when assessing the severity of an AE. If an AE was not described in the NCI
    CTC, the severity was recorded based on the scale below. The severity of all AEs/SAEs
 15 were recorded on the appropriate CRF page as Grade 1, 2, 3 or 4 corresponding,
    respectively, to a severity of mild, moderate, severe, or life-threatening. Grade 1 (mild)
    is defined as no limitation of usual activities. Grade 2 (moderate) is defined as some
    limitation of usual activities; Grade 3 (severe) is defined as inability to carry out usual
    activities; and Grade 4 (life-threatening) is defined as immediate risk of death.
 ?0          Relationship of an adverse event or serious adverse event to blinded study
    medication was determined by the Investigator based on the following definitions. "Not
    related" is defined as unrelated to study drug. "Possibly related" is defined as a clinical
    event/laboratory abnormality with a reasonable time sequence to administration of study
    drug, but which could also be explained by concurrent disease or other drugs/chemicals.
25  "Probably related" is defined as a clinical event/laboratory abnormality with a reasonable
    time sequence to administration of study drug, unlikely to be attributable to concurrent
    disease or other drugs and chemicals and which follows a clinically reasonable response
    on dechallenge. The association of the clinical event/laboratory abnormality must also
    have some biologic plausibility, at least on theoretical grounds.
30
                                                   106

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             Clarification between Serious and Severe: The term "severe" is often used to
    describe the intensity (severity) of a specific event (as in mild, moderate, or severe
    myocardial infarction); the event itself, however, may be of relatively minor medical
    significance (such as severe headache). This is not the same as "serious," which is based
  5 on the outcome or action criteria usually associated with events that pose a threat to life
    or functioning. Seriousness (not severity) and causality serve as a guide for defining
    regulatory reporting obligations.
             Adverse Event Monitoring and Period of Observation: For the purposes of this
 10 study, the period of observation extended from informed consent/assent until the patient's
    final evaluation of the study. For safety purposes, the final evaluation was defined as the
    post-study safety evaluation performed approximately 30 days after the last infusion for
    patients who completed the study and did not elect to enroll in the long-term study. For
    patients who completed this study and elected to enroll in the long-term clinical study,
 15 adverse events were monitored from the time the patient provides informed consent
    through the Week 53 visit of TKT032.
    Statistical Methods
             General Statistical Methodology: Statistical analyses were based on the ITT
 ?0 principle for all efficacy variables. The ITT analysis was based on all randomized
    patients who received at least one infusion (full or partial infusion). Summary statistics
    were provided for the changes and percent changes from Baseline for each parameter by
    treatment group. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals in the mean changes and mean
    percent changes from Baseline were presented by treatment group for each endpoint.
25           Continuous data collected at Baseline and subsequent study visits were
    summarized, and the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and median values
    for each variable were tabulated to facilitate the search for trends over time which might
    be attributable to study drug. Categorical variables were presented in terms of
    frequencies and percent. Within group changes were examined using paired t-tests.
30  Statistical significance was defined at the 0.05 level.
                                                   107

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             Demographic and Baseline characteristics were summarized as frequencies and
    percentages, and data were presented using descriptive statistics. Additional analyses
    were conducted specifically for patients between 2 and 17 years old.
             In general, descriptive statistics and graphs were used for presentation of study
  5 results, including, if relevant, graphs showing the development over time for patients
    individually and for each treatment group.
             Safety was evaluated on the basis of AEs reported, clinical laboratory data, ECG
    recordings, medical histories, vital signs, and physical examinations. In addition, blood
    samples were analyzed for determination of the presence of anti-velaglucerase alfa
 10 antibodies.
            Hypothesis Testing: All hypothesis testing was 2-sided and was performed at the
    0.05 level of significance. Each variable was quantified as a mean change from Baseline
    or mean percent change from Baseline. The null hypothesis for each variable being
 15 tested is that, at Week 51 or Week 53, there is no change from Baseline. The alternative
    hypothesis is that there is a change in either direction from Baseline.
             Screen Failures: The disposition of all patients screened for entry into the study
    was tabulated along with reasons for screen failure. The disposition of all randomized
 ?0 patients was tabulated by treatment and visit, and reasons for discontinuation were
    tabulated by treatment.
             Sample Size Justification: The sample size for this study was chosen to have a
    high power to detect a clinically significant difference in mean hemoglobin
25  concentrations from Baseline to 12 months. A total of 12 patients per treatment arm were
    required for the primary analysis. This number was based on results from the Phase 1/11
    Study TKT025, examining the within patient change from Baseline results. It was
    observed that at Week 25, the average hemoglobin increase from Baseline was 1.92 g/dL
    with a standard deviation of 0.824. The assumption was that the standard deviation of the
30  mean change was approximately the same. Using a two-sided alpha level of 0.05 and
    assuming a 1-unit change in hemoglobin is considered clinically significant, the standard
                                                    108

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    deviation of the change from Baseline is 0.824, then 10 patients would be needed for the
    trial to have a power of 90%. Assuming a 20% drop out rate, then 12 patients per
    treatment group would be needed. To gather additional safety data and to protect against
    possible patient dropout(s), and to achieve the target patient population, up to 30 patients
  5 could be enrolled in this study
             Analysis Populations: The primary population for analyses of efficacy data was
    the ITT patient population, defined as all enrolled and treated patients who receive at
    least one velaglucerase alfa infusion (or partial infusion). It was anticipated that attrition
 10 from the original random sample due to lack of post-Baseline data would be sufficiently
    small (5% or less) so as to minimize concerns regarding bias due to the exclusion of such
    patients.
             The safety population consisted of all randomized patients who received at least
    one study infusion (or partial infusion). Any patient in the safety population who did not
 15 receive the study infusion to which he or she was randomized was analyzed according to
    the infusion they predominantly received rather than the randomized treatment. Such
    patients were excluded from the Per-Protocol (PP) patient population. The PP patient
    population is defined as all randomized patients who have receive > 80% of the
    scheduled infusions, and who have valid Baseline and Week 51 and/or Week 53
 ?0 evaluations.
             Efficacy Analyses: The disposition of all patients Screened for entry into the
    study was tabulated, along with reason(s) for Screening failure. The disposition of all
    randomized patients was tabulated by treatment group and visit, and reason(s) for
25  discontinuation(s) was tabulated.
             The primary clinical activity variable is hemoglobin concentrations in the patients
    randomized to 60 U/kg of velaglucerase alfa. The primary objective is to demonstrate
    efficacy by showing a mean change in hemoglobin from Baseline to 12 months in
    patients randomized to 60 U/kg of velaglucerase alfa. For analysis purposes, hemoglobin
30  values collected at Screening and Baseline were averaged to establish the Baseline used
    to calculate change. The null hypothesis is that there will be no change from Baseline in
                                                   109

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    hemoglobin concentrations to 12 months. The mean difference from Baseline to 12
    months was tested using a paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test. A 95% confidence
    interval for the mean difference was also presented.
            Secondary and tertiary clinical activity variables are: hemoglobin concentrations
  5 (change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) was assessed for the 45 U/kg group);
    platelet counts (change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) was assessed for both
    treatment groups); spleen volume (percent change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51)
    was assessed for both treatment groups; in addition to observed values, spleen volumes
    were normalized by body weight and also presented by multiples of normal); liver
 10 volume (percent change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51) was assessed for both
    treatment groups; in addition to observed values, liver volumes were normalized by body
    weight and also presented by multiples of normal); plasma chitotriosidase (change from
    Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) was assessed for both treatment groups; a statistically
    significant decrease expected after 12 months of treatment); plasma CCL18 (change from
 15 Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) was assessed for both treatment groups; a statistically
    significant decrease expected after 12 months of treatment); quality of life (SF-36 and
    CHQ) (change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) was assessed for both treatment
    groups); hemoglobin response (time to achieve a hemoglobin response, defined as an
    increase in hemoglobin concentration of 2 lg/dL was assessed for both treatment
 ?0 groups); growth velocity and Tanner staging (change from Baseline to 12 months (Week
    53) was evaluated for both treatment groups in patients between 2 and 17 years-old);
    skeletal age (change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51) was evaluated for both
    treatment groups, as measured by radiography of the left hand and wrist, in patients 2 to
    17 years-old); and PFTs (change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) was assessed for
25  both treatment groups in patients 2 18 years-old).
            For the secondary objective used to demonstrate a mean change in hemoglobin
    from Baseline to 12 months (Week 53) in patients randomized to 45 U/kg of
    velaglucerase alfa, the null hypothesis is that there will be no change from Baseline to 12
    months (Week 51 or Week 53). For analysis purposes, hemoglobin values collected at
30  Screening and Baseline were averaged to establish the Baseline used to calculate change.
    The mean difference from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51 or Week 53) was tested using
                                                  110

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    a paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test. A 95% confidence interval for the mean
    difference was also presented.
             For the remaining secondary parameters, the null hypothesis is that there will be
    no change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51 or Week 53) for each treatment group.
  5 For analysis purposes, platelet values collected at Screening and Baseline were averaged
    to establish the Baseline used to calculate change for both the treatment groups. The
    mean difference from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51 or Week 53) was tested using a
    paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test. A 95% confidence interval for the mean
    difference was also presented.
 I0          For time to hemoglobin response, Kaplan-Meier (product limit) survival curves
    were presented for each treatment group. The median time and 95% confidence interval
    were obtained. Patients who did not experience the event at the end of the study (i.e., at
    Week 53) were censored at Week 53. In addition, the proportion of patients who
    achieved a hemoglobin level within the normal range during this study was presented.
 15          For the remaining tertiary parameters that examine change from Baseline, the null
    hypothesis is that there will be no change from Baseline to 12 months (Week 51 or Week
    53) for each treatment group. The mean difference between Baseline to 12 months (Week
    51 or Week 53) was tested using a paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test. A 95%
    confidence interval for the mean difference was also presented.
 20
             Safety Analyses: All patients who received at least one dose of study drug (or
    partial dose) were assessed for clinical safety and tolerability. No formal statistical tests
    were performed on the safety parameters. Vital signs, 12-lead ECG, clinical chemistry,
    hematology, and urinalysis safety monitoring were listed for each patient and abnormal
25  values were flagged. For categorical variables, such as AEs, the number and percentage
    of patients experiencing each AE were tabulated. AEs were summarized by severity of
    event. The number and percentage of patients experiencing drug related AEs as well as
    AEs that were not considered related to study drug were also displayed.
             Clinical laboratory evaluations (hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, and
30  determination of anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies) were used to assess the safety of
    velaglucerase alfa.
                                                  111

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
            Analysis of Subgroups: Additional analyses were conducted specifically for
    patients between 2 to 17 years old. Also, consideration was given in the analysis to
    disease severity with regard to hemoglobin Baseline values.
  5
            Pharmacokinetic Analyses: The single- and repeat-dose pharmacokinetic profiles
    for velaglucerase alfa were established by analyzing standard PK parameters at Week 1
    and Week 37, respectively.
 10 Results
            At 12 months, mean hemoglobin concentration increased in both groups (60 U/kg:
    23.3% increase, +2.40.3 g/dL, P=0.0001;45 U/kg: 23.8% increase, +2.40.5g/dL,
    P=0.0001), as did mean platelet count (60 U/kg: 66% increase, +5112x10 9/L,
    P=0.0016; 45 U/kg: 66% increase, +41-12x10 9/L; P=0.0111). Mean spleen volume
 15 decreased in both groups (60 U/kg: 50% decrease, -1.90.5% body weight, P=0.0032,
    from 14.0 multiples of normal [MN] at baseline to 5.6 MN; 45 U/kg: 40% decrease,
    1.90.6% body weight, P=0.0085; from 14.5 to 9.5 MN) as did liver volume (60 U/kg:
    17% decrease, 0.83.% body weight, P=0.0282, from 1.5 to 1.2 MN; 45 U/kg: 6%
    decrease, -0.30.3% body weight, P=0.3149, from 1.4 to 1.2 MN).
 ?o         In both groups, three-quarters of patients achieved >lg/dL increase in hemoglobin
    concentration by Week 15; in the 60U/kg group, all patients achieved >1 g/dL increase by
    Week 27 vs Week 37 for the 45U/kg group.
            Patients were excluded from the analysis of chitotriosidase if they had 2 copies of
    the chitotriosidase mutation (patient 6, 45 U/kg) or if they had baseline chitotriosidase
25  activity less than 5700 (patient 4, 60 U/kg; patient 15, 45 U/kg). Following 12 months of
    treatment, mean plasma chitotriosidase activity decreased from baseline for both
    treatment groups: by 83% (95% CI: -91.15, -74.08%; N=11; p<0.001) in the 60 U/kg
    group and by 60% (95% CI: -73.26, -46.63%; N=11; p<0.001) in the 45 U/kg group.
    Mean CCL18 levels also decreased over 1 year of treatment with velaglucerase alfa 60
30  U/kg and 45 U/kg by 66% (95% CI: -77.81, -54.22; p<0.001) and 47% (95% CI: -63.37,
    30.15%; p<0.001), respectively.
                                                  112

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
            Velaglucerase alfa was generally well tolerated with no drug-related serious AEs,
    and no patient withdrew due to an AE. The most common AEs were headache,
    nasopharyngitis, injury, arthralgia, cough, and pyrexia. A single patient developed
    antibodies.
  5         In conclusion, in this global, multicenter study, velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg and 45
    U/kg was generally well tolerated and effective as a first-line treatment for adults and
    children with type 1 Gaucher disease. Both doses were associated with rapid
    improvement in hemoglobin values, with the majority of patients responding as early as
    15 weeks. All clinical parameters measured demonstrated clinically meaningful
 10 improvements after 12 months, with a greater response seen with velaglucerase alfa 60
    U/kg.
    Example 3: HGT-GCB-039 (9M, 60 U/kg velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase)
    Summary
 15         This example describes a multicenter, Phase III, randomized, double-blind,
    parallel-group study designed to compare the safety and efficacy of the enzyme
    replacement therapy velaglucerase alfa with imiglucerase in the treatment of patients with
    type 1 Gaucher disease.
            The primary objective of this example is to demonstrate that velaglucerase alfa is
 ?o not inferior to imiglucerase as measured by a change from baseline in hemoglobin
    concentration to Week 41 (9M). The key secondary objective is to demonstrate that there
    are no differences in increases in platelet counts or reductions in liver/spleen volumes to
    Week 41 between the two groups.
            Patients were randomized in 1:1 ratio to receive 60 U/kg of velaglucerase alfa
25  (N=17) or imiglucerase (N=17). The baseline characteristics of the patients are listed in
    Tables 13 and 14. Stratification factors included age (2-17; > 18) and splenectomy status
    (Y; N). Both primary and secondary objectives were met. The results for the primary
    and secondary efficiency assessments are shown in Tables 15 and 16, respectively.
    FIGS. 11 and 12 show the comparable increase of mean hemoglobin concentration and
30  platelet count, respectively, from baseline in the patients treated with 60 U/kg
    velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase for 41 weeks. FIG. 13 shows the comparable increase
                                                  113

    WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
   of mean platelet count from baseline in the patients without spleen treated with 60 U/kg
   velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase for 41 weeks. FIG. 14 shows the comparable decrease
   of mean normalized liver volume from baseline in the patients treated with 60 U/kg
   velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase for 41 weeks. There were no significant differences in
 5 safety between velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase. Treatment emergent adverse events
   are summarized in Table 17. No patient receiving velaglucerase alfa developed
   antibodies (Table 18). Four patients receiving imiglucerase developed anti-imiglucerase
   antibodies (Table 18).
Io         Table 13 HGT-GCB-039 Baseline Characteristics of ITT
                                            velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg  imiglucerase 60 U/kg
                 Baseline Factor                      N = 17                    N = 17
            2 to 17 years n(%)                        4(23.5)                  5(29.4)
           2 to 4 years    n(%)                           0                    4(23.5)
           5 to 17 years n(%)                         4(23.5)                   1(5.9)
            > 18 years      n (%)                    13 (76.5)                 12 (70.6)
            Male            n(%)                      8(47.1)                  8(47.1)
            Female          n (%)                     9 (52.9)                 9 (52.9)
            Splenectomized                           10 (58.8)                 10 (58.8)
            With intact spleen                        7 (41.2)                 7 (41.2)
            BL Hemoglobin concentration         11.40 [9.65, 14.35]       10.60 [8.10, 13.05]
   (g/dL) Median [Min, Max]
            BL Platelet count (x 10 9/L)        172.00 [44.0, 310.5]     188.00 [63.0, 430.5]
   Median [Min, Max]
           Table 14 HGT-GCB-039 Baseline Characteristics by Age Group
                                                     2-4 Years Old          >5 Years Old
                    Baseline Factor                        N  = 4               N = 30
           Male             n (%)                        4 (100.0)             12 (40.0)
           Female           n (%)                            0                 18 (60.0)
           Splenectomized                                 1 (25.0)             19 (63.3)
                                                114

   WO 2011/017177                                                                 PCT/US2010/043586
           With intact spleen                               3 (75.0)                  11(36.7)
           BL Hemoglobin concentration (g/dL)         9.275 [8.10, 9.70]       11.300 [8.95, 14.35]
  Median [Min, Max]
           BL Platelet count (x 10 9/L) Median       70.75 [63.0, 188.0]       176.25 [44.0, 430.5]
  [Min, Max]
           BL Spleen Volume (% body Weight)             8.90 [7.3, 8.9]            1.70 [0.6, 6.3]
  Median [Min, Max]
           BL Liver Volume (% body Weight)               5.8 [5.4, 7.0]           3.85 [1.7, 12.2]
  Median [Min, Max]
           Table 15 HGT-GCB-039 Primary Efficacy Assessments - Mean Change at Week
  41 from Baseline in Hgb One-sided CI for Non-inferiority (velaglucerase alfa
  imiglucerase)
                           Treatment Difference in the Change from Baseline to Week 41
                                 ITT Population                       Per Protocol Population
                           Mean            Lower Bound             Mean               Lower Bound
   Parameter/              Treatment      of a 97.5%               Treatment         of a 97.5%
  Endpoint              n Difference      One-sided CI          n Difference         One-sided CI
  Hemoglobin Concentration (g/dL)
                       34      0.135            -0.596          30       0.157              -0.599
5
           Table 16 HGT-GCB-039 Secondary Efficacy Assessments - Difference in Mean
  Change at Week 41 from Baseline (velaglucerase alfa - imiglucerase)
                                                               Change from Baseline to Week 41
                                                                         Mean
                                                                      Treatment
                       Parameter                           n           Difference             95% CI
  Plateletsa (x1OA9/L)                                     34       -38.71               (-88.42, 10.99)
                                                 115

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
   Normalized Liver Volumea (% of Body Weight)           34       -0.07                 (-0.43, 0.29)
   Normalized Spleenb Volume'                            14        0.08                 (-0.52, 0.68)
    (% of Body Weight)
   Chitotriosidasea  d  (nmol/mL/h)                      21      -703.6                 (-11762.3,
                                                                                        10355.1)
   Chemokine (C-C motif) Ligand 18 (ng/mL)               34       145.7                 (-188.6, 480.0)
           a - Based on a mixed model adjusting for age at informed consent, splenectomy
   status and baseline values.
           b - There are 20 splenectomized patient(s) excluded (10 velaglucerase alfa 60
   U/kg; 10 imiglucerase 60 U/kg).
 5         c - Based on a mixed model adjusting for age at informed consent and baseline
   values.
           d - There are 13 patient(s) deficient in chitotriosidase activity excluded (7
   velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg; 6 imiglucerase 60 U/kg).
Io Table 17 HGT-GCB-039 Overall Summary of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events
                                                                                    Patients n(%)
                                                                       velaglucerase alfa      imiglucerase
                                                                            60 U/kg               60 U/kg
                                                                             N=17                  N=17
                              DESCRIPTION
   Experienced No Adverse Events                                             1( 5.9)               1( 5.9)
   Experienced At Least 1 Adverse Event                                     16(94.1)             16(94.1)
   Experienced At Least 1 Drug-Related Adverse Event                        8 (47.1)             6 ( 35.3)
   Experienced At Least 1 Infusion-Related Adverse Event                    5 (29.4)             4 ( 23.5)
   Experienced At Least 1 Severe Or Life-Threatening Adverse Event          3 (17.6)             2 (11.8)
   Experienced At Least 1 Serious Adverse Event                             3 (17.6)                  0
   Experienced at least 1 drug-related SAE                                   1(5.9)                   0
                                                  116

    WO 2011/017177                                                        PCT/US2010/043586
   Table 18 HGT-GCB-039 Antibodies
                                                velaglucerase alfa          imiglucerase
                                                     60 U/kg                   60 U/kg
                                                     N=17                      N=17
      Anti-imiglucerase Antibody Result               n (%)                     n (%)
                    Negative                        17 (100.0)                13 (76.5)
                    Positive                             0                    4 ( 23.5)
                       IgG                               0                    4(23.5)
                       IgA                               0                         0
                       IgM                               0                         0
                       IgE                               0                         0
             Neutralizing antibodies                     0                     1 ( 5.9)
   Anti-velaglucerase alfa Antibody Result
                    Negative                        17 (100.0)               16 (94.1)
                    Positivea                            0                     1 (5.9)
                       IgG                               0                     1(5.9)
                       IgA                               0                        0
                       IgM                               0                        0
                       IgE                               0                        0
             Neutralizing antibodies                     0                     1 (5.9)
   Study Objectives
           The primary objective of this study was to compare the effects of velaglucerase
 5 alfa and imiglucerase on hemoglobin concentration in patients with type 1 Gaucher
   disease.
           The secondary objectives of this study were: to compare the effects of
   velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase on platelet count; to compare the effects of
   velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase on liver and spleen volumes (by MRI); to compare
10 the effects of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase on Gaucher disease-specific
                                                117

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
    biomarkers (plasma chitotriosidase and CCL18 levels); to evaluate the safety of
    velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease, as measured
    by standard clinical laboratory assessments (including rates of antibody formation and
    enzyme neutralizing antibody activity) and safety evaluations (including rates of
  5 infusion-related adverse events and the proportion of patients requiring premedication use
    to manage infusion-related adverse events) for each treatment group; and to compare the
    effects of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase on the earliest time to response for
    hemoglobin (defined as a 21 g/dL improvement in hemoglobin levels relative to
    Baseline).
 I0          The tertiary objectives of this study are: to evaluate the effects of velaglucerase
    alfa and imiglucerase on growth velocity and Tanner staging in patients between 2 and 17
    years-old; to evaluate the effects of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase on changes in
    skeletal age in patients between 2 and 17 years-old by radiography of the left hand and
    wrist; to evaluate the effects of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase on changes in overall
 15 QoL, as measured by the SF-36 for patients 2 18 years of age and the CHQ PF-50 for
    patients 5 to 17 years-old; to evaluate the effects of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase
    on immune and inflammatory responses in patients >18 years of age as measured by
    selected cytokine assessments (TNF-a, IL6, ILib, IL8, IL13, CD14, and GM-CSF); to
    establish a baseline from which to evaluate bone disease in patients between 2 and 17
 ?0 years-old by MRI of the lumbar spine and femoral neck; and to establish a baseline from
    which to evaluate the long-term effect of velaglucerase alfa therapy on Gaucher-related
    local and systemic bone disease in patients 2 18 years-old by: dual energy X-ray
    absorptiometry (DXA) of the lumbar spine and femoral neck, including coronal imaging;
    and serum alkaline phosphatase, N-telopeptide cross-links (NTx), and C-telopeptide
25  cross-links (CTx).
    Study Endpoints
             The primary endpoint of this study is to measure the mean change from Baseline
    to week 41/End of Study (EOS) in hemoglobin concentration between the two treatment
30  groups.
                                                   118

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
            The secondary endpoints of this study are: to evaluate the safety of velaglucerase
    alfa and imiglucerase, as assessed by adverse events and infusion-related adverse events
    (and the proportion of patients requiring premedication use to manage infusion-related
    adverse events), clinical laboratory values, vital signs, 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECG),
  5 antibody formation and enzyme neutralizing antibody activity; to compare the mean and
    percent changes from Baseline in platelet count between treatment groups; to compare
    the mean and percent changes from Baseline in liver and spleen volumes by MRI
    between treatment groups; to compare the mean and percent changes from Baseline in
    plasma chitotriosidase and plasma CCL18 levels between treatment groups; and to
 10 compare time to response for hemoglobin concentration (defined as a >1 g/dL
    improvement in hemoglobin levels relative to Baseline) between treatment groups.
            The tertiary endpoints of this study are: to evaluate change from Baseline in
    growth velocity and Tanner staging for patients between 2 and 17 years-old within each
    treatment group; to evaluate change from Baseline in the SF-36 parameters for patients
 15 >18 years-old within each treatment group; to evaluate the effects of velaglucerase alfa
    and imiglucerase on immune and inflammatory responses in patients >18 years-old as
    measured by selected cytokine assessments (TNF-a, IL6, ILib, IL8, IL13, CD14, and
    GM-CSF); to evaluate change from Baseline in the CHQ (PF-50) parameters for patients
    5 to 17 years-old within each treatment group; and to evaluate change from Baseline in
 ?0 skeletal age as measured by radiography of the left hand and wrist for patients between 2
    and 17 years old within each treatment group.
    Overall Study Design
            This study was comprised of 5 phases as follows: Screening: Day -21 through
25  Day -4; Baseline: Day -3 through Day 0 (through patient randomization); Treatment:
    Week 1 (Day 1, i.e., day of first dose) through Week 39; End of Study Visit: Week 41;
    Follow-up Contact: 30 days after the final infusion (for patients who
    discontinue/withdraw prior to the Week 41 evaluation, or for patients who do not elect to
    enroll in the long-term clinical study).
30
            At Screening, patients who provided written informed consent to participate in
    this study were reviewed against the study entrance criteria to determine eligibility.
                                                  119

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    Patients provided blood samples to measure hemoglobin concentration. Only those
    patients who had a hemoglobin concentration that was below the lower limit of normal
    for age and gender were eligible for enrollment. For statistical analysis purposes, an
    additional blood sample was collected at screening for evaluation of hemoglobin
  5 concentration.
            Patients who were eligible for study participation after completing the Screening
    evaluations underwent Baseline procedures and evaluations (i.e., Days -3 to 0). To
    confirm that their hemoglobin concentration was below the lower limit of normal for age
    and gender, patients provided a blood sample at Baseline. Hemoglobin concentration
 I0 was analyzed and reported. Only those patients who had a hemoglobin concentration that
    was below the lower limit of normal for age and gender at both Screening and Baseline
    were eligible for enrollment. For statistical analysis purposes, an additional blood sample
    was collected at Baseline for evaluation of hemoglobin concentrations. Additional
    Baseline procedures and evaluations were conducted prior to administration of the first
 15 dose of blinded study medication.
            Upon completion of Screening and Baseline procedures and confirmation of
    patient eligibility, patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive double-blind study
    medication (either velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg or imiglucerase 60 U/kg). Randomization
    was accomplished via a centralized procedure. A computer generated randomization
 ?o schedule was utilized to allocate patients to treatment groups. An attempt was made to
    obtain treatment groups that were comparable in certain prognostic variables, such as age,
    hemoglobin concentration, and whether the patient had undergone splenectomy. The
    randomization schedule was prepared prior to the study.
            Patients received a total of 20 IV infusions of double-blind study medications at
25  the clinical site once every other week for a total of 39 Weeks. Safety and efficacy
    assessments were made at regular intervals during the treatment phase. The final
    assessments of safety and efficacy were made at the Week 41 visit (2 weeks after the last
    infusion).
            Safety was assessed throughout the study by assessments of adverse events
30  (including infusion-related adverse events), concomitant medications, and vital signs.
    Additional safety assessments, including, 12-lead electrocardiograms, physical
                                                  120

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    examinations, clinical laboratory tests (hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis),
    were made at Weeks 13, 25, and 41. Determination of the presence of anti-velaglucerase
    alfa or anti-imiglucerase antibodies and enzyme neutralizing antibodies was conducted
    approximately every 6 weeks until Week 41.
  5          Efficacy was assessed via hemoglobin concentration and platelet count, liver and
    spleen volume, and plasma chitotriosidase and CCL18 level. Additional efficacy
    assessments included growth velocity and Tanner staging, QoL indicators, skeletal
    growth. Immune and inflammatory response (as measured by selected cytokine
    parameters) was measured in patients who are >18 years of age at study entry.
 I0 The duration of treatment in this study was 39 weeks and the duration of patient
    participation in this study was up to 11 months (from Screening through follow-up).
    Patients who completed this study were provided the opportunity to enroll in a
    subsequent open-label long-term clinical study, in which all patients would receive
    velaglucerase alfa. For patients who elected to enroll in the subsequent open-label long
 15 term clinical study, certain assessments from the Week 41 visit were used as the baseline
    assessments for that clinical study; patients would receive their first velaglucerase alfa
    infusion for the long-term clinical study following completion of the Week 41 procedures
    and evaluations scheduled for this study. Therefore, it was intended that patients would
    receive continuous treatment across the 2 studies. Patients who completed this study and
 ?0 did not elect to enroll in the long-term clinical study would have a safety evaluation by
    site visit or telephone 30 days after their last infusion in this study.
    Selection of Study Population
             34 patients were enrolled (17 patients assigned to each treatment group).
25           Eligible participants were males or females age >2 years with diagnosed type 1
    Gaucher disease (deficient glucocerebrosidase activity in leukocytes, or by genotype
    analysis), and disease-related anemia (hemoglobin levels below the local laboratory's
    lower limit of normal for age and gender). Participants also had 1 or more of the
    following: at least moderate splenomegaly (2 to 3 cm below the left costal margin) by
30  palpation; disease-related thrombocytopenia (platelet count <120x10 3 platelets/mm3); or
                                                    121

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    readily palpable enlarged liver. Participants could not have received treatment for
    Gaucher disease within 12 months prior to study entry.
            Participants were excluded if they had a splenectomy; had (or were suspected of
    having) type 2 or 3 Gaucher disease; were antibody-positive or had experienced an
  5 anaphylactic shock to imiglucerase. Other exclusion criteria included treatment with any
    non-Gaucher disease-related investigational drug or device within 30 days prior to study
    entry; positive test for HIV, or hepatitis B or C; exacerbated anemia (vitamin B12, folic
    acid, or iron deficiency-related), or any significant co-morbidity that could affect study
    data. Pregnant or lactating women were excluded and women of child-bearing potential
 10 were required to use a medically acceptable method of contraception at all times.
    Study Treatments
            Treatment Assignment: Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio prior to
    administration of the first dose of: velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg every other week for 39
 15 Weeks (up to 16 patients, 20 infusions), or imiglucerase 60 U/kg every other week for 39
    Weeks (up to 16 patients, 20 infusions). All study medication was administered by IV
    infusion over 1 hour to maintain the treatment blind.
            Treatment Administration
 ?o         Study Medication Infusions: Double-blind study medication infusions were
    administered at the clinical site as a continuous 1-hour IV infusion to maintain the
    treatment blind. Study medication infusions occurred on approximately the same day of
    the week but occurred every 14 days ( 3 days) in order to facilitate patient scheduling.
25          Dose Calculation: The first dose of double-blind study medication was based on
    the patient's weight at Baseline. A change in weight of >5% from Baseline or from the
    most recent recorded measurement (Week 13 or Week 25) would require recalculation of
    the dose of study medication.
                                                   122

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
            Description of Study Medications
            VELAGLUCERASE ALFA: Velaglucerase alfa is a lyophilized product that was
    supplied and shipped to the clinical study site to be stored at 2 to 8'C.
            Imiglucerase (Cerezyme@): Imiglucerase (Cerezyme) was supplied as a sterile,
  5 non-pyrogenic, white to off-white lyophilized product.
    Study Procedures and Data Collection Methods
            Study Entrance Criteria: At Screening patients were reviewed for eligibility
    against the study entrance criteria. Patients who did not meet the study entrance criteria
 10 were considered Screen failures.
            Confirmation of Eligibility: At Screening, patients provided blood samples to
    measure hemoglobin concentration to determine study eligibility. Only those patients
    who had a hemoglobin concentration that was below the local laboratory's lower limit of
 15 normal for age and gender were eligible for enrollment.
            At Baseline, patients provided a blood sample to confirm that their hemoglobin
    concentration was below the local laboratory's lower limit of normal for age and gender.
    Only those patients who had a hemoglobin concentration that was below the lower limit
    of normal for age and gender at both Screening and Baseline were confirmed eligible for
 ?0 this study.
            Genotyping: All patients provided a blood sample at Screening for Gaucher
    disease genotyping and plasma chitotriosidase genotyping.
25          Medical History: At Screening, the patient's complete medical history was
    recorded. This included a review of body systems, documentation of current and prior
    medical procedures, and documentation of current and prior concomitant medication
    usage, and documentation that the patient had not been treated for Gaucher disease within
    the 12 months prior to study entry.
30
                                                  123

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
            Vital Signs: Vital signs parameters that were recorded included pulse, blood
    pressure, respiration rate, and temperature. The following schedule was followed for
    recording vital signs at infusion visits: start of infusion (within 10 minutes prior to
    starting the infusion), during infusion (30 minutes ( 5 minutes)), after infusion (within 5
  5 minutes, 30 minutes ( 5 minutes), and 60 minutes ( 5 minutes) after completing the
    infusion). At Screening, Baseline, and Week 41, vital signs were collected at one time
    point only.
            Physical Examinations: Physical examinations were performed at Screening,
 10 Baseline and at Study Weeks 13, 25, and 41. Physical examinations included the
    following: general appearance, endocrine, head and neck, cardiovascular, eyes, abdomen,
    ears, genitourinary, nose, skin, throat, musculoskeletal, chest and lungs, and neurological.
    Any abnormal change in physical findings was recorded as an adverse event on the
    appropriate CRF page(s).
 15
            Height and Weight: Height and weight were recorded at Baseline and at Study
    Weeks 13, 25, and Week 41. For pediatric patients (i.e., 2 to 17 years-old), height and
    weight assessments were used to determine growth velocity.
 ?0         12-Lead Electrocardiograms: A 12-lead ECG was performed at Baseline and at
    Study Weeks 13, 25, and 41, and included assessment of PR, QRS, QT, and QTc
    intervals, and heart rate.
            Clinical Laboratory Testing: Blood and urine samples were collected as
25  described below for clinical laboratory testing.
            Hematology: Blood samples were collected during Screening and at Baseline to
    measure hemoglobin levels for statistical analysis. Blood samples were also collected at
    Screening, Baseline, and Weeks 13, 25, and 41 for complete hematology testing. The
    following hematology parameters were evaluated: complete blood count (CBC) with
30  differential, platelet count, activated partial thromboplastin time (aPPT), reticulocyte
    count (analyzed and reported by the clinical site's local laboratory), and prothrombin
                                                    124

      WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    time (PT). Blood samples were collected at Screening, Baseline, and at every study visit
    (except at the Week 1 visit) to measure hemoglobin concentration and platelet count.
            Serum Chemistry: Blood samples were collected for serum chemistry testing at
  5 Screening, Baseline, and at Study Weeks 13, 25, and 41. The following serum chemistry
    parameters were evaluated: sodium, alanine aminotransferase, potassium, aspartate
    aminotransferase, glucose, lactate dehydrogenase, total calcium,
    gammaglutamyltransferase, total protein, creatinine phosphokinase, albumin, NTx*,
    creatinine, CTx*, urea nitrogen, folic acid (to determine study eligibility), total bilirubin,
 10 vitamin B 12 (screening only), alkaline phosphatase* (* results were used for assessments
    of bone biomarkers). Patients who at Screening had folic acid and/or vitamin B 12
    deficiency-related anemia, and so did not meet study entry criteria were considered a
    screen failure.
 15         Urinalysis: Urine samples were collected for urinalysis at Screening, Baseline,
    and at Study Weeks 13, 25, and 41. The following urinalysis parameters were evaluated:
    pH, microscopic evaluation, and macroscopic evaluation.
            Serum Anti-velaglucerase alfa Antibodies: Patients provided blood samples to
 ?o measure anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies in serum at Screening and approximately
    every 6 weeks during the treatment phase (Weeks 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, and 37), and at Week
    41. During the treatment phase, these blood samples were collected prior to the infusion
    of double-blind study medication.
            Blood samples collected for anti-velaglucerase alfa antibody determination were
25  evaluated. These samples were screened using an enzyme-linked immunosorbence assay
    (ELISA), and all positive samples were confirmed positive using a
    radioimmunoprecipitaion assay (RIP). Positive samples were isotyped (IgG, IgA, IgM,
    or IgE). In addition, positive samples were tested for enzyme neutralizing activity using
    an in vitro assay.
30
                                                  125

      WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
            Serum Anti-imiglucerase Antibody Determination: Patients provided blood
    samples at Screening to measure anti-imiglucerase antibodies. The anti-imiglucerase
    antibody analyses were performed using the same samples obtained for anti
    velaglucerase alfa antibody analyses.
  5         These blood samples were evaluated to determine the presence of anti
    imiglucerase antibodies. These samples were screened using an enzyme-linked
    immunosorbence assay (ELISA), and all positive samples were confirmed positive using
    a radioimmunoprecipitaion assay (RIP). Positive samples were isotyped (IgG, IgA, IgM,
    or IgE). In addition, positive samples were tested for enzyme neutralizing activity using
 10 an in vitro assay.
            Patients who test positive for anti-imiglucerase antibodies at Screening were not
    eligible for this study.
            Antibody cross-reactivity testing (to velaglucerase alfa) was conducted for
    patients who develop anti-imiglucerase antibodies during this study.
 15
            Immune and Inflammatory Response Testing: Patients who were >18 years of age
    provided blood samples for immune and inflammatory response testing at Baseline and at
    Weeks 13, 25, and 41. One sample was obtained at Baseline. At Weeks 13, 25, and 41,
    samples were obtained before, immediately following, and 1 hour after each infusion
 ?o with study drug.
            Adverse Events: Adverse events were monitored throughout the study from the
    time the patient provided informed consent through 30 days after the last infusion for
    patients who completed the study and did not elect to enroll in the subsequent open-label
25  long-term clinical study, or for patients who discontinue or withdraw from the study prior
    to the Week 41 visit. For patients who completed this study and elected to enroll in the
    subsequent open-label long-term clinical study, adverse events were monitored from
    informed consent through completion of the Week 41 visit.
30          Management of Infusion-Related Adverse Events: Infusions of proteins can be
    associated with reactions to the infusion. An infusion-related adverse event is defined as
                                                  126

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    an adverse event that 1) begins either during or within 12 hours after the start of the
    infusion, and 2) is judged as possibly or probably related to blinded study medications.
            Liver and Spleen MRI: Patients underwent MRI of the liver and spleen at
  5 Baseline and at Weeks 25 and 41/EOS. Liver and spleen size were measured using
    quantitative abdominal MRI.
            Plasma Chitotriosidase Levels: Blood samples were collected for the evaluation of
    plasma chitotriosidase levels at Baseline and at Weeks 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 25, 29, 33, 37,
 10 and Week 41. Chitotriosidase was analyzed using an enzyme activity assay.
            Plasma CCL18 Levels: Blood samples were collected for the evaluation of plasma
    CCL18 levels at Baseline and at Weeks 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 25, 29, 33, 37, and Week 41.
    CCL18 levels were measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a
 15 commercially available kit.
            Quality of Life Testing: At Baseline and Week 41, patients' quality of life was
    evaluated using validated questionnaires, including the Short Form 36 (SF-36), version 2,
    for patients > 18 years-old and the Childhood Health Questionnaire (CHQ), PF50 for
 ?o patients 5 to 17 years-old (Ware Arch Phys Med Rehabil Vol 84, Suppl 2, April 2003:43
    51; SF-36v2 TM Health Survey@ 1996, 2000 by QualityMetric Incorporated and Medical
    Outcomes Trust. All Rights Reserved; Landgraf et al. Child Health Questionnaire: A
    User's Manual. 2     printing, Health Act, Inc., Boston MA, 1999; Landgraf et al. Quality
    of Life Research. 1998; 7(5):433-445).
25
            Growth Velocity and Tanner Staging: For patients 2 to 17 years-old, growth was
    assessed at Baseline and Weeks 13, 25, and 41. Growth velocity was calculated using
    height and weight measurements that were recorded at regular time points during this
    study, and correlated with Tanner staging. Tanner stage was recorded at Baseline and
30  Weeks 13, 25, and 41. The change from Baseline for each patient between 2 and 17
    years old in each treatment group was evaluated as a tertiary efficacy parameter.
                                                  127

      WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
             Skeletal Growth: Patients between 2 and 17 years-old underwent radiography of
    the left hand and wrist at Baseline and Week 41 for evaluation of skeletal age.
  5          Bone Biomarkers: At Baseline and Week 41, patients who were         18 years-old
    underwent DXA of the lumbar spine and femoral neck, including coronal imaging, to
    determine Gaucher-related local and systemic bone disease. Bone loss and
    demineralization were evaluated for these patients by measuring serum alkaline
    phosphatase, NTx, and CTx at Baseline and Week 41.
 10          For patients 2 to 17 years-old, MRI of the femoral neck and lumbar spine was
    obtained at Baseline and Week 41, at the same time these patients underwent MRI of the
    liver and spleen.
             It was not expected that any treatment effect would be apparent for these
    parameters during this study, however, the measurements collected at Baseline and Week
 15 41 would be utilized to establish a reference point from which to monitor these
    biomarkers during the subsequent open-label long-term clinical study.
             Prior and Concomitant Illnesses: Additional illnesses present at Baseline were
 ?o regarded as concomitant illnesses and were documented on the appropriate pages of the
    medical history CRF. Illnesses first occurring or detected during the study, or worsening
    of a concomitant illness during the study, were regarded as AEs and were documented as
    such in the CRF.
             Patients did not receive treatment with red blood cell growth factor or
25  investigational drug(s) or device(s) at any point during this study or within 30 days after
    the last infusion.
             During the treatment phase of this study, patients might receive corticosteroids as
    premedications to mitigate potential infusion-related adverse events.
30  Adverse Events
             Adverse Event Definition: An adverse event (AE) is any noxious, pathologic, or
    unintended change in anatomical, physiologic, or metabolic function as indicated by
                                                  128

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    physical signs, symptoms, and/or laboratory changes occurring in any phase of a clinical
    trial, and whether or not considered study drug-related. This includes an exacerbation of a
    pre-existing condition. Adverse events were collected from the time the patient provides
    signed informed consent until 30 days after the last dose of blinded study medication
  5 and/or until the event had been resolved/stabilized or an outcome was reached, whichever
    comes first. For patients who discontinued or were withdrawn prior to the Week 41 visit,
    AEs were followed up to 30 days after their last infusion. For patients who completed
    this study and elected to enroll in the long-term clinical study, adverse events were
    monitored from the time the patient provides informed consent through the Week 41
 10 visit.
             AEs include: worsening (change in nature, severity, or frequency) of conditions
    present at the onset of the study; intercurrent illnesses; drug interactions; events related to
    or possibly related to concomitant medications; abnormal laboratory values (this includes
    significant shifts from Baseline within the range of normal that the Investigator considers
 15 to be clinically important); clinically significant abnormalities in physical examination,
    vital signs, weight, and ECG.
             In addition, AEs might also include unexpected laboratory values that became
    significantly out of range and determined to be clinically significant by the Investigator.
    In the event of an unexpected out-of-range value, the laboratory test was repeated until it
 ?o returned to normal or could be explained and the patient's safety was not at risk.
             Infusion-Related Adverse Event Definition: An infusion-related adverse event
    was defined as an adverse event that 1) begins either during or within 12 hours after the
    start of the infusion, and 2) is judged as possibly or probably related to blinded study
25  medication. Other AEs which occurred prior to the infusion, along with AEs associated
    with protocol-defined testing and assessments (e.g., laboratory testing, ECGs, and
    physical examinations) which were performed prior to the infusion, were not defined as
    infusion-related adverse events.
30           Serious Adverse Event Definition: A serious AE (SAE) is any AE occurring at
    any dose that results in any of the following outcomes: death, is life-threatening, requires
                                                    129

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    inpatient hospitalization, requires prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent or
    significant disability/incapacity, and a congenital anomaly/birth defect.
             Important medical events that may not result in death, be life-threatening, or
    require hospitalization may be considered as SAEs when, based upon appropriate medical
  5 judgment, they may jeopardize the patient and may require medical or surgical
    intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above.
             A life-threatening AE is defined as an AE that placed the patient, in the view of
    the initial reporter, at immediate risk of death from the AE as it occurred (i.e., it does not
    include an AE that, had it occurred in a more severe form, might have caused death).
 10
             Classification of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events: The National
    Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) Version 3.0 grading scale was
    referenced when assessing the severity of an AE. If an AE was not described in the NCI
    CTC, the severity was recorded based on the scale below. The severity of all AEs/SAEs
 15 were recorded on the appropriate CRF page as Grade 1, 2, 3 or 4 corresponding,
    respectively, to a severity of mild, moderate, severe, or life-threatening. Grade 1 (mild)
    is defined as no limitation of usual activities. Grade 2 (moderate) is defined as some
    limitation of usual activities; Grade 3 (severe) is defined as inability to carry out usual
    activities; and Grade 4 (life-threatening) is defined as immediate risk of death.
 ?0          Relationship of an adverse event or serious adverse event to blinded study
    medication was determined by the Investigator based on the following definitions. "Not
    related" is defined as unrelated to study drug. "Possibly related" is defined as a clinical
    event/laboratory abnormality with a reasonable time sequence to administration of study
    drug, but which could also be explained by concurrent disease or other drugs/chemicals.
25  "Probably related" is defined as a clinical event/laboratory abnormality with a reasonable
    time sequence to administration of study drug, unlikely to be attributable to concurrent
    disease or other drugs and chemicals and which follows a clinically reasonable response
    on dechallenge. The association of the clinical event/laboratory abnormality must also
    have some biologic plausibility, at least on theoretical grounds.
30
                                                   130

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             Clarification between Serious and Severe: The term "severe" is often used to
    describe the intensity (severity) of a specific event (as in mild, moderate, or severe
    myocardial infarction); the event itself, however, may be of relatively minor medical
    significance (such as severe headache). This is not the same as "serious," which is based
  5 on the outcome or action criteria usually associated with events that pose a threat to life
    or functioning. Seriousness (not severity) and causality serve as a guide for defining
    regulatory reporting obligations.
             Adverse Event Monitoring and Period of Observation: For the purposes of this
 I0 study, the period of observation extended from the time the patient provided informed
    consent until the patient's final evaluation of the study. For safety purposes, the final
    evaluation was defined as the post-study safety evaluation performed approximately 30
    days after the last infusion for patients who completed the study and did not elect to
    enroll in the long-term study, or for patients who discontinued or withdrew from the
 15 study prior to the Week 41 visit. For patients who completed this study and elected to
    enroll in the long-term clinical study, adverse events were monitored from the time the
    patient provides informed consent through the Week 41 visit. If the Investigator
    considered it necessary to report an AE in a study patient after the end of the observation
    period, he or she would contact the Sponsor to determine how the AE should be
 ?o documented and reported.
    Statistical Method
             General Statistical Methodology: Two data sets were considered for the
    statistical analyses of efficacy: 1) the intention-to-treat (ITT) data set and 2) the per
25  protocol (PP) data set. The ITT data set is comprised of all randomized patients who
    received at least one full or partial dose of study drug. The PP data set is a subset of the
    ITT data set, which includes patients who completed 41 weeks of the study, had both the
    Baseline and the Week 41 measurements of the primary efficacy variable collected, and
    received at least 80% of their scheduled dose of infusion.
30           For variables following a continuous distribution, tabular summaries consisted of
    n, mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and median. Graphs of the key
                                                   131

      WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    efficacy variables were presented by treatment groups. For categorical variables, tabular
    summaries consisted of presenting the frequency and the percentage in each category by
    treatment group. The primary efficacy variable was presented by treatment group, and
    included: raw values: the untransformed value of the variable in the originally reported
  5 scale; the absolute change in the value from Baseline, i.e., X - B (where B is the Baseline
    value and X is a post-Baseline value); and the percent change in the value from Baseline,
    i.e., 100 * (X - B) / B (where B is the Baseline value and X is a post-Baseline value).
              Hypothesis Testing: This study compared the effect of velaglucerase alfa with
 I0 imiglucerase. The intent was to show that velaglucerase alfa was clinically at least as
    good as imiglucerase at the 0.025 level of significance.
              The null hypothesis for the primary efficacy endpoint is that the mean change in
    hemoglobin concentration from Baseline to Week 41 for velaglucerase alfa is at least 1
    g/dL inferior to the mean change in hemoglobin concentration from Baseline to Week 41
 15 for imiglucerase. The hypothesis to be tested can be stated as:
    Ho:     -vela- RIMIG < -1   vs.   HA:   -vela -  [IMIG>  1
    Or
    Ho: velaglucerase alfa is inferior with respect to the mean hemoglobin response
    HA:    velaglucerase alfa is non-inferior with respect to the mean hemoglobin response
 20
              Screen Failures and Patient Disposition: The disposition of all patients screened
    for entry into the study was tabulated along with reasons for screen failure. The
    disposition of all randomized patients was tabulated by treatment arm and visit, and
    reasons for discontinuation were tabulated by treatment arm.
25
              Sample Size Justification: When the sample size in each treatment group is 14, a
    two-group 0.025 one-sided t-test will have an 80% power to reject the null hypothesis
    that the difference in means for hemoglobin is <-1 g/dL in favor of the alternative
    hypothesis that the difference in means is greater than -1, assuming that the expected
30  difference in means is 0, and the common standard deviation is 0.90.
                                                    132

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             Assuming a 15% dropout, a total of 32 patients (16 patients per treatment arm)
    were enrolled into the study.
             Efficacy Analysis
  5          Analysis Populations: Two data sets were considered for the statistical analyses of
    efficacy (the intention-to-treat (ITT) data set and the per-protocol (PP) data set).
             Primary Efficacy Analyses: The primary efficacy endpoint is the mean change
    from Baseline to Week 41 in hemoglobin concentration between the two treatment
 10 groups. The primary analysis was carried out using the ITT population. This is a non
    inferiority randomized controlled trial designed to demonstrate that velaglucerase alfa is
    non-inferior to imiglucerase in terms of efficacy in treating patients with type 1 Gaucher
    disease.
             A one-sided 97.5% confidence interval was used. Non-inferiority was
 15 demonstrated by either a one-sided confidence interval or a hypothesis test for testing the
    null hypothesis that the treatment difference is less than or equal to the lower equivalence
    margin in hemoglobin (-1 g/dL) versus the alternative that imiglucerase treatment
    difference is greater than the lower equivalence margin. In other words, focusing on just
    one end of the confidence interval and ignoring the other results in a one-sided 97.5%
 ?o confidence interval [(a, oc)], where a is the lower bound of the 1-sided confidence
    interval, an efficacy conclusion could be drawn.
             Secondary Efficacy Analyses: For the secondary efficacy parameters (platelet
    counts, liver, and spleen volumes, chitotriosidase, and CCL18) that compare changes
25  from Baseline between treatment groups, statistical tests evaluated if the mean changes
    from Baseline to Week 41 between the two treatment groups is statistically significant
    (statistically significant will be defined as a p-value less than 0.05). A 95% confidence
    interval was presented for the difference in mean changes from Baseline between the two
    treatment arms using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model, which included, e.g.,
30  Baseline age as a covariate.
                                                    133

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
             For time to event outcome measures (i.e., time to first hemoglobin response >1
    g/dL from baseline), Kaplan-Meier (product limit) survival curves were presented for
    each treatment group and a log-rank test were used to compare curves between treatment
    groups. The median time and 95% confidence interval were presented for each treatment
  5 group. Patients who did not experience the event by the end of the study (i.e., by Week
    41) were censored at Week 41. Patients who withdrew or were discontinued prior to the
    Week 41 evaluation and who did not achieve a response at the time of withdrawal or
    discontinuation were censored at the time of the last known evaluation for that patient. In
    addition, the proportion of patients who responded versus non-responders were presented
 I0 and compared between treatment groups using Fisher's Exact Test.
             Safety Analyses: All patients who received at least one dose of study drug (or
    partial dose) were assessed for clinical safety and tolerability. No formal statistical tests
    were performed on the safety parameters. Vital signs, 12-lead ECG, clinical chemistry,
 15 hematology, and urinalysis safety monitoring were summarized. For categorical
    variables, such as AEs, the number and percentage of patients experiencing each AE
    were tabulated. AEs were summarized by severity of event. The number and percentage
    of patients experiencing drug related AEs and infusion-related AEs, as well as AEs that
    were not considered related to study drug will also be displayed. Clinical laboratory
 ?0 evaluations (hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, and determination of anti
    velaglucerase alfa antibodies) were used to assess the safety of velaglucerase alfa.
    Example 4: TKT034 Study (Multi-center open-label study in patients who
    transitioned from treatment with imiglucerase)
25  Summary
             This example describes a global, open-label, 12-month study to examine the
    safety and efficacy of velaglucerase alfa in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease
    previously receiving imiglucerase. Patients aged >2 years received velaglucerase alfa at a
    dose equal to their prior imiglucerase dose, with infusions administered over 1 hour every
30  other week.
                                                  134

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
            Forty patients received velaglucerase alfa (18 male; 4 previously splenectomized;
    age range, 9-71 years). Median prior imiglucerase use was 67 months (range 22-192
    months). Velaglucerase alfa doses were: 15-22.5U/kg (n=14) ("the 15U/kg group"),
    22.5-37.5U/kg (n=12) ("the 30U/kg group"), 37.5-52.5U/kg (n=7) ("the 45U/kg group"),
  5 and >52.5U/kg (n=7) ("the 60U/kg group"). Velaglucerase alfa was generally well
    tolerated with most adverse events (AEs) of mild or moderate severity. Eleven patients
    (28%) experienced an AE considered possibly or probably related to study drug; the
    majority were considered infusion related. No patient experienced a life-threatening AE.
    One serious AE was considered probably related to treatment: one patient had a grade 2
 10 hypersensitivity reaction during the first infusion, and chose to discontinue the study.
    This patient tested negative for IgE, IgM, IgG, IgA and neutralizing antibodies at the time
    of the infusion and 2 weeks later. No patients developed IgG antibodies to velaglucerase
    alfa. Hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, liver and spleen volume were sustained at
    therapeutic levels through 1 year.
 15         In conclusion, adult and pediatric patients with type 1 Gaucher disease, previously
    treated with imiglucerase for >22 months, were successfully transitioned to velaglucerase
    alfa, with stability in clinical disease measures over 12 months.
    Study Objectives
 ?o         The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the safety of every other week
    dosing of velaglucerase alfa in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease who were previously
    treated with imiglucerase.
            The secondary objectives were: to evaluate changes from Baseline in hemoglobin
    concentration after every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa, to evaluate changes
25  from Baseline in platelet count after every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa, and
    to evaluate changes from Baseline in liver and spleen volume by abdominal MRI after
    every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa.
            The tertiary/exploratory objectives were: to evaluate changes from Baseline in
    levels of plasma chitotriosidase and Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 18 (CCL18) after
30  every other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa, to evaluate changes in skeletal age in
    patients between 2 and 17 years-old by radiography of the left hand and wrist after every
                                                   135

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    other week dosing of velaglucerase alfa, to evaluate changes in growth velocity and
    Tanner staging in patients between 2 and 17 years-old after every other week dosing of
    velaglucerase alfa, to establish a Baseline from which to monitor the long term effect of
    velaglucerase alfa therapy on Gaucher-related local and systemic bone disease in patients
  5 > 18 years-old, as measured by bone density (DXA) of the lumbar spine and femoral
    neck (including coronal imaging), serum alkaline phosphatase, N-telopeptide cross-links
    (NTx), and C-telopeptide cross links (CTx), and to establish a Baseline from which to
    evaluate bone disease in patients between 2 and 17 years-old by MRI of the lumbar spine
    and femoral neck.
 l0
    Overall Study Design
             This is a multicenter, Phase 11/111, open-label study designed to evaluate the safety
    of velaglucerase alfa therapy for patients currently receiving imiglucerase therapy for
    type I Gaucher disease. 41 patients were enrolled to receive the same number of units of
 15 velaglucerase alfa as their imiglucerase dose. Doses ranged between 15 U/kg and 60
    U/kg. Patients had received the same dose of imiglucerase during the 6 months prior to
    study enrollment. The overall duration of the study for each patient was approximately
    14 months (from Screening through the End of Study and/or follow-up, as appropriate).
             The study was comprised of 5 phases as follows: Screening (Day -14 through Day
 ?o -4), Baseline (Day -3 through Day 0 (prior to first dose)), Treatment Phase: Week 1 (Day
    1; first dose) through Week 51 (a total of 26 infusions were administered per patient),
    End of Study Visit: Week 53, Follow-up: 30 days after the final infusion (for patients
    who discontinued/withdrew prior to the Week 53 evaluation, or for patients who
    completed this study but did not elect to enroll in the subsequent long-term clinical
25  study).
             Patients (or parent/legal guardian) who provided written informed consent
    underwent Screening evaluations within two weeks prior to their first dose to determine
    eligibility for enrollment. To determine study eligibility, a blood sample was collected
    from each patient during Screening to evaluate hemoglobin concentration and platelet
30  count.
                                                    136

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
            An additional blood sample was collected during Screening for evaluation of
    hemoglobin concentration and platelet count for statistical analysis purposes.
            Administration of the first dose of study drug was defined as Week 1 (Day 1).
    Velaglucerase alfa infusions were administered every other week for 12 months (51
  5 weeks) for a total of 26 infusions. Patients received the same number of units of
    velaglucerase alfa as their imiglucerase dose. Doses ranged between 15 U/kg and 60
    U/kg. Infusion time was 60 minutes (1 hour). Increased infusion durations (e.g., 2 hours)
    were documented in the source documentation and appropriate CRF. Infusions were not
    less than 1 hour in duration.
 I0         The first 3 velaglucerase alfa infusions for each patient were administered at the
    clinical site. Patients who did not experience a treatment-related serious adverse event or
    a velaglucerase alfa infusion-related adverse event might receive their subsequent
    infusions at home by qualified and trained medical personnel, per the discretion and
    direction of the Investigator. Patients who experienced an infusion-related adverse event
 15 might be re-evaluated at a later time point during the study for consideration to transition
    to home infusions. Patients receiving velaglucerase alfa as home therapy were required
    to return to the clinical site at Weeks 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 45, and 51 and 53.
            The study completion visit is defined as Week 53. Patients were considered to
 ?o have completed this study once they have 1) completed the 51-week treatment period,
    and 2) complete the study visits at Week 51 and Week 53.
            Patients who completed this study were provided the opportunity to enroll in a
    subsequent long-term open-label clinical study. For patients who elect to enroll in the
    subsequent long-term open-label clinical study, certain assessments from the Week 51
25  and the Week 53 visits for this study (TKT034) were used as the Baseline assessments
    for that study; patients would receive their first infusion for the subsequent long-term
    open-label clinical study at the Week 53 visit, after they completed all of the assessments
    for that visit and provided written informed consent to participate in the subsequent long
    term open-label clinical study. Therefore, it was intended that patients would receive
30  continuous velaglucerase alfa treatment across the 2 studies. Patients who completed this
    study and did not elect to enroll in the subsequent long-term open-label clinical study
                                                   137

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    would have a safety assessment (for collection of adverse events and concomitant
    medications) by site visit or telephone 30 days after their last infusion.
    Selection of Study Population
  5         All enrolled patients who received at least 1 infusion (or partial infusion) were
    included in the ITT patient population.
            Eligible participants were males or females age >2 years with diagnosed type 1
    Gaucher disease (deficient glucocerebrosidase activity in leukocytes, or by genotype
    analysis), who had received consistent treatment with imiglucerase for a minimum of 30
 10 consecutive months; one patient was allowed to participate having had 22 consecutive
    months of previous treatment with imiglucerase.
             Participants were excluded if they had both hemoglobin concentration <10 g/dL
    and platelet count <80x103 platelets/mm3 ; had unstable hemoglobin concentration
    (exceeded a range of 1 g/dL of the screening value) or platelet count (exceeded +20% of
 15 the screening value) during the 6 months prior to screening; had (or were suspected of
    having) type 2 or 3 Gaucher disease; had experienced an anaphylactic shock to
    imiglucerase; had inconsistent treatment with imiglucerase or had received miglustat in
    the 6 months prior to study entry; or had radiologically-confirmed active, clinically
    significant spleen infarction or worsening bone necrosis within 12 months of screening.
 ?0         Other exclusion criteria included treatment with any investigational drug or
    device within 30 days prior to study entry; positive test for HIV, hepatitis B or C; non
    Gaucher disease-related anemia at screening; or any significant co-morbidity that could
    affect study data. Pregnant or lactating women were excluded and women of child
    bearing potential were required to use a medically acceptable method of contraception at
25  all times.
    Study Treatments
            Treatment Assignment: Patients received velaglucerase alfa infusions every other
    week at the same number of units of as their imiglucerase dose. The patient's current
30  imiglucerase dose was recorded at Baseline. Velaglucerase alfa doses ranged between 15
    U/kg and 60 U/kg.
                                                  138

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             Treatment Schedule: Patients received their first infusion on Week 1 (Day 1).
    All patients received velaglucerase alfa once every other week for 12 months (51 weeks);
    therefore, a total of 26 infusions are to be administered.
  5          All doses of velaglucerase alfa were administered as continuous IV infusions at a
    maximum rate of 1 U/kg/minute. Infusion time was 60 minutes (1 hour). Increased
    infusion durations (e.g., 2 hours) were documented in the source documentation and
    appropriate CRF. Infusions might not be less than 1 hour in duration. Patients received
    their final imiglucerase dose a maximum of 30 days prior to study entry and a minimum
 10 of 14 days prior to study entry.
             Dose Calculation: A change in weight of > 5% from Baseline or the previously
    recorded weight used to calculate dose at Weeks 13, 25, or 37 required recalculation of
    the dose of study medication.
 15
             Dose Adjustments: Patients were monitored throughout the treatment period for
    changes in clinical parameters (i.e., hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, and liver
    and spleen volume). If a patient demonstrated a clinically significant change in these
    parameters the investigator evaluated the option of increasing the patient's dose by 15
 ?0 U/kg. A dose adjustment was considered if two or more of the following four criteria
    were met and consistent over two consecutive evaluations: decrease from Baseline in
    hemoglobin concentration of > 1g/dL; a decrease from Baseline in platelet count of >
    20%; an increase in liver volume as indicated by organ palpation and confirmed to be
    >15% relative to Baseline as measured by MRI; and an increase in spleen volume as
25  indicated by organ palpation and confirmed to be >15% relative to Baseline as measured
    by MRI.
             If the clinical parameter values did not return to Baseline levels within three
    months, the Investigator had the option of increasing the dose by increments of 15 U/kg.
    No dose increase was offered to patients receiving a dose of 60 U/kg, and no dose above
30  60 U/kg was allowed. If the patient failed to respond to the maximum dose of 60 U/kg,
                                                   139

      WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    the patient might be withdrawn if deemed appropriate based on the Investigator's clinical
    judgment.
             Velaglucerase alfa Administration
  5          General Instructions for velaglucerase alfa administration: Velaglucerase alfa was
    administered intravenously. Study drug infusions occurred on approximately the same
    day of the week but might occur every 14 days ( 3 days) of the target day in order to
    facilitate patient scheduling. If at all possible, missed infusions should be avoided. If a
    patient was not dosed within 17-days from their scheduled dose, the patient would
 10 receive the next infusion as soon as possible after approval for the patient to continue in
    the study. It might be acceptable to give the next infusion as early as 7 days after the
    previous infusion. Subsequent infusions would return to the original schedule.
             Home Infusion Instructions for Velaglucerase alfa Administration: The first three
 15 velaglucerase alfa infusions were administered at the clinical site. After the first three
    doses, patients who had not experienced a treatment-related serious adverse event or an
    infusion-related adverse event might receive their subsequent infusions at home. Patients
    who had experienced an infusion-related adverse event might be re-evaluated at a later
    time point during the study for consideration to transition to home infusions. Patients
 ?o receiving velaglucerase alfa as home therapy were required to return to the clinical site at
    Weeks 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 45, 51, and 53.
             In the home setting, vital signs and documentation of adverse events were
    collected at each visit
25           Management of Infusion-Related Adverse Events: An infusion-related adverse
    event was defined as an adverse event that 1) begins either during or within 12 hours after
    the start of the infusion, and 2) is judged as possibly or probably related to study drug.
             Description of Study Drug: Velaglucerase alfa is a lyophilized product that was
30  supplied and shipped by a qualified distributor to the clinical study site to be stored at 2
    to 8,C.
                                                    140

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
             Gaucher Disease Specific Treatment History: At Screening, all Gaucher disease
    specific treatments, including the patient's current imiglucerase dose, were recorded. The
    patient's initial velaglucerase alfa dose was based on the current imiglucerase dose
  5 recorded.
             Historical Hemoglobin and Platelet Values: All evaluations of hemoglobin
    concentration and platelet count within the 30 months prior to study entry were collected
    and reviewed to determine patient eligibility.
 10
             Gaucher Disease and Chitotriosidase Genotyping: At Screening only, all
    patients had a blood sample collected for Gaucher disease and plasma chitotriosidase
    genotyping.
 15          Vital Signs: Vital signs parameters recorded included pulse, blood pressure,
    respiration rate, and temperature.
             The following schedule was followed for recording vital signs at all infusion
    visits: start of infusion (within 10 minutes prior to starting the infusion; during infusion
    (30 minutes (5 minutes)); after infusion (within 5 minutes after the infusion is
 ?o completed, 30 minutes ( 5 minutes) after completing the infusion, and 60 minutes ( 5
    minutes) after completing the infusion)
             Physical Examinations: Physical examinations were performed at the Baseline
    visits, and at Weeks 13, 25, 37, 51 and 53. Physical examinations included the following:
25  general appearance, endocrine, head and neck, cardiovascular, eyes, abdomen, ears,
    genitourinary, nose, skin, throat, musculoskeletal, chest and lungs, and neurological. Any
    abnormal change in physical findings was recorded as an adverse event on the
    appropriate CRF page(s).
                                                  141

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
             Height and Weight: Height and weight were recorded at the Baseline visit, and at
    Weeks 13, 25, 37 and 51. Growth velocity was calculated using height and weight
    measurements, and correlated with Tanner staging.
  5          12-Lead Electrocardiograms: A 12-Lead ECG was performed at the Baseline
    visit, and at Weeks 13, 25, 37 and 51. Each 12-lead ECG included assessment of PR,
    QRS, QT, and QTc intervals, and heart rate.
             Clinical Laboratory Testing: Blood and urine samples were collected as
 10 described below for the following evaluations.
             Hematology: Blood samples were collected for hematology testing at the
    Screening and Baseline visits, and at Weeks 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 45, 51 and 53. The
    following hematology parameters were evaluated: complete blood count (CBC) with
    differential, activated partial thromboplastin time (aPPT), reticulocyte count (performed
 15 by the site's local laboratory), platelet count, and prothrombin time (PT). At Screening,
    Baseline, and at every study visit (except at the Week 1 visit), blood samples were
    collected to measure hemoglobin concentration and platelet count.
             An additional blood sample was collected during Screening to measure
    hemoglobin and platelet count for statistical analysis purposes.
 20
             Serum Chemistry: Blood samples were collected for serum chemistry testing at
    the Baseline visit, and at Weeks 13, 25, 37, 51 and 53.
             The following serum chemistry parameters were evaluated: sodium, total
    bilirubin, potassium, alkaline phosphatase*, glucose, alanine aminotransferase, total
25  calcium, aspartate aminotransferase, total protein, lactate dehydrogenase, albumin,
    Gamma-glutamyl transferase, creatinine, creatinine phosphokinase, urea nitrogen, CTx,
    NTx* (* results were used for assessments of bone biomarkers). Patients who at
    Screening had folic acid and/or vitamin B12 deficiency-related anemia, and so did not
    meet study entry criteria were considered a screen failure. These patients might be treated
30  for their folic acid and/or vitamin B12 deficiency-related anemia for up to 12 weeks at the
    Investigator's discretion, according to the clinical site's standard practice. Such patients
                                                   142

      WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    might be re-screened for this study after they completed the folic acid and/or vitamin B12
    treatment regimen.
            Urinalysis: Urine samples were collected for urinalysis at the Baseline visit, and
  5 at Weeks 13, 25, 37, 51 and 53. The following urinalysis parameters were evaluated: pH,
    microscopic evaluation, and macroscopic evaluation.
            Serum Anti-imiglucerase Antibody Determination: All patients had a blood
    sample at Baseline only for determination of serum anti-imiglucerase antibodies. Patients
 I0 were eligible for enrollment in this study regardless of their anti-imiglucerase antibody
    status. Patients who were anti-imiglucerase antibody positive would be allowed to enter
    this study. These blood samples were evaluated to determine the presence of anti
    imiglucerase antibodies.
 15         Serum Anti-velaglucerase alfa Antibody Determination: Blood samples were
    collected for determination of anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies at the Baseline visit, and
    at Weeks 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 45 and 51. Blood samples collected for anti-velaglucerase
    alfa antibody determination were evaluated. These samples were screened using an
    enzyme-linked immunosorbence assay (ELISA).
 20
            Adverse Events: Adverse events were monitored throughout the study from the
    time the patient provides signed informed consent through 30 days after their last
    infusion for patients who completed the study and did not elect to enroll in the
    subsequent long-term open-label clinical study, or for patients who discontinued or
25  withdrew from the study prior to the Week 53 visit. For patients who completed this
    study and elected to enroll in the subsequent long-term open-label clinical study, adverse
    events were monitored from informed consent through the Week 53 visit of this study
    (TKT034).
30          Prior and Concomitant Illnesses: Additional illnesses present at Baseline were
    regarded as concomitant illnesses and were documented on the appropriate medical
                                                  143

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    history pages of the CRF. Illnesses first occurring or detected during the study, or
    worsening of a concomitant illness during the study, were regarded as AEs and were
    documented as such in the CRF.
  5 Study Proceduresfor Efficacy Evaluations
             Hemoglobin concentration: Hemoglobin concentration was measured at the time
    points described herein. The change from Baseline to 12 months in hemoglobin
    concentration was a secondary endpoint of this study.
 Io          Platelet count: Platelet count was measured at the time points described herein.
    The change from Baseline to 12 months in platelet count was a secondary endpoint of
    this study.
             Liver and Spleen Volumes Measured by Abdominal MRI: Patients underwent
 15 quantitative abdominal MRI of the liver and spleen at Baseline, Week 25, and Week 51.
    The change from Baseline to 12 months in liver and spleen volume was a secondary
    endpoint of this study.
             Plasma Chitotriosidase and CCL19 Levels: Blood samples were collected for the
 ?o evaluation of plasma chitotriosidase and CCL18 levels at the Baseline visit, and at Weeks
    13, 25, 37, 51 and 53. The change from Baseline to 12 months in chitotriosidase and
    CCL18 levels was a tertiary endpoint of this study.
             Growth Velocity and Tanner Staging: For patients 2 to 17 years-old, growth was
25  assessed at the time points defined herein. Growth velocity was calculated using height
    and weight measurements recorded at regular time points during this study, and
    correlated with Tanner staging. The change from Baseline to 12 months in growth
    velocity and Tanner staging was a tertiary endpoint of this study.
30           Skeletal Growth: Patients between 2 and 17 years-old underwent radiography of
    the left hand and wrist at Baseline and Week 51 for evaluation of skeletal age. The
                                                 144

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    change from Baseline to 12 months in skeletal growth in patients 2 to 17 years of age was
    a tertiary endpoint of this study.
             Additional Study Procedures
  5          Bone Biomarkers: At Baseline only, patients > 18 years-old underwent DXA of
    the lumbar spine and femoral neck, including coronal imaging, to determine Gaucher
    related local and systemic bone disease. Bone loss and demineralization were also
    evaluated by measuring serum alkaline phosphatase, NTx, and CTx. Results for these
    parameters were obtained from blood samples collected for clinical laboratory testing at
 10 Baseline only.
             For patients 2 to 17 years-old, MRI of the femoral neck and lumbar spine were
    obtained at Baseline (at the same time patients undergo MRI of the liver and spleen).
    It was not expected that any treatment effect would be apparent for these parameters
    during this study, therefore, measurements were collected at Baseline only to establish a
 15 reference point from which to monitor these biomarkers during the subsequent long-term
    open-label clinical study.
    Adverse Events
             Adverse Event Definition: An adverse event (AE) is any noxious, pathologic, or
 ?o unintended change in anatomical, physiologic, or metabolic function as indicated by
    physical signs, symptoms, and/or laboratory changes occurring in any phase of a clinical
    study, and whether or not considered study drug-related. This includes an exacerbation of
    a pre-existing condition. Adverse events were collected from informed consent until 30
    days after the last dose of study drug and/or until the event had been resolved/stabilized
25  or an outcome was reached, whichever came first. For patients who discontinued or were
    withdrawn prior to the Week 53 visit, AEs were followed up to 30 days after their last
    infusion of velaglucerase alfa.
             AEs include: worsening (change in nature, severity, or frequency) of conditions
    present at the onset of the study; intercurrent illnesses; drug interactions; events related to
30  or possibly related to concomitant medications; abnormal laboratory values (this includes
    significant shifts from Baseline within the range of normal that the Investigator considers
                                                   145

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    to be clinically important); clinically significant abnormalities in physical examination,
    vital signs, weight, and ECG.
              In addition, AEs might also include unexpected laboratory values that become
    significantly out of range and determined to be clinically significant by the Investigator.
  5 In the event of an unexpected out-of-range value, the laboratory test would be repeated
    until it returns to normal or can be explained and the patient's safety is not at risk.
             Infusion-Related Adverse Event Definition: An infusion-related adverse event
    was defined as an adverse event that 1) begins either during or within 12 hours after the
 10 start of the infusion, and 2) is judged as possibly or probably related to study drug. Other
    AEs which occurred prior to the infusion, along with AEs associated with protocol
    defined testing and assessments (e.g., laboratory testing, ECGs, and physical
    examinations) which were performed prior to the infusion, was not be defined as
    infusion-related adverse events. Infusion-related adverse events were managed as
 15 defined above.
              Serious Adverse Event Definition: A serious AE (SAE) is any AE occurring at
    any dose that results in any of the following outcomes: death, is life-threatening, requires
    inpatient hospitalization, requires prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent or
 ?o significant disability/incapacity, and a congenital anomaly/birth defect.
              Important medical events that may not result in death, be life-threatening, or
    require hospitalization may be considered as SAEs when, based upon appropriate medical
    judgment, they may jeopardize the patient and may require medical or surgical
    intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above.
25            A life-threatening AE is defined as an AE that placed the patient, in the view of
    the initial reporter, at immediate risk of death from the AE as it occurred (i.e., it does not
    include an AE that, had it occurred in a more severe form, might have caused death).
              Classification of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events: The National
30  Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) Version 3.0 grading scale was
    referenced when assessing the severity of an AE. If an AE was not described in the NCI
                                                   146

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    CTC, the severity was recorded based on the scale below. The severity of all AEs/SAEs
    were recorded on the appropriate CRF page as Grade 1, 2, 3 or 4 corresponding,
    respectively, to a severity of mild, moderate, severe, or life-threatening. Grade 1 (mild)
    is defined as no limitation of usual activities. Grade 2 (moderate) is defined as some
  5 limitation of usual activities; Grade 3 (severe) is defined as inability to carry out usual
    activities; and Grade 4 (life-threatening) is defined as immediate risk of death.
             Relationship of an adverse event or serious adverse event to blinded study
    medication was determined by the Investigator based on the following definitions. "Not
    related" is defined as unrelated to study drug. "Possibly related" is defined as a clinical
 I0 event/laboratory abnormality with a reasonable time sequence to administration of study
    drug, but which could also be explained by concurrent disease or other drugs/chemicals.
    "Probably related" is defined as a clinical event/laboratory abnormality with a reasonable
    time sequence to administration of study drug, unlikely to be attributable to concurrent
    disease or other drugs and chemicals and which follows a clinically reasonable response
 15 on dechallenge. The association of the clinical event/laboratory abnormality must also
    have some biologic plausibility, at least on theoretical grounds.
             Clarification between Serious and Severe: The term "severe" is often used to
    describe the intensity (severity) of a specific event (as in mild, moderate, or severe
 ?o myocardial infarction); the event itself, however, may be of relatively minor medical
    significance (such as severe headache). This is not the same as "serious," which is based
    on the outcome or action criteria usually associated with events that pose a threat to life
    or functioning. Seriousness (not severity) and causality serve as a guide for defining
    regulatory reporting obligations.
25
             Adverse Event Monitoring and Period of Observation: For the purposes of this
    study, the period of observation extended from the time the patient provides signed
    informed consent until the patient's final evaluation of the study. For safety purposes, the
    final evaluation was defined as the post-study safety evaluation performed approximately
30  30 days after the last infusion for patients who completed the study and did not elect to
    enroll in the subsequent long-term open-label clinical study, or for patients who
                                                   147

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    discontinued or withdrew from the study prior to Week 53. For patients who elected to
    enroll in the subsequent long-term open-label clinical study, adverse events were
    monitored until Week 53; adverse events that had not resolved as of the Week 53 visit for
    this study were recorded in the patient's medical history for the subsequent long-term
  5 open-label clinical study.
    StatisticalMethods
             General Statistical Methodology: The intent-to-treat (ITT) patient population was
    defined as all enrolled patients who received at least one infusion (full or partial
 10 infusion). Statistical data analyses were performed on the ITT population. Continuous
    data collected at Baseline and at subsequent study visits were summarized using
    descriptive statistics (n, mean, median, minimum, maximum, and standard deviation).
    Categorical data were summarized as frequencies and percentages. Descriptive statistics
    were presented for all patients in the ITT population according to demographic and
 15 Baseline characteristics.
             Analysis of the secondary endpoints (i.e., clinical parameters) was based on a
    non-inferiority hypothesis as described below.
             Sample Size Justification: This was a safety trial, and it was difficult to identify a
 ?o single primary safety outcome variable for the study. However, the sample size selected
    which was based on the efficacy parameters was suitable for the evaluation of less
    common adverse effects.
             The inclusion of at least 26 patients provided basic information on safety and
    tolerability. From the TKT025 study, the average change at 6 months across patients
25  does not indicate any worsening of adverse events (AEs) from Baseline. Some patients
    will have their AEs resolved, some patients a worsening of their AEs. Assuming the
    natural variability of the patients, then the chance of seeing a worsening for a single
    patient is 11%. This 11% failure rate is for one patient. The likelihood that all 26 patients
    in the trial will not have an SAE is equal to the likelihood of patient 1 not having an SAE
30  multiplied by the likelihood of patient 2 not having an SAE multiplied by ( ... etc .. .)
    the likelihood of patient 26 not having an SAE. That is 95% likelihood that at least one
                                                   148

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    patient out of 26 will show a worsening of an AE from Baseline [1 -     (.89)26 =  0.95]. In
    other words, for a sample size of 26, the probability of observing at least one event will
    be 0.95, when the probability of the event is 0.11. Or, when no events are observed, to
    obtain an upper bound of 0.11 on the 95% confidence interval to the probability of a rare
  5 event, would require a sample size of 26.
            The null hypothesis is that the mean changes from Baseline (i.e., the end of
    imiglucerase treatment) to Month 12 for each of the selected clinical parameters
    (hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, liver and spleen volumes) are within the pre
    specified clinically significantly values. Clinically significant changes from Baseline to
 I0 Week 53 for hemoglobin was defined as a change of no less than 1 gm/dL, and a 20%
    change in platelet count. For normalized liver and spleen volume, the changes from
    Baseline to Week 53 were defined as being no more than 15% increase. The sample size
    estimate of 26 patients was based on a paired t-test of means, with a standard deviation of
    0.671 with a two-sided alpha level of 0.05, and 80% power.
 15
            Primary Analysis: All patients who received at least one full or partial dose of
    study drug were assessed for clinical safety and tolerability. Vital signs, clinical
    chemistry and hematology that were collected for safety monitoring were listed for each
    patient and abnormal values were flagged. For categorical variables such as AEs, the
 ?o number and percentage of patients experiencing each AE were tabulated. AEs were
    summarized by severity of event. The number and percentage of patients experiencing
    drug related AEs and AEs that were not considered related to study drug were also
    displayed. Infusion-related adverse events reactions and rates of anti-velaglucerase alfa
    antibody formation were also summarized.
25          The primary clinical variable was to evaluate the safety of velaglucerase alfa
    administered every other week to patients with type I Gaucher disease who were
    clinically stable on imiglucerase. Safety was evaluated by assessing vital signs and
    documenting adverse events (by type, frequency, and severity) at each study visit, as well
    as by performance of physical examinations and changes in laboratory assessments at
30  required visits.
                                                  149

     WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
             All AEs were coded using MedDRA Coding Dictionary. AE summaries in
    general were based on all AEs occurring after the patient's first infusion of study drug
    (treatment-emergent).
  5          Secondary Analyses: Secondary endpoints of this study are: change from
    Baseline to 12 months in hemoglobin concentration; change from Baseline to 12 months
    in platelet count; change from Baseline to 12 months in spleen volume by abdominal
    MRI (evaluated as % change) (Spleen volumes were normalized by body weight); and
    change from Baseline to 12 months in liver volume by abdominal MRI (evaluated as %
 10 change) (Liver volumes were normalized by body weight).
             For each clinical activity parameter, the alternative hypothesis is that the mean
    change from Baseline (i.e., the end of imiglucerase treatment) to Month 12 was within
    the specified clinically significant levels for the parameters to be evaluated (where the
    population mean change from Baseline for hemoglobin is within 1 g/dL, the platelet
 15 count is within 20%, and the liver and spleen volumes are within 15%. This was
    evaluated using a 2-sided 90% confidence interval for the true difference from Baseline
    for these clinical parameters. For example, efficacy of velaglucerase alfa was concluded
    if the confidence interval for the change from Baseline of hemoglobin was within the
    interval -1 to 1 g/dL.
 ?o          The Sponsor's expectation is that the mean hemoglobin concentration was
    essentially constant over the 12-month period. For example, instead of using a 90%
    confidence interval for secondary efficacy analysis for hemoglobin, the following pair of
    statistical hypothesis tests, each at an alpha level of 0.05, could be used.
             Hol: td    1 Vs Hu: td <1
25           Ho2: td -1 Vs H21:      sd > -1
             By rejecting the first null hypothesis (Hoi) in favor of the first alternative
    hypothesis (H1 1 ), one concludes at the 0.05 significance level that the treatment mean
    change from Baseline for hemoglobin is less than 1 g/dL higher than the Baseline value.
    By rejecting the second null hypothesis (H02 ) in favor of the second alternative
30  hypothesis (H 2 1), one concludes at the 0.05 significance level that the treatment mean
    change from Baseline for hemoglobin is greater than 1 g/dL lower than the Baseline
                                                   150

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    value. Because Hoi and H0 2 cannot be simultaneously true, the overall Type I error rate is
    0.05 for the above pair of hypothesis tests. Therefore, by rejecting both null hypotheses
    in favor of the alternative hypotheses, one concludes at the 0.05 significance level that the
    treatment (velaglucerase alfa) hemoglobin concentration is within is within the interval
  5 1 to 1 g/dL.
            The sponsor considers the confidence interval method to be easier to interpret
    than the corresponding method using hypothesis tests. Therefore the confidence interval
    method will be used for the secondary inference.
 10         Tertiary Analyses: The tertiary endpoints for this study are: change from Baseline
    to 12 months in plasma chitotriosidase and CCL18 levels; change from Baseline to 12
    months in skeletal age in patients 2 to 17 years old; and change from Baseline to 12
    months in growth velocity and Tanner staging.
            The tertiary endpoints were summarized using descriptive statistics (mean,
 15 median, standard deviation, minimum and maximum) at each time point. For endpoints
    where data were collected at Baseline and other time points during the study, the within
    group changes were examined.
            Analysis of Subgroups: Additional analyses were conducted specifically for
 ?o patients between 2 to 17 years old. Also, consideration was given in the analysis to
    disease severity with regard to hemoglobin Baseline values.
    Results
            40 patients were included in the intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis (Table 19), and 38
25  patients (93%) completed the study. One patient discontinued before receiving study
    drug; and two patients in the 15 U/kg group discontinued, one due to an anaphylactoid
    reaction during her first infusion with velaglucerase alfa, and one at Week 31 because of
    a perceived lack of improvement in Gaucher-related symptoms.
            Patients received velaglucerase alfa at the same number of units to their prior
30  imiglucerase regimen. Median prior imiglucerase use was 67 months (range 22-192
    months). Velaglucerase alfa doses were grouped into four ranges: <22.5 U/kg (n=14),
                                                  151

    WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
  22.5-37.5 U/kg (n=12), 37.5-52.5 U/kg (n=7), and >52.5 U/kg (n=7). Investigators had
  the option to increase the velaglucerase alfa dose (to a maximum of 60 U/kg every other
  week) if a patient demonstrated a clinically significant change in hemoglobin or platelet
  counts. No dose adjustments were made during the study.
5
  Table 19 TKT034 Patient characteristics at baseline
                                                ITT population (n=40)
  Age, mean (range)                             36 years (9-71 years); 25% <18 years
  Gender, n (%)                                 18 (45%) male / 22 (55%) female
  Clinical parameters, median (range)
  Hemoglobin                                    13.8 g/dL (10.4-16.5 g/dL)
  Platelet count                                162 x 109/L (29-399 x 109/L)
  Liver volume*                                 0.8 MN (0.6-1.6 MN)
  Spleen volume**                               2.5 MN (1.0-16.0 MN)
  Biomarkers, median
  Chitotriosidase                               3071.3 nmol/mL/h
  C-C motif ligand 18 chemokine (CCL18)         325.0 ng/mL
  Prior imiglucerase use, median (range)        67 months (22-192 months)
  Anti-imiglucerase antibody positive prior     3 (8%)
  to receiving velaglucerase alfa, n (%)
  * A normal liver volume is 2.5% of body weight.
  **In 36 patients with spleen intact; four patients had undergone a splenectomy prior to
  enrollment. A normal spleen volume is 0.2% of body weight. MN=multiples of normal.
                                                152

     WO 2011/017177                                                                  PCT/US2010/043586
             Clinical parameters were sustained at therapeutic levels through 1 year (Table
    20).
  5          Table 20
                                    Baseline    Mean change or %                               Clinically
                               n    median     change from baseline       90% CI          significant cutoffs
                                                   to month 12
    Hemoglobin
    concentration (g/dL)      40      10.8               -0.1              -0.3, 0.1              -1, 1
    Platelet count (x109/L)   40      162                7.0%           0.5%, 13.5%           -20%, 20%
    Normalized liver volume   40       1.9               0.0%           -2.6%,2.6%            -15%,15%
    (% of body weight)
    Normalized spleen
    volume                    36      0.5               -5.6%          -10.8%, -0.4%          -15%, 15%
    (% of body weight)      I     I          I                      II
             Velaglucerase alfa was generally well tolerated, with most adverse events (AEs)
    of mild or moderate severity (Table 21). The most frequently reported AEs were
 10 nasopharyngitis (8/40 patients), arthralgia (9/40 patients), and headache (12/40 patients).
    Overall, 11 of 40 patients (28%) experienced an AE considered possibly or probably
    related to study drug; the majority of these events were considered infusion related. No
    patient experienced a life-threatening AE. One severe adverse event was considered
    probably related to treatment and occurred in a patient who had a severe hypersensitivity
15  reaction. This patient tested negative for all 4 isotypes (IgE, IgM, IgG, IgA), including
    neutralizing antibodies, both at the time of the infusion and 2 weeks later. One patient (in
    the 15 U/kg group) experienced an anaphylactoid reaction that led to discontinuation; no
    other patients discontinued due to AEs. No patients developed IgG antibodies to
    velaglucerase alfa, including three patients who tested positive for anti-imiglucerase alfa
20  antibodies at screening.
                                                    153

          WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
         Table 21 TKT034 Safety summary
                                                                         Patients, n (%)
                                                      Total     15 U/kg      30 U/kg     45 U/kg    60 U/kg
                                                     (n=40)      (n=15)       (n=12)      (n=6)      (n=7)
   Experienced 21 treatment-emergent AE*             34 (85)     12 (80)     11 (92)      5 (83)     6 (86)
   Experienced 21 drug-related AE                    11 (28)      6 (40)      3 (25)      1 (17)     1 (14)
   Experienced 21 infusion-related AEt                9(23)       6(40)       2 (17)         0       1 (14)
   Experienced 21 severe AE                           5(13)         0         2 (17)      1 (17)     2(29)
   Experienced 21 life-threatening AE                    0          0            0           0          0
   Experienced 21 serious AE                          4 (10)       1 (7)       1 (8)      2 (33)        0
   Discontinued due to an AE                           1 (3)       1 (7)         0           0          0
   Deaths                                                0          0            0           0          0
   Developed anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies          0          0            0           0          0
         *A treatment-emergent AEs was defined AEs that occurred on or after the day of the first
         infusion until 30 days after the patient's last infusion.
         tAn infusion-related AE was defined as an AE that 1) began either during or within 12
 5       hours after the start of the infusion, and 2) was judged as possibly or probably related to
         study drug.
                 The first three infusions for each patient were administered at the clinical site,
         after which patients who had not experienced a drug-related serious AE or an infusion
10       related AE were eligible to receive subsequent infusions at home. During the study, 25
         (63%) of 40 eligible patients received home therapy at least once, ten patients (67%) in
         the 15 U/kg group, six (50%) in the 30 U/kg group, five (83%) in the 45 U/kg group, and
         four (57%) in the 60 U/kg group.
                 For hemoglobin concentration, the mean change from Baseline was -0.1 g/dL,
15       with a 90% confidence interval of -0.3 to 0.1 g/dL, within the predefined efficacy
         criterion of 1 g/dL. For platelet counts, the percent change from Baseline was +7.0%,
         with a 90% confidence interval of 0.5 to 13.5%, within the predefined efficacy criterion
                                                          154

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    of 20%. For liver volume, the percent change from Baseline was -0.0%, with a 90%
    confidence interval of -2.6 to 2.6% within the predefined efficacy criterion of 15%. For
    spleen volume, the percent change from Baseline was -5.6%, with a 90% confidence
    interval of -10.8 to -0.4% within the predefined efficacy criterion of 15%. Hemoglobin
  5 concentration, platelet counts, and liver and spleen volume were sustained at therapeutic
    levels through 1 year of velaglucerase alfa treatment, as demonstrated by pre-specified
    efficacy criteria for clinically significant change. Mean change in hemoglobin and mean
    percent change in platelet count and organ volumes are shown in FIGS. 15-18. For each
    parameter, similar results were seen across the four dose groups.
 I0         The percent change in plasma chitotriosidase and plasma CCL18 are shown in
    FIGS. 19 and 20. Levels of both biomarkers were sustained and possibly reduced over
    the 12-month treatment period.
    Example 5: HGT-GCB-058 Study
 |5 Summary
            HGT-GCB-058 is a multicenter, open-label treatment study to observe the safety
    of velaglucerase alfa in patients with Gaucher disease type 1 who were newly diagnosed
    (treatment naive) or transitioned from imiglucerase to velaglucerase alfa. The study
    design was for male or female patients two years old or older. Velaglucerase was
 ?o administered at a dose of 15-60 U/kg every other week (EOW) by 1-hour intravenous
    (IV) infusion- Patients received the same number of units of velaglucerase alfa as their
    prior imiglucerase dose (patients receiving <15 U/kg imiglucerase EOW received 15
    U/kg velaglucerase alfa). The rate of infusion was a maximum of 1 U/kg/minute.
25  Patientsand methods
             HGT-GCB-058 was initiated to provide an alternative treatment option for
    patients who would otherwise have limited or no access to imiglucerase due to supply
    constraints. The primary endpoint was to observe the safety of velaglucerase alfa.
            For HGT-GCB-058, within 3 months of the first site initiated, 20 clinical sites
30  across the US were enrolling patients. Between September 1, 2009 and January 31, 2010
    more than 150 patients enrolled onto HGT-GCB-058 and received at least one infusion of
                                                    155

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    velaglucerase alfa. Only 3 patients were treatment naive; all others were previously
    treated with imiglucerase.
    Preliminarysafety results
  5          Discontinued: <10%; Withdrawal of consent & other (<10%); AE experience
    including SAE (<2%).
             Treatment emergent adverse events (TE-AE):
             Treatment naive patients (n=3): No serious AEs; no severe AEs; two patients
    experienced moderate AEs: headache (moderate) and back pain (moderate) (infusion
 10 related - possibly related)
             Previously treated with imiglucerase (n>150): 35.8% at least one TE-AE; 18.2%
    at least one possibly/probably related TE-AE; 13.8% at least one infusion related
    reaction; <1% - serious AE (a 69-year-old female experienced a severe cerebrovascular
    accident requiring hospitalization) not related; 3.1% - at least one severe AE: arthralgia
 15 (not related), fatigue (probably related), bone pain (not related), pain in extremity (not
    related), leucopenia (possibly related), cerebrovascular accident (not related).
    Example 6: Comparative Study
             The objective of this example is to compare the efficacy of Ceredase@,
 ?o Cerezyme@, veluglucerase alfa, Genz- 112638, and Zavesca@ in treating type 1 Gaucher
    disease. Hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, liver volume, and spleen volumes
    were measured after 6, 9, or 12 months of treatment.
            Doses: Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT): 60U/kg EOW; Genz1 12638: 50 &
    100 mg BID; Zavesca: 100 mg TID
25          Ratio of Males to Females: Cerezyme (8 to 7); Ceredase (3 to 2); Velaglucerase
    Ph I/I TKT025 study (5 to 7); Velaglucerase-TKT032 study-45U/kg dose (8 to 5);
    Velaglucerase-TKT032 study-60U/kg dose (7 to 5); Zavesca (I to 1); Genz-112638 (3 to
    4)
            Inclusion criteria:
30           Cerezyme & Ceredase: anemia & splenomegaly
             Velaglucerase TKT025: anemia and thrombocytopenia
                                                  156

    WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
            Genz-112638: anemia, thromb, & splenomegaly
            Zavesca dose: organomegaly & <100/nL P1 or <11.5 Hb
            Velaglucerase HGT-GCB-039 and TKT032: anemia and 1 other parameter
   manifestation
 5          Baseline comparison in naive patients is shown in Table 22.
            Table 22
                    Hemoglobin      Platelets      Liver Vol.   Spleen Vol.
                       (g/dL)      (cells / nL)     MN (L)         MN (L)
   Ceredase@             10.8           71            1.83           24
   Cerezyme@             10.7           72            1.65            19
   Velaglucerase         11.6           57        1.95 (2.4L)     19 (2.1L)
   (Ph 1/11
   TKT025)
   Velaglucerase         10.9           58         3.50 (% of    2.90 (% of
   (TKT032-                                      body weight) body weight)
   45U/kg dose)
   Velaglucerase        10.83           66         3.60 (% of    2.90 (% of
   (TKT032)                                      body weight) body weight)
   60U/kg dose
   Genz-112638            11            70             1.7            19
     avesca@             11.9           77           (2.4L)        (1.6L)
            MN=Multiple of Normal
10          Comparative results from patients treated with Ceredase@, Cerezyme@,
   velaglucerase alfa, or Genz- 112638 for six months are shown in Table 23.
                                                157

    WO 2011/017177                                                                 PCT/US2010/043586
           Table 23
                   Mean Spleen       Mean Liver          Mean               Mean
                      Volume           Volume           Platelet       Hemoglobin
                    Reduction        Reduction          Increase          Increase
                        (%)              (%)         (%) [actual]          (g/dL)
   Ceredase@         32.1   8.8       11.4   9.4       34 [16 /nL]           1.60
   6mo
   Cerezyme@'       37.3    13.6     13.4    13.1      22 [23 /nL]           1.82
   6mo
   velaglucerase2    41.3   9.8      14.7    12.0          38            1.92  0.82
   6mo (n=11)                                      [23.4  24.6 /nL]
   Genz-112638 3         27                7         18 [12.5 /nL4 ]         0.9
   6mo (n=17-21)
           1 Cerezyme and Ceredase data as reported by Grabowski et al. (1995) Ann.
   Intern. Med.122, 33-39.
           -Mean increase in platelet count in cells/nL for Cerezyme and Ceredase are from
 5 the Cerezyme SBA.
           2 velaglucerase alfa Phase 1/11 results
           3 Oppenheimer Analyst Report: May 8, 2008 from Genzyme Analyst Day 2008
           4 Calculated by multiplying baseline by percent change
           ERT administered at 60U/kg EOW, Genz 112638 administered at 50 & 100mg
10 BID
           Comparative results from patients treated with Ceredase@, Cerezyme@,
   velaglucerase alfa, or Genz- 112638 for nine and twelve months are shown in Table 24.
15         Table 24
                              Mean Spleen         Mean Liver         Mean Platelet         Mean
                                  Volume            Volume           Increase (%)       Hemoglobin
                             Reduction (%)       Reduction (%)          [actual]      Increase (g/dL)
   Ceredasel 9mo (n=15)          42.2  6.9        16.4  8.4             53.2             2.28
                                                   158

    WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
                                                                   [25.1 /nL]
   Cerezvme' 9mo (n=15)        47.1  13.7     21.4     10.8          43.5              2.54
                                                                   [30.9 /nL]
   velaglucerase 2 9mo         49.5  12.6      18.2    8.2           67.6          2.24    0.89
   (n=11)                                                     [40.6  30.7 /nL]
   Velaglucerase 3 lyr        not available   not available       95.3  21.2        2.35    0.3
   (n=10)                                                        [54.9  11.1]
   Velaglucerase 4 lyr         50.4  5.3       17.0  4.5        65.9  16.9        2.43    0.3
   (n=12)                                                       [50.88  12.2]
   Velaglucerase 5 lyr                                               40.92              2.44
   (n=10)
   Genz-1126383 5 lyr               40               17          40 [26 /nL4]            1.6
   (n=11-13)
           1 Cerezyme and Ceredase 9-Mo data as reported by Grabowski et al. (1995) Ann.
   Intern. Med.122, 33-39. Dose was 60U/kg every other week (EOW).
            -Mean increase in platelet count in cells/nL calculated from raw data
           2 velaglucerase alfa 9-Mo data from TKT025 (Ph 1/11) - 60U/kg dose EOW
 5         3 velaglucerase alfa 12-Mo data from TKT025Extension - 60U/kg dose EOW
           4 velaglucerase alfa 12 Mo data from TKT032 - 60U/kg dose dose EOW
           5 velaglucerase afa 12 Mo data from TKT032 - 45U/kg dose EOW
           3 WORLD meeting presentation, Feb. 20, 2009 - administered at 50 & 100 mg
   BID
10         Conclusions: this study shows that velaglucerase alfa was at least as effective as
   Ceredase@, Cerezyme@, Genz- 112638, and Zavesca@ in treating type 1 Gaucher disease
   based on the measurement of hemoglobin concentration, platelet count, liver volume, and
   spleen volume, 6, 9, or 12 months after the treatment was initiated.
                                                 159

     WO 2011/017177                                                        PCT/US2010/043586
    Example 7: Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) Assays
    Summary
            Development of antibodies to therapeutic proteins can impact patient safety,
  5 efficacy and drug pharmacokinetics. A panel of anti-drug antibody (ADA) and
    neutralizing antibody (NAb) assays were developed and validated in order to evaluate
    and compare antibody response in patients receiving velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase in
    one of three velaglucerase alfa Phase III studies.
            Assessment of potential immunogenicity of a biological therapy such as enzyme
 10 replacement therapy (ERT) was performed by the following steps:
                1. Screen for antibody to the ERT
                         i. Allow for false positives
                        ii. Broad specificity for all isotypes
                       iii. Tolerant to presence of drug
 15             2. Confirmatory step
                         i. Rule out false positives
                        ii. Isotype specific
                3. Titer step
                         i. Relative concentration
 ?o             4. Test for neutralizing antibody
                         i. In vitro activity
                        ii. In vitro cellular uptake
            This assessment can be performed for any ERT.
            An example of such an assessment is shown in FIG. 21.
25
    Immunoassay methods
             Anti-velaglucerase alfa and anti-imiglucerase antibodies were evaluated
    identically using bridge immunoassays and immunoglobulin (Ig) subclass-specific
    indirect immunoassays, all based on an electrochemiluminescent platform, as well as RIP
30  assays. The bridge electrochemiluminescent immunoassay detected all immunoglobulin
    subclasses and was considered the antibody screening assay. The Ig subclass
                                                   160

     WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
    electrochemiluminescent immunoassays were confirmatory assays for the presence of
    IgA, IgM and IgE antibodies, while the RIP assay was confirmatory for the presence of
    IgG antibodies. The antibody screening assays and IgG assays were calibrated,
    quantitative and utilized human antibody positive controls. The IgA, IgM and IgE assays
  5 were semi-quantitative and utilized hybrid (human-sheep) positive controls.
            All anti-velaglucerase alfa and anti-imiglucerase immunoassays were identical,
    including positive cut off criteria, except that either velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase
    were used to interrogate the sample. These assays are high throughput, provide increased
    surface area for detection, allow use of high serum sample concentration with minimum
 10 non-specific binding and detect all antibody subclasses.
    Antibody screening assays
            As shown in FIG. 22, anti-drug antibody screening can be performed using an
    electrochemilluminescence (ECL) immunoassay.
 15         Anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase) antibodies were detected using
    immobilized biotin-conjugated velaglucerase alfa (or imiglucerase) on streptavidin
    coated microwell plates. Immobilized biotinylated velaglucerase alfa (or imiglucerase)
    captured anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase) antibodies present in patients' sera
    and unbound proteins were removed by washing. Ruthenium complex-labeled
 ?0 velaglucerase alfa (or imiglucerase) was added to each microwell resulting in the
    formation of a complex with the bound anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase)
    antibodies. This was followed by a second wash step, in which unbound labeled proteins
    were removed.
            Labeled molecules bound near the microwell surface emit light in a process
25  triggered by the electrochemiluminescent reaction, measured by an MSD SECTOR
    Imager 2400 instrument
    (http://www.mesoscale.com/CatalogSystemWeb/WebRoot/products/imager_2400.aspx).
    A mouse monoclonal antibody with cross-reactivity to velaglucerase alfa and
    imiglucerase was used as a calibrator within each assay plate and a human anti
30  imiglucerase antibody cross-reactive with velaglucerase alfa was use as positive assay
    control. The concentration of anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase) antibodies in test
                                                   161

    WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
   samples was estimated by interpolating the unknown's measured
   electrochemiluminescent signal on the calibration curve.
           A minimum of 67 Gaucher patient baselines were tested in order to set the
   antibody positive cut points for these assays. The test design included at least three
 5 analysts testing replicate samples using different plate lot numbers over a period of at
   least 14 days. At least three different microwell plate lots were used. Two available MSD
   instruments were used randomly for a total of 1269 determinations for each assay. The
   assay cut point for anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase) antibodies was established
   as the mean plus 1.645 standard deviation of electrochemiluminescent values obtained as
I0 recommended in Mire-Sluis, AR et al. Journalof Immunological Methods 289 (2004), pp
   1-16. The assay sensitivity was estimated to be 33.4 and 65.6 ng/mL for anti
   velaglucerase alfa and anti-imiglucerase antibodies, respectively.
           The screening characteristics for this assay (using velaglucerase as the drug) are
   shown in Table 25.
15         The specification for each parameter shows highly sensitive and reproducible
   ADA screening assays were validated for evaluating antibody response in patients
   receiving velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase.
           Table 25
           Parameter                           Specification
           Imprecision, % RSD
           Intra assay                         <6.2
           Inter assay                         <8.5
           Accuracy, %                         93.5  - 107.7
           Sensitivity,1 ng/mL                  100
           LOD,2 ng/mL                         5
           LOQ, ng/mL                           15
           Positive controls                   Human & sheep ADA
           Calibrator                          Mouse monoclonal ADA
                                                 162

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
             ADA = anti-drug antibody; LOD = limits of detection; LOQ = limit of
    quantification; RSD = relative standard deviation
             The screening assay dose response curve for velaglucerase is shown in FIG. 23.
  5          An example of the affinity and binding kinetics of a monoclonal ADA on the
    BIACORE@ platform are shown in Table 26. Similar ligand affinity and binding
    kinetics were observed for the ADA assay calibrator.
             Table 26
              Ligand               ka (1/Ms)           kd (1/s)        KD (M)
         velagucerase alfa          9.2E+05            2.7E-04          3.OE-10
           imiglucerase             2.8E+06            1.OE-04          3.7E-10
           Biotinylated             4.OE+05            2.2E-04          5.4E-10
        velaglucerase alfa
           Biotinylated             2.OE+06            9.5E-04          4.8E-10
           imiglucerase
 |0
    Radioimmunoprecipitationassay
             If anti-drug antibody is detected in a sample, confirmatory assays to determine the
    Ig isotype of the antibody can be performed. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies were
15  detected using radioimmunoprecipitation. A radioimmunoprecipitation (RIP) assay is
    shown in FIG. 24.
             In the radioimmunoprecipitation assay, anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase)
    IgG antibodies present in patient serum bound 12I-velaglucerase alfa (or imiglucerase) in
    solution phase and formed antigen/antibody complexes that were captured using Protein
20  G mini-columns. The mini-columns were washed to remove free label and quantified
    directly in a gamma counter. The radioactive counts retained in the mini-column were
                                                   163

    WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
   proportional to the concentration of anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase) IgG
   antibodies in the test sample. The concentration of anti-velaglucerase alfa (anti
   imiglucerase) IgG antibodies in test samples was estimated from a calibration curve using
   the same monoclonal antibody calibrator discussed above. The same human antibody
 5 positive control described above was used in this assay.
             The least squares line fit to the high purity, monoclonal antibody based calibration
   curve, using well characterized known concentrations of antibody, provided a reliable
   and consistent method for calculating uncertainty in assay determinations. This tool
   allows for normalization of the cut point for inter-assay changes in counts that may occur
10 from reagent radiolabel decay, radioautolysis and/or assay handling variability as well as
   allowing for changes in non specific binding and for changing assay readouts that may
   occur over time.
             A total of 59 Gaucher patient baselines were tested in order to set the antibody
   positive cut point for this assay. The assay cut points for anti-velaglucerase alfa
15 (imiglucerase) IgG were established as described above and recommended in Mire-Sluis
   et a12 . Assay sensitivity was estimated to be 28.3 and 64.5 ng/mL for the anti
   velaglucerase alfa IgG and anti-imiglucerase IgG assays, respectively.
             An example of the results obtained with such an assay using velaglucerase as the
   drug is shown in Table 27.
?0           Highly sensitive and reproducible IgG ADA confirmatory assays were validated
   for evaluating antibody response in patients receiving velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase.
             Table 27
             Parameter                                  Specification
             Imprecision, % RSD
             Intra assay                                <8.7
             Inter assay                                <12.0
             Accuracy, %                                90.5 - 132.8
             Sensitivity,1 ng/mL                        80
             LOD,2 ng/mL                                4
             LOQ, ng/mL                                 13
                                                    164

      WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
            Positive controls                         Human & sheep ADA
            Calibrator                                Mouse monoclonal ADA
            ADA = anti-drug antibody; LOD = limits of detection; LOQ = limit of
    quantification; RSD = relative standard deviation
            An example of a dose response curve obtained for a RIP assay using
  5 velaglucerase is shown in FIG. 25.
    Indirect electrochemiluminescentimmunoassays
            Parallel to screening for IgG antibodies, assays are performed to screen for the
    presence of IgE antibodies. Assays can also be performed to detect the presence of IgA
 10 and IgM antibodies.
            IgA, IgM, and IgE ADA were detected using ECL assays. An example of such an
    assay is shown in FIG. 26.
            Anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) antibodies were analyzed for their Ig
    subclass using indirect electrochemiluminescent immunoassays. Antibodies were
 15 detected in serum by immobilizing biotinylated velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) on
    streptavidin-coated microwell plates. Diluted serum samples were added to the
    immobilized velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase), which captured any anti-velaglucerase
    alfa (anti-imiglucerase) antibodies present in the sample. After sample incubation, the
    microwells were washed to remove unbound proteins. Next, ruthenium complex-labeled
20  anti-human secondary antibodies against IgA, IgM or IgE were added separately and
    further incubated resulting in the formation of an Ig class-specific complex with any
    bound anti-velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase antibodies. This was followed by another
    wash step, in which unbound labeled secondary antibody was removed. The labeled
    molecules bound near the microwell surface then emit light as described above.
25          Artificial antibody positive controls were prepared for these assays since anti
    velaglucerase alfa (anti-imiglucerase) IgA, IgM or IgE antibodies were not available.
    Human IgA-, IgM- and IgE-antibody hybrids were synthesized by chemically cross
    linking purified, non-specific human IgA, IgM or IgE fragments to an antibody raised in
    sheep hyperimmunized with velaglucerase alfa and cross-reactive with imiglucerase. The
                                                  165

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    IgA-, IgM- and IgE-antibody hybrids therefore bound to velaglucerase alfa (or
    imiglucerase) through the sheep antibody domain, and were detected using ruthenium
    complex-tagged anti-human secondary antibodies against the human IgA, IgM or IgE
    domains, respectively.
  5         The assay cut points for anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) IgA, IgM and IgE
    were established as described above and recommended in Mire-Sluis et a12 . Assay
    sensitivity was estimated to be 10.6 and 11.0 ng/mL for the anti-velaglucerase alfa IgE
    and anti-imiglucerase IgE assays, respectively. For anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase)
    IgA and IgM antibodies, the assay positive cut points had to be met in addition to a ratio
 10 greater than or equal to 2.0 of the time point signal to the pre-infusion baseline signal.
            For these assays, hybrid positive controls can be used. For example:
            - Sheep ADA IgG, and human IgA, IgM and IgE are treated to yield pyridylthiol
    activated proteins (see Gu M. L., Feng S. L., and Glenn J. K. Development of an animal
 15 human antibody complex for use as a control in ELISA. J. Pharmaceuticaland
    BiomedicalAnalysis, 32 (2003), 523-529)
            - Activated IgA, IgM and IgE are reduced and desalted
            - Activated IgG is mixed with reduced IgA, IgM or IgE
            - The formed hybrid antibodies were characterized by size exclusion
 ?o chromatography and ECL ELISA
            - Human/sheep molar ratios of 5 for IgA and IgM, and 2 for IgE were obtained
            An example of IgA, IgM and IgE confirmatory assay characteristics (when
    velaglucerase was used as the drug) are shown in Table 28.
            Highly sensitive and reproducible IgA, IgM, and IgE ADA isotyping assays were
25  validated for evaluating antibody response in patients receiving velaglucerase alfa or
    imiglucerase.
                                                  166

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
            Table 28
           Parameter4              IgA Assay         IgM Assay         IgE Assay
                                  Specification    Specification     Specification
       Imprecision, % RSD
            Intra assay               <3.1               <6.2             <6.6
            Inter assay               <4.8               <3.7            <13.3
            Specificity            a-chain Fc         V-chain Fc       g-chain Fc
        Linearity,' ng/mL          156-2000          156-2500         156-10000
        LOD, 2 ECL counts             260                460              240
        Positive controls3        Hybrid ADA       Hybrid ADA        Hybrid ADA
             based on hybrid control response; positive cut point; ratio of time point to
    baseline must be >2 .0; human/sheep ADA hybrid controls; 4highly sensitive and
  5 reproducible IgA, IgM and IgE ADA isotyping assays were validated for evaluating
    antibody response in patients receiving velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase
            ADA = anti-drug antibody; LOD = limits of detection; LOQ = limit of
    quantification; RSD = relative standard deviation
 10 Antibody inhibition of in vitro enzymatic activity
            Inhibition of in vitro enzymatic activity by anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase)
    antibodies was tested using an assay that detects and quantifies antibodies that inhibit
    velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) activity. The method is based on a colorimetric activity
    assay that measures the ability of velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) to hydrolyze the
15  synthetic substrate 4-nitrophenyl-p3-D-glucopyranoside to p-nitrophenol and D
    glucopyranoside.
            Anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) antibody positive serum samples were pre
    incubated with a fixed amount of velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase, respectively for 30
    minutes at 370 C. Sheep polyclonal antibodies known to inhibit velaglucerase alfa and
20  imiglucerase in vitro activity were used as positive controls. The 4-nitrophenyl-p-D
                                                  167

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    glucopyranoside substrate solution was then added and incubated with the serum
    sample/enzyme mixture for one hour at 37 0 C. The enzymatic reaction was stopped by
    addition of glycine/sodium carbonate buffer (pH 10.7) and the product (p-nitrophenol)
    was measured at the absorbance wavelength of 405 nm. One unit of velaglucerase alfa
  5 (imiglucerase) activity was defined as the amount of enzyme required to hydrolyze one
    mole of the substrate 4-nitrophenyl-p3-D-glucopyranoside in one minute at 37 0 C.
    Enzymatic activity was quantified by comparison of the released p-nitrophenol in test
    samples and assay controls to a p-nitrophenol calibration curve measured in the same
    assay plate. Results of the test samples were expressed relative to the activity of
 I0 velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) measured in the absence of serum sample and reported
    as % inhibition.
             The assay cut point was determined from individual healthy human donor sera (N
       52) and enzyme replacement therapy-naive Gaucher patients (N = 35). The cut point
    for the velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase neutralizing antibody assays was defined as
 15 inhibition >20.0% based on these 87 samples. Therefore, a patient sample was considered
    to be negative for inhibitory antibodies if the level of inhibition observed was <20.0%
    and to be positive if inhibition >20.0%.
    In vitro cell-based assay
 ?0          An in vitro cell-based assay was used to assess anti-drug antibodies to determine
    if the antibodies were neutralizing.
             Table 29 shows the specification of assay characteristics for neutralizing levels of
    anti-drug antibody (velaglucerase was used as the drug).
25           Table 29
                     Parameter                               Specification
                Imprecision, % RSD
                     Intra assay                                 <12.9
                     Inter assay                                 <6.1
                    Accuracy, %                               86.7 -  92.7
                                                  168

     WO 2011/017177                                                             PCT/US2010/043586
                  Linearity, mU/mL                            0.3 -  33.3
          Positive cut point,' % inhibition                       >20
                    LOD, mU/mL                                    0.3
                    LOQ, mU/mL                                    1.0
                  Positive controls                      Human & sheep ADA
             n=104 NHS and 70 ERT-naive Gaucher sera
            LOD = limits of detection; LOQ = limit of quantification; RSD = relative standard
    deviation
  5
            With respect to neutralizing antibodies in ERT such as ERT for Gaucher disease,
    points to consider include:
        -   Receptor-mediated cell uptake is critical for in vivo function of therapeutic agent
        -   Receptor binding interference by ADA can hinder enzyme trafficking
 10     -   Inhibition of cell uptake is an important tool to evaluate successful ERT since
                -    It closely mimics the mechanism by which NAb may exert an effect in
                     vivo, and
                -    NAb could reduce or abolish the biological activity of the therapeutic
                     agent
15      -   Cell-based assays provide the most appropriate biological model for assessment
            of NAb
            Samples from patients undergoing ERT in clinical trials for Gaucher disease were
    evaluated for neutralizing antibodies to velaglucerase or imiglucerase. Results are shown
    in Table 30.
20          Table 30
                                                 Inhibition of              Inhibition of
                                             imiglucerase uptake,        velaglucerase alfa
          Patient ID           Treatment             % mean               uptake, % mean
                                                   Visit Week                Visit Week
                                               0      13   19    41      0    13    19    41
                                                  169

      WO 2011/017177                                                              PCT/US2010/043586
        032-191-0002          velaglucerase
        039-009-0001           imiglucerase              NS 2                      NS
        039-194-0001           imiglucerase
        039-194-0002           imiglucerase
        039-167-0001           imiglucerase     NT3 38       38    33     NT     4      5     5
        034-027-0002          imiglucerasel     NS                        NS
        034-154-0001          imiglucerasel       5         NT'            10          NT
        034-164-0001          imiglucerasel      38                        10
      A marked cell-based inhibition of imiglucerase uptake was observed in two ADA
    positive patients
      Cell-based inhibition of velaglucerase alfa uptake was either negligible or not
    observed in any ADA-positive patient tested
              previously receiving imiglucerase treatment and switched to velaglucerase alfa at
    trial inception;  2not significant (less than the limit of quantification); 3not tested as yet;
    time point negative for anti-velaglucerase alfa antibodies
  5
    In vitro cell-based assay I
             Major objectives: Experiments were conducted to determine the ability of human
    antibodies reactive with velaglucerase alfa and/or imiglucerase to inhibit (block or
    neutralize) CD206-mediated uptake of the recombinant enzymes by a human cell line
 10 (HT1080) engineered to express CD206, and to compare in this respect anti-drug
    antibodies (ADA) produced in response to imiglucerase to those produced in response to
    velaglucerase alfa. The hypothesis is that antigenic differences exist between
    velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase; these epitopes will differentiate velaglucerase alfa
    from imiglucerase with respect to the functional effect of ADA on cell binding, cell
15  internalization, and/or intracellular trafficking of the therapeutic agent.
             Materials and equipment:
             Critical Materials
             1. Cell line MRC1-18 is derived from the line HT1080 and is stably-transfected
20  with human CD206 (the macrophage mannose receptor; MMR, also referred to as MRC1,
    mannose receptor C type 1). HT1080(saf) cells were transfected with an expression
                                                     170

      WO 2011/017177                                                        PCT/US2010/043586
    vector carrying the gene encoding the MMR (that was isolated from a human liver cDNA
    library) by electroporation and immediately plated into 96-well plates. Stable clones were
    selected using media containing 0.4 mg/mL G418. MRC1 expression was analyzed using
    FITC anti-MRCl staining and analysis by fluorescence shift. Expression of MMR on
  5 MRC1-18 was confirmed by surface staining with anti-MMR Ab. Additionally, MRC1
    18 has been verified by immunostaining and flow cytometry to be negative for expression
    of Fc (gamma) receptors.
            2. Alexa FLUOR@ 488 conjugated velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase:
    velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase was conjugated with Alexa FLUOR@ 488 using the
 10 Alexa FLUORr 488 protein labeling kit following the manufacturer's protocol
    (Molecular Probes, catalog # A 10235).
            3. Imiglucerase or velaglucerase alfa ADA-positive patient sera from clinical
    trials TKT-032, TKT-034, and HGT-GCB-039 (see Table 31 for sample IDs)
            4. Assay Positive Control (PC): 250 pg/mL purified polyclonal sheep anti
 15 velaglucerase alfa antibody (G140) in Normal Human Serum (NHS; BRH127439)
            5. Negative control samples: human serum samples from normal healthy donors
    (Bioreclamation, Catalog #HMSM, BRH127438, BRH127439), or baseline serum
    samples from patients enrolled in clinical trial TKT-032 (N=25).
            6. Mannan: Sigma Catalog # M7054
 ?o         7. D-Mannose-6-phosphate: Sigma Catalog# M3655
            8. Growth medium: 50% CD-CHO (Invitrogen catalog # 10743) and 50% CD-293
    (Invitrogen catalog# 11913) supplemented with 4 mM L-glutamine (Invitrogen Catalog#
    25230) and 0.4 mg/mL Geneticin (G418, Invitrogen Catalog # 11811-031).
            9. 0.05% trypsin-EDTA: Invitrogen catalog# 25300
25           10. Wash buffer: PBS/0.5%BSA
             11. BD Cytometer setup and tracking beads: BD Bioscience catalog# 641319
            PartialList of Equipment
             1.     37 0 C Incubator with 5% C0 2 : Forma Scientific Model 3033
30          2.      Centrifuge: Thermo Scientific Model Sorvall Legend T +
            3.      Cell counter: Mexcelom Bioscience LLC, Model Cellometer Auto T 4
                                                  171

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
            4.      Flow cytometer: BD Bioscience, FACSCanto II
            Methods: Patient sera that tested positive for anti-drug antibodies by antibody
    screening and confirmatory assay were further examined by an in vitro cell uptake assay,
  5 utilizing an HT1080 cell line engineered to express the human macrophage mannose
    receptor (MMR). Briefly, MRC1-18 cells were maintained in CD media supplemented
    with 0.5 mg/mL G418. For each assay, 1.5x10 5 cells/well in CD media with G418 were
    added in a flat bottom 96-well plate, and pre-incubated with 1:20 diluted test patient
    serum samples, 1:20 diluted normal human serum (NHS), or assay positive controls
 I0 (G140 antibody, 5 mg/mL mannan) in 1:20 diluted NHS at 37 0 C for 15 minutes. Then 5
    nM Alexa FLUOR@ 488 labeled velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase was added, and
    incubated at 37 0 C for an additional 2 hours. A calibration curve of Alexa FLUOR@ 488
    labeled velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase was included in each experiment by incubation
    of MRC1-18 cells with Alexa FLUOR@ 488 labeled velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase
 15 (0 - 10 nM) in 1 :20 diluted NHS at 37 0 C for 2h.
            After a 2-hour incubation, media was removed by centrifugation, cells were
    treated with trypsin-EDTA for 3 minutes to remove surface-bound velaglucerase alfa or
    imiglucerase, then neutralized by addition of an equal volume of media with 10% FBS.
    Cells were washed with PBS/0.5% BSA once, resuspended in PBS/0.5% BSA and
 ?o analyzed by BD FACS Canto II with the fixed instrument setting. The Canto II
    instrument was set up with the BD Cytometer setup and tracking beads before each
    analysis. The results were analyzed with FlowJo software, and the mean fluorescence
    intensity (MFI) for each sample recorded. The adjusted MFI was calculated by
    subtraction of the MFI of the background sample (cells with 0 nM drug) from the MFI of
25  each sample. Inhibition of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase uptake by patient samples
    was determined relative to a normal human serum sample (NHS) or the patient's own
    naive baseline sample, when available. Percent inhibition can be calculated using the
    following equation:
    % inhibition = 1-(Adj. MFI of test sample/Adj. MFI of patient baseline or NHS) x100
                                                  172

      WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
             Results:
             Assay Development:
             The following initial results were obtained upon development of this assay (data
  5 not shown):
             - The internalization of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase by the MRC1-18 cell
    line is dose dependent.
             - The internalization of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase by the MRC1-18 cell
    line is mediated by the mannose receptor, since the internalization was inhibited by
 10 mannan (5 mg/mL, >89%), but not by M6P (5 mM).
             - G140 antibody spiked in 1:20 diluted NHS (normal human serum) inhibits
    velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase uptake by the MRC1-18 cell line. The inhibition is
    dose dependent.
             - Twelve lots of NHS tested at 1:20 dilution did not inhibit velaglucerase alfa
 15 uptake by the MRC1- 18 cell line.
             Assay Variability:
             Twenty-five individual naive Gaucher serum samples from a clinical study
    were tested over three days (N = 75) to establish the baseline effect on the uptake of
 ?0 velaglucerase alfa or imiglucerase into the MRC1-18 cell line.
             The average baseline serum effect on the uptake of velaglucerase alfa is similar to
    the baseline serum effect on the uptake of imiglucerase. However, the variability,
    calculated as the CV%, is much greater for imiglucerase than for velaglucerase alfa (28%
    vs 15%) (data not shown).
25
             ADA-Positive PatientSerum Samples Results and Reproducibility of the Assay:
             The inhibition of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase uptake by patient serum
    samples previously determined to have antibodies against imiglucerase or velaglucerase
    alfa was tested. Each serum sample was tested in parallel for its ability to block
30  imiglucerase uptake as well as velaglucerase alfa uptake, regardless of which enzyme
    preparation initially elicited the production of the antibodies. Table 31 lists the patient
                                                   173

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    serum samples and the protein treatment received (only one antibody positive patient,
    ENU, received treatment with velaglucerase alfa).
             Table 31: ADA-Positive Patient Serum Samples
               Patient          Patient Initials       Treatment Received
            032-191-0002             ENU                Velaglucerase alfa
            039-009-0001             RW                    imiglucerase
            039-194-0001             GAJ                   imiglucerase
            039-194-0002             AVL                   imiglucerase
            039-167-0001             KM                    imiglucerase
            034-027-0002              SB                   imiglucerase
            034-154-0001             JMS                   imiglucerase
            034-164-0001             MPQ                   imiglucerase
  5
             Samples from patients ENU, RW, GAJ, AVL, and SB showed no inhibition of
    either imiglucerase or velaglucerase alfa uptake (data not shown). The reproducibility of
    inhibition of velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase uptake by patient samples JMS, KM,
    MPQ, and SB (as a negative control) was determined over three days relative to a normal
 I0 human serum sample or the patient's own naive baseline sample, when available (Table
    32).
             Patient KM (039-167-0001) was naive at baseline and was then treated with
    imiglucerase in a subsequent study. Samples from all three visits showed a significant
    inhibition of imiglucerase uptake (24 - 52% inhibition relative to its baseline), relative to
15  the equivalent inhibition of velaglucerase alfa uptake (0 -15%, which is within the range
    of variability of the assay).
             Patients SB (034-027-0002), JMS (034-154-0001), and MPQ (034-164-0001)
    were previously treated with imiglucerase. Serum from patient SB showed no inhibition
    of either imiglucerase uptake (0%) or of velaglucerase alfa uptake (0%) relative to a
20  normal human serum sample. The inhibition of imiglucerase uptake (0 - 14%) by serum
    from patient JMS was consistent with the inhibition observed of velaglucerase alfa uptake
    (0 - 20%). The inhibition of imiglucerase uptake (32 - 45%) by serum from patient MPQ
                                                 174

    WO 2011/017177                                                                 PCT/US2010/043586
   was significantly greater than the equivalent inhibition of velaglucerase alfa uptake (0
   15%, which is within the range of variability of the assay).
            These preliminary results suggest that neutralizing antibodies present in the serum
   from patients KM and MPQ inhibit imiglucerase uptake but not velaglucerase alfa uptake
 5 into cells.
            Table 32: Inhibition of Imiglucerase or Velaglucerase alfa Uptake by ADA
   Positive Patient Samples
                                                           Inhibition of imiglucerase    Inhibition of
   Patient     Initials       Visit        Treatment                 Uptake            Velaglucerase
      #                                                    Day     Day    Day   Mean      alfa Uptake
                 __  __ _  _      _   _  _      _  _  _      1      2       3    _  _   _      _   _
                            Week 13          naive at      38% 24%        52%   38%
     039-                   Week 19         baseline,      29% 45%        40%   38%
     167-        KM                      then treated                                         0-8%
    0001                      Early.          with         28%    38%     33%   33%
                          termination    rniglucerase
     034-                    Baseline      Previously
     027-        SB           visit      treated with       0%     0%      0%    0%          0-14%
    0002                      visit     imiglucerase
     034-                    Baseline      Previously
     154-       JMS           visit      treated with      14%     0%      2%    5%          0-20%
    0001                      visit     imiglucerase
     034-                    Baseline      Previously
     164-       MPQ           visit      treated with      45%    32% 40%       38%          0-15%
    0001                      visit     imiglucerase
10
            Inhibition of uptake of imiglucerase or velaglucerase alfa by the mannose
   inhibitor mannan and by polyclonal sheep anti-velaglucerase alfa antibody G140
   (positive control) was also determined over three days (Table 33). Mannan inhibits the
   uptake of both imiglucerase and velaglucerase alfa into MRC 1-18 cells through the
15 mannose receptor. The G140 antibody inhibits the uptake of both imiglucerase and
   velaglucerase alfa into MRC1-18 cells by an equivalent amount.
                                                       175

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
            Table 33: Inhibition of Imiglucerase or Velaglucerase alfa Uptake by
    Positive Controls
                                              Inhibition of     Inhibition of
                                              Imiglucerase      Velaglucerase
                                                Uptake           alfa Uptake
                                            Mean       CV%      Mean       CV%
                G140          5 Vg/mL        52%       37%       42%        14%
                G140         10 g/mL         78%        11%      71%        7%
               Mannan         5 mg/mL        92%        3%       91%         3%
  5         Conclusions: Velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase differ structurally, with regard
    to both protein sequence (e.g., R495H mutation in imiglucerase) and carbohydrate
    structure. Experiments were performed to address the hypotheses that antigenic
    differences exist between velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase, and that these epitopes
    differentiate velaglucerase alfa from imiglucerase with respect to the ability of anti-drug
 10 antibodies (ADA) to block cell binding and/or cell internalization of each therapeutic.
    Experiments were conducted using the recently developed HT1080 cell line in which
    uptake of therapeutic is facilitated principally by the MMR, and is minimally confounded
    by other known cell uptake mechanisms. The inhibition of imiglucerase or velaglucerase
    alfa uptake by patient serum samples was measured relative to each other. The data show
15  that out of a total of 7 serum samples taken from patients that produced ADA in response
    to imiglucerase treatment, and 1 serum sample taken from a patient that produced ADA
    in response to velaglucerase alfa treatment, 2 sera (2/7=29%) from patients that produced
    ADA in response to imiglucerase caused 24% to 52% inhibition of cell uptake of
    imiglucerase, but only 0-15% inhibition of cell uptake of velaglucerase alfa which is
20  within assay variability. In comparison, only one patient has been identified to date that
    produced antibody in response velaglucerase alfa treatment; this serum did not inhibit
    uptake.
            Each serum sample was tested in parallel for its ability to block imiglucerase
    uptake and/or velaglucerase alfa uptake, regardless of which enzyme preparation initially
                                                   176

     WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
    elicited the production of the antibodies. Such comparisons of the inhibition of
    velaglucerase alfa uptake, versus inhibition of imiglucerase uptake, allow for crude
    "mapping" of epitopes to biologically-relevant portions of each therapeutic (with the
    caveat that the antisera tested herein are polyclonal, and thus each antiserum likely
  5 contains a mixture of antigen specificities, perhaps recognizing multiple epitopes). With
    these precautions in mind, the inhibition of uptake observed with anti-imiglucerase
    antisera seems to be restricted to imiglucerase since the same antisera do not inhibit
    internalization of velaglucerase alfa tested in parallel. These data suggest that some ADA
    produced in response to imiglucerase inhibit cellular internalization via epitopes that are
 10 uniquely exposed in imiglucerase. Furthermore, the difference in variability observed of
    the serum effect on imiglucerase vs. velaglucerase alfa uptake can perhaps be due to a
    greater homogeneity in the velaglucerase alfa preparation than in the imiglucerase
    preparation in terms of post translational modifications.
             Inhibition of enzyme uptake by anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) antibodies
 15 was tested using a cell-based assay that detects and quantifies antibodies that interfere
    with macrophage mannose receptor (MMR)-mediated velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase)
    uptake. The method is based on quantification of fluorescently-labeled velaglucerase alfa
    (imiglucerase) which is internalized by MRC 1-18 cells under defined conditions. MRC 1
    -18 is a cell line engineered at Shire HGT from HT1080 cells that were stably-transfected
 ?o with the human macrophage mannose receptor C, type 1.
             Briefly, anti-velaglucerase alfa (imiglucerase) antibody positive serum samples
    were pre-incubated with MRC1-18 cells in culture media in flat-bottom, 96-well plates at
    37 0 C for 15 minutes. Pooled normal human serum (NHS) was used as negative control.
    Sheep polyclonal antibodies known to inhibit velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase uptake
25  as well as mannan, the MMR-specific ligand (Sung SJ et al. J. Cell Biol. 1983; 96:160
    166) were used as positive controls to block enzyme uptake.
             Following preincubation, Alexa Fluor-48 8-labeled velaglucerase alfa or
    imiglucerase was added, and incubated at 37 0 C for an additional 2 hours. A calibration
    curve consisting of incubation of Alexa Fluor-488-labeled enzyme with MRC1-18 cells
30  was included in each experiment. After incubation, media was removed by
    centrifugation, cells were treated with trypsin-EDTA for 3 minutes to remove
                                                   177

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    surface-bound enzyme, and finally the reaction pH was returned to neutral with by
    addition of an equal volume of culture media. Cells were washed once and resuspended
    using phosphate buffered saline containing 0.5% BSA. Cells were analyzed using a
    Becton Dickinson FACS Canto II instrument calibrated before each analysis using the
  5 instrument's cytometer setup and tracking beads.
            The results were analyzed with the instrument's FlowJo software, and the mean
    fluorescence intensity (MFI) for each sample was recorded. The adjusted MFI was
    calculated by subtracting the background MFI from sample wells containing no enzyme
    from each unknown and control sample MFI. Inhibition of enzyme uptake by patient
 10 serum samples was estimated relative to the NHS control according to the following
    equation:
            % Inhibition = [1 - [Adjusted MFI of test sample/Adjusted MFI of NHS]] X 100
 15         The assay cut point was determined by analysis of 25 individual sera collected
    from treatment-naive Gaucher patients. Each serum was tested on four separate days for a
    total of 100 values and the positive cut point was defined as inhibition greater than the
    mean of these values plus 1.645 standard deviations.
  0 In vitro cell-based assay II
            This assay was developed to compare uptake of velaglucerase alfa to
    imiglucerase.
            Methods: For Design of Experiments (DOE) assays, general factorial design was
    assisted by Statease DESIGN EXPERT TM software. DOE utilized macrophages derived
25  from phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) induced U937 cells, and were conducted in the
    presence of 5 mM mannose-6-phosphate (M6P). For internalization comparisons, U937
    derived macrophages were incubated for 3 hours with GCB at pH 7.5 with 10 mM
    calcium. Internalized drug was measured by an activity assay with a synthetic substrate
    (4-MU-glc) that fluoresces upon cleavage.
30
                                                  178

      WO 2011/017177                                                            PCT/US2010/043586
              Results: Comparison in U937 cells of the internalization rates of velaglucerase
     alfa and imiglucerase showed that velaglucerase alfa is internalized up to 2.5-fold more
     efficiently than imiglucerase. This differentiation in cellular internalization was also
     observed using the MMR-expressing murine cell line J774. Under specific assay
  5  conditions, the addition of calcium mildly inhibited the cellular uptake of imiglucerase
     while it enhanced the uptake of velaglucerase alfa. The internalization of both enzymes
     could be inhibited by addition of mannan to the culture medium, although the inhibition
     of velaglucerase alfa uptake by J774 cells was more complete than that of imiglucerase.
     DOE assays revealed that: i) the interaction of calcium with pH greatly impacts uptake;
 10  and ii) bioassay sample comparisons required the presence of calcium, consistent with the
     known calcium-dependence of the MMR. The presence of mannose-6-phosphate (M6P)
     in DOE experiments ensured that the M6P receptor on U937 cells did not contribute to
     the measured internalization.
              These data suggest that velaglucerase alfa is internalized more efficiently than
 15  imiglucerase. While both enzymes are primarily internalized via the MMR, a small
     portion, greater for imiglucerase than for velaglucerase alfa, is internalized by an
     alternative mechanism. These data may prove valuable in differentiating velaglucerase
     alfa, imiglucerase, and other future therapies.
  ?o Summary
              From these studies, a summary of antibody detection methods is as follows:
         Equivalent assays validated for velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase ADA as per ICH
         and FDA guidelines. See, e.g.,
         http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Regulatorylnformation/Guidances/UCM128049.pdf
25       and http://www.ich.org/LOB/media/MEDIA417.pdf
                  -   Screening
                  -   Confirmatory
                  -   Titer
                  -   Isotype
30                -   Neutralizing
                                                   179

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
        -   Masked patient specimens evaluated for velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase ADA
            in parallel
        -   Controls and calibrators covered a broad range of antibody affinities
        -   Developed isotype-specific hybrid controls when human positive sera not found
  5
            Immunogenicity Status of Patients in Phase III Studies:
        -   TKT032: patients randomized to velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg or 45 U/kg EOW
                -   One patient ADA-negative at baseline developed NAb in response to
                    velaglucerase alfa
 I0     -   TKT034: patients previously stable on imiglucerase switched to velaglucerase
            alfa 15-60 U/kg
                -   Three patients anti-imiglucerase positive at baseline, were anti
                    velaglucerase negative through the 12-month treatment.
        -   HGT-GCB-039: patients randomized to velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg or
 15         imiglucerase 60 U/kg EOW
                -   Four patients ADA-negative at baseline, seroconverted in response to
                    imiglucerase
                -   Of these, one developed NAb reactive against both imiglucerase and
                    velaglucerase alfa, while three developed non-inhibitory IgG ADA
 ?0                 reactive against only imiglucerase
            The patient seroconversion summary is shown in Table 34. Of the 99 patients
    who were treated, 82 received velaglucerase alfa and 17 received imiglucerase. One of
    82 patients receiving velaglucerase alfa and four of 17 patients receiving imiglucerase
25  developed antibodies during the trials.
            Table 34
    Study      Months      Treatments        U/kg EOW n           Seroconversion
    TKT032
    12 months              velaglucerase alfa    60      12       0/12 patients
                           velaglucerase alfa    45      13       1/13 patients
    TKT034
                                                  180

      WO 2011/017177                                                           PCT/US2010/043586
     12 months             velaglucerase alfa    15-60   40        To date: 0 patients
                                                                   (3 patients imiglucerase
                                                                   antibody-positive at
                                                                   baseline)
    HGT-GCB-039
    9 months               velaglucerase alfa    60       17       0/17 patients
                           imiglucerase          60       17       4/17 patients
            The clinical implications of the studies discussed in this example are as follows:
        -   Highly sensitive and equivalent methods were developed, optimized and validated
            to directly assess and compare patient antibody response to velaglucerase alfa and
  5         imiglucerase treatments
        -   Results show seroconversion in 1% of patients treated with velaglucerase alfa and
            23% of patients who were treated with imiglucerase, suggesting significant
            antigenic differences between velaglucerase alfa and imiglucerase
        -   In addition, there was marked cell uptake inhibition by ADA of imiglucerase but
 I0         not velaglucerase alfa
    Example 8: Effect of Moisture Content on the Stability of a Lyophilized
    Velaglucerase Product
            Purpose: To assess the effect of moisture content on the stability of a lyophilized
 15 velaglucerase product.
            Methods: The protein was formulated into a sucrose-containing solution and
    lyophilized using a FTS lab-scale lyophilizer (Lyostar II). The lyophilized vials were
    removed at intervals after primary drying with a sample thief to yield samples with
20  varying moisture content. The secondary structure of the lyophilized protein was
    examined by FT-IR. The thermal stability of these samples was characterized by
    physical appearance, moisture content, size exclusion and reversed phase HPLC, and
    oxidation by peptide mapping methods.
            Upon reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection, the velaglucerase product
25  contains approximately 2.5 mg/mL (40 U/mL) of velaglucerase alfa, 50 mg/mL sucrose,
                                                  181

     WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
    12.9 mg/mL sodium citrate dihydrate, 1.3 mg/mL citric acid monohydrate and 0.11
    mg/mL polysorbate 20.
             Results: A moisture content range of 1.3% to 6.2% was achieved in the
  5 lyophilized product. Cake collapse was observed at accelerated temperature (40'C) in
    drug product with high moisture content (> 5%). However, chemical stability testing
    results for the reconstituted solution demonstrate that the samples with higher moisture
    content (> 3%) showed significantly less degradation than the drier samples by both SE
    HPLC and RP-HPLC methods, as well as showing lower amounts of oxidation. This
 I0 stability trend correlates with changes observed in the secondary structure by FT-IR of
    the dried product.
             Conclusion: Higher moisture content resulted in better chemical stability of a
    lyophilized protein. This stability trend is explained by fewer changes to the secondary
 15 structure in the solid phase with higher moisture content. A choice of proper moisture
    content in the lyophilized product needs to balance both structural stability of the cake
    and chemical stability of the protein.
    Example 9: Analysis of Therapeutic Goals for Velaglucerase alfa
 ?o          Therapeutic goals have been described to monitor achievement, maintenance and
    continuity of therapeutic response in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease receiving ERT
    (Pastores G et al., (2004) Seminars in Hematology, 41 (suppl 5): 4-14)
             To benchmark the impact of velaglucerase alfa treatment against therapeutic goals
    for clinical parameters of type 1 Gaucher disease (anemia, thrombocytopenia,
25  hepatomegaly, and splenomegaly), the proportion of patients at goal for anemia,
    thrombocytopenia, hepatomegaly and splenomegaly at baseline was compared with the
    proportion achieving each of these goals at 9 months or 1 year.
             No data imputation was utilized. Only patients who have data for each goal at
    both time points are included. For hematologic parameters, Baseline was the average of
30  the screening and baseline values; 1 year therapeutic goal values were the average of
    Week 51 and Week 53 values for TKT032 and TKT034, and the average of Week 39 and
                                                   182

   WO 2011/017177                                                                  PCT/US2010/043586
  Week 41 values for HGT-GCB-039. For organ volumes, Week 41 value was applied to 1
  year therapeutic goal criteria in HGT-GCB-039.
           Therapeutic goals for TKT032, HGT-GCB-039, HGT-GCB-039 patients with
  intact spleen, HGT-GCB-039 splenectomized patients, TKT034, and TKT025 are
5 described in Tables 35-40.
           Table 35
  Therapeutic velaglucerase alfa 60        velaglucerase alfa 45     velaglucerase alfa
  goals          U/kg N=12                 U/kg N=13                 Overall N=25
                 Baseline 1 Year           Baseline 1 Year           Baseline     1 Year
  Hemoglobin 2/12 (17%) 11/12 (92%) 3/13 (23%) 12/13 (92%) 5/25 (20%) 23/25 (92%)
  concentration
  Platelet count 2/11 (18%) 6/11 (55%)      4/13 (31%) 9/13 (69%) 6/24(25%)       15/24(63%)
  Liver          5/11 (45%) 11/11 (100%) 7/12 (58%) 8/12 (67%) 12/23 (52%) 19/23 (83%)
  Spleen         3/11 (27%) 11/11 (100%) 4/12 (33%) 11/12 (92%) 7/23 (30%) 22/23 (96%)
  >3 goals       1/11 (9%) 10/11 (91%) 5/12 (42%) 9/12 (75%) 6/23 (26%) 19/23 (83%)
  All 4 goals    1/10 (10%)6/10 (60%)      0/12 (0%) 7/12 (58%) 1/22 (5%)         13/22(59%)
           Table 36
  Therapeutic          velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg        imiglucerase 60 U/kg
  goals                            N=17                          N=17
                         Baseline       9 Months        Baseline     9 Months
  Hemoglobin           10/16 (63%)    15/16 (94%) 4/15 (27%) 12/15 (80%)
  concentration
  Platelet count        8/16 (50%)   16/16 (100%) 9/15 (60%) 15/15 (100%)
  Liver                 8/16 (50%)    15/16 (94%) 4/16 (25%) 16/16 (100%)
  Spleen                 1/6 (17%)     6/6 (100%)      3/6 (50%)    6/6 (100%)
  >3 goals              1/16 (6%)     14/16 (88%)     1/15 (7%) 12/15 (80%)
  All 4 goals            0/6 (0%)     6/6 (100%)       0/6 (0%)     6/6 (100%)
                                                     183

   WO 2011/017177                                                         PCT/US2010/043586
           Table 37
  Therapeutic        velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg     imiglucerase 60 U/kg
  goals                          N=7                        N=7
                       Baseline      9 Months      Baseline     9 Months
  Hemoglobin          5/7 (71%)     7/7 (100%)    2/6 (33%)    6/6 (100%)
  concentration
  Platelet count       0/7 (0%)     7/7 (100%)     0/6 (0%)    6/6 (100%)
  Liver               6/7 (86%)     7/7 (100%)    1/6 (17%)    6/6 (100%)
  Spleen              1/6 (17%)     6/6 (100%)    3/6 (50%)    6/6 (100%)
  23 goals            1/7 (14%)    7/7 (100%)     1/6 (17%)    6/6 (100%)
  All 4 goals          0/6 (0%)    6/6 (100%)     0/6 (0%)     6/6 (100%)
           Table 38
  Therapeutic        velaglucerase alfa 60 U/kg     imiglucerase 60 U/kg
  goals                         N=10                        N=10
                       Baseline      9 Months      Baseline     9 Months
  Hemoglobin          5/9 (56%)      8/9 (89%)    2/9 (22%)     6/9 (67%)
  concentration
  Platelet count      8/9 (89%)     9/9 (100%)   9/9 (100%)    9/9 (100%)
  Liver               2/9 (22%)      8/9 (89%)   3/10 (30%) 10/10 (100%)
  22 goals            6/9 (67%)    9/9 (100%)    5/9 (56%)     9/9 (100%)
  All 3 goals          0/9 (0%)     7/9 (78%)     0/9 (0%)     6/9 (67%)
5          Table 39
  Therapeutic        velaglucerase alfa overall
  goals                         N=40
                       Baseline        1 Year
  Hemoglobin         37/38 (97%)   37/38 (97%)
  concentration
  Platelet count    29/36 (81%)    29/36 (81%)
  Liver             37/37 (100%) 37/37 (100%)
  Spleen             30/34 (88%)   31/34 (91%)
                                                184

   WO 2011/017177                                                          PCT/US2010/043586
  [3 goals             32/37 (86%) 33/37 (89%)
  All 4 goals          26/32 (81%) 26/32 (81%)
           Table 40
  Therapeutic             TKT025               TKT032
  goals            velaglucerase alfa 60 velaglucerase alfa 60
                        U/kg N=12             U/kg N=12
                   Baseline    Month 9   Baseline     Year 1
  Hemoglobin 5/10 (50%) 10/10 (100%) 2/12 (17%) 11/12 (92%)
  concentration
  Platelet count 0/10 (0%) 7/10 (70%) 2/11 (18%) 6/11 (55%)
  Liver          5/10(50%) 7/10(70%) 5/11(45%)         11/11
                                                      (100%)
  Spleen          0/10 (0%) 9/10 (90%) 3/11 (27%)      11/11
                                                      (100%)
  23 goals      0/10 (10%) 8/10 (80%) 1/11 (9%) 10/11 (91%)
   A14 goals    0/10 (10%) 5/10 (50%) 1/10 (10%) 6/10 (60%)
5
           A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it
  will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the
  spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope
  of the following claims.
  Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise"
  or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
  inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or
  method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of
  elements or integers or method steps.
  The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
  it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
  acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
  information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
  knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                 185

 CLAIMS:
        1. A method of treating a subject with Gaucher disease, the method comprising
        administering a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy by intravenous
infusion to the subject over a period of less than 2 hours, to thereby treat the subject.
        2. The method of claim 1, wherein the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
therapy is administered over a period of 90 minutes or less.
        3. The method of claim 1, wherein the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
therapy is administered over a period of 60 minutes or less.
        4. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering a second
glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy by intravenous infusion to the subject
over a period of less than 2 hours.
        5. The method of claim 1, wherein the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
therapy is selected from the group consisting of: velaglucerase, imiglucerase and uplyso.
        6. The method of claim 1, wherein the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement
therapy is administered at a dose of 15 to 60 U/kg.
        7. A method for identifying a subject as suitable for treatment with a
glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy, comprising:
        determining if neutralizing antibodies to a glucocerebrosidase enzyme
replacement therapy are present in a sample from the subject to obtain a measured value
of antibody to the therapy, wherein the subject is currently being administered a first
glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or has previously received a first
glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy, and
        comparing the measured value of antibody to the therapy to a standard,
                                              186

        wherein if the measured antibody value is greater than the standard, the subject is
identified as having antibodies to the glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy
and as a candidate for glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy with
velaglucerase, and if the measured antibody value is not greater than the standard,
identifying the subject as a candidate for glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy
with the first glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy or an alternative
glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy.
        8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first glucocerebrosidase enzyme
replacement therapy is imiglucerase or uplyso.
        9. The method of claim 7, wherein the sample is a blood or serum sample.
         10. The method of claim 9, wherein the blood or serum sample has been
modified.
         11. The method of claim 10, wherein the sample has been contacted with an
analytical reagent or substrate.
         12. The method of claim 10, wherein the sample is a concentrated portion of a
blood or serum sample.
         13. The method of claim 7, wherein the subject is identified as a candidate for
glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy with velaglucerase, and the method
further comprises administering velaglucerase to the subject.
         14. A method for treating a subject with Gaucher disease that is currently taking
or has previously received a glucocerebrosidase enzyme replacement therapy,
comprising:
                                              187

        selecting a subject on the basis that the subject has tested positive for the
production of antibodies to the therapy the subject is currently taking or has previously
taken for Gaucher disease, and
        administering velaglucerase to the subject.
        15. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject tested positive for the
production of IgE antibodies to the therapy the subject is currently taking or has
previously taken for Gaucher disease.
        16. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject tested positive for the production
of IgM antibodies to the therapy the subject is currently taking or has previously taken for
Gaucher disease.
        17. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject tested positive for the
production of IgG antibodies to the therapy the subject is currently taking or has
previously taken for Gaucher disease.
        18. The method of claim 14, wherein the therapy the subject is currently taking or
has previously taken for Gaucher disease is imiglucerase.
        19. The method of claim 14, wherein the therapy the subject is currently taking or
has previously taken for Gaucher disease is uplyso.
        20. The method of claim 14, wherein velaglucerase is administered at a dose of
15 to 60 U/kg.
        21. The method of claim 14, wherein the velaglucerase is administered to the
subject by intravenous infusion over 90 minutes or less.
        22.     The method of claim 1, further comprising administering an oral therapy
comprising a compound that reduces glucosylceramide.

      23.     The method of claim 1, further comprising administering a
pharmacological chaperone molecule.
                                          189

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
