  ABSTRACT
  The present disclosure relates to a computer generated 3D virtual environment for improving
  memory (e.g. spatial, temporal, spatial-temporal, working and short-term memory).        In an
  aspect, there is provided a computer-implemented method for generating a 3D virtual reality
5 (VR) environment for improving spatial memory.        In an embodiment, the method comprises
  executing at least one VR memory training module including one or more memory training tasks
  to be performed within a navigable three-dimensional (3D) environment; displaying a navigable
  3D environment via an output to a display; and receiving an input from an interactive
  navigational controller. In another embodiment, the method may further comprise performing
0 one or more scans of brain activity, whereby, the effectiveness of the at least one VR memory
  training module in targeting a region of the brain can be measured. The determination of which
  VR memory training modules to retrieve and execute may be made based on the measured
  effectiveness of a previous VR memory training module training session in targeting a selected
  region of the brain.
                                                  45

                                                    1
        COMPUTER GENERATED THREE-DIMENSIONAL VIRTUAL REALITY
                        ENVIRONMENT FOR IMPROVING MEMORY
RELATED CASE
This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2012339522,
filed on 16 November 2012, the contents of which are hereby incorporated in its entirety.
FIELD
The present disclosure relates generally to a computer generated three-dimensional (3D) virtual
reality (VR) environment for improving memory.
BACKGROUND
In the prior art, advancements in computer technologies and high resolution graphic displays
powered by graphics processing units (GPUs) have been used to create computer generated VR
environments in which a user can navigate through virtual spaces - such as rooms, hallways,
floors, buildings, streets, neighborhoods, cities, landscapes, flight paths, etc. - by interacting
with a navigational control. Often, the user is able to select a first person view such that the user
may have a sense of being immersed in the virtual environment in which the user is navigating.
This technology has been applied to various fields of endeavor, including computer games and
vehicle simulators.
More recently, computer generated 3D VR environments have been used experimentally in new
fields of endeavor, including experimental systems and method for assisting users overcome
their phobias. For example, VR systems have been developed to assist people with overcoming
a fear of flying by having them participate in a controlled virtual flying environment.
In another field of endeavor, 3D VR environments have been used to help patients reduce their
experience of pain. For example, burn victims have been assisted by refocusing their attention
away from the pain by having them engage in a 3D VR environment, such as a virtual show
world.
Yet other fields of endeavor are being explored in which 3D VR environments may be utilized
to assist people. In particular, there is a need for a computer generated 3D virtual environment
for assisting people with improving their memory.

SUMMARY
The present disclosure is related to a computer generated 3D virtual environment for improving
memory, and more particularly spatial, temporal, spatial-temporal, working and short-term
memory.
In an aspect, provided is a computer-implemented system for generating a 3D virtual reality
(VR) environment for improving memory (e.g. spatial, temporal, spatial-temporal, working and
short-term memory), comprising:        a control module configured to access at least one VR
memory training module including one or more memory training tasks to be performed within a
navigable three-dimensional (3D) environment; and a VR engine configured to execute the at
least one VR memory training module with an output to a display, and an input from an
interactive navigational controller. The system may further comprise means for performing one
or more scans of brain structure and/or activity, whereby, the effectiveness of the at least one
VR memory training module in targeting a selected region of the brain can be measured. In an
embodiment, the control module is configured to determine which VR memory training module
to retrieve and execute in dependence upon the measured effectiveness of a previous VR
memory training module training session in targeting a selected region of the brain.
In another aspect, there is provided a computer-implemented method for generating a 3D virtual
reality (VR) environment for improving memory (e.g. spatial, temporal, spatial-temporal, working
and short-term memory). In an embodiment, the method comprises executing at least one VR
memory training module including one or more memory training tasks to be performed within a
navigable three-dimensional (3D) environment; displaying a navigable 3D environment via an
output to a display; and receiving an input from an interactive navigational controller. The
method may further comprise performing one or more scans of brain structure and/or activity,
whereby, the effectiveness of the at least one VR memory training module in targeting a region
of the brain can be measured.       The determination of which VR memory training modules to
retrieve and execute may be made based on the measured effectiveness of a previous VR
memory training module training session intargeting a selected region of the brain.
In this respect, before explaining at least one embodiment of the system and method of the
present disclosure in detail, it is to be understood that the present system and method is not
limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the
components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present
                                                 2

 system and method is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in
 various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein
 are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 FIG. 1 shows a schematic block diagram of a system in accordance with an embodiment.
 FIG. 2 shows a schematic flow chart of a method in accordance with an embodiment.
 FIGS. 3A to 3D shows various fMRI scans of activity (FIGS. 3A and 3B) and grey matter (FIGS.
3C and 3D) in the brain resulting from performing memory testing that dissociates between
spatial and response navigational strategies in accordance with various embodiments.
 FIG. 4 shows a graph of correlation between the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) test
which is sensitive to dementia and a learning test in a group of healthy older adults.
FIG. 5 shows experience-dependent growth in the hippocampus and striatum of mice trained in
different versions of a maze.
FIGS. 6A and 6B show an illustrative randomization procedure using a stratified randomization
method.
FIG. 7 shows an illustrative list of different VR memory training modules in accordance with an
embodiment.
FIGS. 8A and 8B show illustrative screenshots taken from a discrimination tasks module.
FIG. 9 shows an illustrative top view of rooms and a list of objects to find as specified by the
discrimination tasks.
FIGS. 10A and 10Bshow illustrative screen shots taken from VR memory training modules for
discrimination and spatial memory tasks.
                                                  3

FIG. 11 shows an illustrative top view of an answer key having a list of instructions showing the
relationship between the locations of various rooms that participants learn for participants to
follow.
FIGS. 12A and 12B show illustrative screenshots of a VR memory training module for object
location tasks.
FIG. 13 shows an illustrative example of a top view of a virtual environment with objects for use
with the VR memory training module of FIGS. 12A and 12B.
FIGS. 14A and 14B show illustrative screenshots of a VR memory training module for Spatio
Temporal Order tasks.
FIGS. 15A - 15J show illustrative screen shots of a VR memory training module for placing
landmarks in temporal order in the Spatio-Temporal Order tasks.
FIGS. 16A and 16B show illustrative screenshots taken from VR memory training modules for
navigation tasks.
FIG. 17 shown is a top view map of a small city with landmarks listed from a VR memory
training module for navigation tasks of FIGS. 16A and 16B.
FIG. 18 shows a VR memory training module for a number-letter sequencing task in accordance
with an embodiment.
FIG. 19 shows a VR memory training module for an N-back task in accordance with an
embodiment.
FIG. 20 shows a VR memory training module for a counting forwards and backwards module in
accordance with an embodiment.
FIG. 21 shows a VR memory training module for another counting forwards and backwards
module in accordance with another embodiment.
                                                4

FIG. 22 shows a VR memory training module for memorizing numbers of coloured cards
encountered along a path in accordance with an embodiment.
FIG. 23 shows an experimental design in accordance with an embodiment.
FIG. 24 shows an illustrative series of transfer tests administered before and after the memory
training in accordance with an embodiment.
FIG. 25 shows another illustrative series of transfer tests administered before and after the
memory training in accordance with another embodiment.
FIGS. 26A and 26B show two illustrative transfer tests in accordance with yet another
embodiment.
FIG. 27 shows a 4-on-8 virtual maze transfer test in accordance with an embodiment.
FIGS. 28A - 28C show various screen shots of a wayfinding transfer test in accordance with an
embodiment.
FIGS. 29A and 29B show a design of a go/no-go transfer test in accordance with an
embodiment.
FIG. 30 shows a design of a concurrent spatial discrimination learning task transfer test in
accordance with an embodiment.
FIG. 31 shows illustrative percentage improvement calculations in accordance with an
embodiment.
FIGS. 32A and 32B show graphic results of pre- and post-memory training for performing
various tasks in healthy older adults.
FIGS. 33A and 33B show graphic results of pre- and post-memory training for performing
various other tasks in healthy older adults.
                                                5

FIGS. 34A show fMRI scans of increased fMRI activity in the HPC of healthy older adults who
underwent memory training in accordance with an embodiment and FIG. 34B show no such
increased fMRI activity in the controls.
FIGS. 35A show structural MRI scans of induced growth in the HPC (at the cross hair) of
healthy older adults who underwent memory training in accordance with an embodiment as
measured by VBM. In addition to growth in the HPC, the memory training induced growth in
areas of the brain throughout the neocortex, including the entorhinal cortex, perirhinal cortex,
parahippocampal cortex, orbito-frontal cortex, occipital cortex, parietal cortex, temporal cortex
and other regions of the frontal cortex and amygdala. FIG. 35B show no such increased
structural MRI growth in the controls.
FIGS. 36A - 36C show bar graphs of the performance of Mild Cognitive Impairment patients
during VR memory training in accordance with an embodiment.
FIGS. 37A - 37B show additional bar graphs of the performance of Mild Cognitive Impairment
patients during VR memory training in accordance with an embodiment.
FIGS. 38A - 38C show comparative bar graphs of pre- and post- VR memory training
performance in Mild Cognitive Impairment patients in accordance with an embodiment.
FIGS. 39A - 39B show comparative bar graphs for a group of Mild Cognitive Impairment
patients on the memory training in accordance with an embodiment.
FIGS. 40A - 40C show bar graphs of the performance of a group of Mild Cognitive Impairment
patients on the memory training in accordance with an embodiment.
FIG. 41 shows an illustrative example of a placebo control that may be used.
FIG. 42 shows illustrative examples of pre- memory training structural MRI scans of four
patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment.
                                               6

FIGS. 43A and 43B show pre-memory training functional MRI scans of Mild Cognitive
 Impairment patient and Healthy older adult participants, average of first experimental trial. The
figures show no fMRI activity in the hippocampus prior to the memory training.
FIG. 44 shows post-memory training functional MRI minus pre-memory training functional MRI
scans of two patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment. This figure shows recovery of fMRI activity
in the hippocampus of patients with dysfunction to the hippocampus such as Mild Cognitive
Impairment patients.
FIG. 45 shows a generic computer device which may provide a suitable operating environment
for various embodiments.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
As noted above, the present disclosure relates to a computer generated 3D virtual environment
for improving memory. While the present system and method may be used to train different
types of memory, including spatial, temporal, spatial-temporal, working and short-term memory,
the discussion below focuses on training spatial memory as illustrative examples of various
embodiments.
Also, while examples of the items to be remembered include objects, letters and digits, this is
illustrative and not meant to be limiting. For example, other things to be remembered may
include faces, animals, words, sentences, stories, rooms, or landmarks, for example. Again,
this list of things to remember is not meant to be limiting. In addition, any sensory stimuli could
be used, including auditory, visual, olfactory, somato-sensory, motor, etc.
In the description       below,  references to discrimination tasks       may involve perceptual
discrimination rather than involving memory.         However, it will be appreciated that spatial
memory improvement includes various components important for spatial memory, such as
perception, temporal, spatio-temporal, working and short-term memory. This list is not meant to
be restricted to a particular definition or semantic description of memory. For example the types
of memory described above include different definitions of memory such as relational memory,
episodic memory, semantic memory, declarative memory, temporary memory. This is not an
                                                  7

exhaustive list of the types of memory but only examples to convey the breadth of the definition
of memory.
 For the purposes of the present disclosure, the list of acronyms below have the following
meaning.
List of Acronyms
4/8VM: 4-on-8 Virtual Maze
AD: Alzheimer's disease
BIS-1 1: Barratt Impulsiveness Scale 11
BOLD: Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent
CSDLT: Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning Task
CN: Caudate Nucleus
CT: Computerized Tomography
DST: Digit Symbol Test
ET-CT: Experimental Trials - Control Trials
FSAQ: Functional Spatial Abilities Questionnaire
FWHM: full-width at half-maximum
GDS: Geriatric Depression Scale
HPC: Hippocampus
INSECT: Intensity Normalized Stereotaxic Environment for the Classification of Tissues
MCI: Mild Cognitive Impairment
MMSE: Mini-Mental State Examination
MoCA: Montreal Cognitive Assessment
MRI: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
NLS: Number-Letter Sequencing
PC: Placebo Control
PSS: Perceived Stress Scale
QOL: Quality of Life
RAVLT: Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Task
ROI : Region of interest
ROCF: Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure
SEQ: Self-Esteem Questionnaire
SMIP: Spatial Memory Improvement Program
                                               8

  S-R: Stimulus-Response
 TONI-Ill: Test of Nonverbal Intelligence IllI
 VBM:Voxel-Based Morphometry
 WAIS-R: Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale
 WM: Working Memory
  Regions of the Brain Associated with Memory
 Controlled studies have shown that in order to find our way and move adaptively within a new
 environment, humans often spontaneously adopt different navigational strategies which rely on
 different parts of the brain. For example, to reach a target location, a person may use a "spatial
 memory strategy" by learning the relationships between environmental landmarks (i.e. stimulus
 stimulus associations). This strategy is a form of explicit memory based on a cognitive map
 which allows a target to be reached in a direct path from any given direction. This type of flexible
 navigation has been shown to depend upon the hippocampus (HPC) region of the brain.
 Alternatively, one can navigate without knowledge of the relationships between environmental
 landmarks, but instead, by using a series of turns at precise decision points or stimuli (e.g. turn
 left at the corner, then turn right after the park etc.). The successful repetition of this latter non
 spatial strategy leads to a "response strategy" (stimulus-response associations) known to
 involve the caudate nucleus (CN) region of the brain, a form of implicit memory, automatization
 of behavior or habit. The frontal cortex, another region of the brain, which is involved in short
 term memory or working memory (i.e. holding onto multiple pieces information for a limited time
 in order to make this information available for further information-processing), planning,
 decision-making and inhibition was shown to be involved in modulating which strategy is used at
 a given time. The amygdala, a region of the brain involved in emotions, stress and fear has
 been shown to promote response strategies.
 In a previous study, 50 young healthy participants performed a virtual navigation task (a "virtual
maze task") on a computer monitor which could be solved by using either of these two
strategies - i.e. the "spatial memory strategy" or the "response strategy". The participants had to
learn the locations of objects hidden at the end of paths extending from a radial maze. A probe
trial that involved the removal of all landmarks was used to identify the participants adopting a
spatial strategy because it was predicted that only this group would show an increase in errors.
Based on self report and the probe trial, it was found that about half of the participants
spontaneously used the response strategy. They made fewer errors on the probe trial and
                                                    9

reported following a pattern of open and closed arms or a series of directions (e.g. take the
second path to the left, then take the next left) from a given starting point or stimulus. The other
half of the participants spontaneously used spatial memory (i.e. the reported using two
landmarks and did not use a pattern of opened and closed arms). The group using spatial
memory made significantly more errors on the probe trial and reported learning the locations of
target objects in relation to multiple landmarks. In this experiment, it was found that the
response strategy was more efficient than the spatial memory strategy, as evidenced by fewer
errors and less time to complete the task. With further training, 40% of the people using the
spatial memory strategy shifted to the more efficient response strategy, as has been
demonstrated in rats in earlier studies.
A functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) study conducted during the memory testing
was done showed that the HPC region of the brain was significantly activated only in spatial
learners, whereas the CN region showed significant sustained activity in response learners.
 Response learners showed no activity in the HPC. Voxel Based Morphometry (VBM) has been
 used to identify brain regions co-varying with the navigational strategies used by individuals.
 Results showed that spatial learners had significantly more grey matter in the HPC and less
grey matter in the CN as compared to response learners. On the other hand, response learners
 had more grey matter in the CN and less grey matter in the HPC. Further, the grey matter in the
 HPC was negatively correlated to the grey matter in the CN, suggesting a competitive
 interaction between these two brain areas. In a second analysis, the grey matter of regions
 known to be anatomically connected to the HPC, such as the amygdala, parahippocampal,
 perirhinal, entorhinal and orbito-frontal cortices were shown to co-vary with grey matter in the
 HPC. In other words, spatial learners had more grey matter in the HPC but they also had more
 grey matter in the network of anatomically connected areas described above which included the
 amygdala and cortex. Since low grey matter in the HPC is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease
 as well as cognitive deficits in normal aging and other neurological and psychiatric disorders
that affect the HPC such as Depression, Bipolar disorders, Schizophrenia, Post-Traumatic
 Stress Disorders, Diabetes, Addiction, Dementia, Parkinson's disease (with dementia) or any
 other disorder affecting memory and the HPC, these results have important implications for
 cognitive training programs that aim at functional recovery in these brain areas.
 Memory Impairment
                                                   10

Through many years of research in this field, the inventor has come to appreciate and recognize
a need for developing an effective system and method for improving memory to help protect
against or to slow the degeneration of the HPC and other regions of the brain that occurs with
normal aging, and with various cognitive impairments and diseases.
Recent studies have shown that the percentage proportion of the Canadian population over age
65 will climb from 11.6% in 1991 to 16% in 2016, and 23% in 2041. By the year 2050, 16% of
the world population will be over the age of 65. In the US, 20% of the population is expected to
over the age 65 in 2050 and in Japan, 38% of the population is expected to be over 65 in 2050.
The Canadian Study of Health and Aging has documented a current prevalence of 8% for
dementia in this group of citizens over the age of 65, and the prevalence rises exponentially with
age. There is currently an incidence of 60,000 new cases of dementia each year in Canada.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, accounting for at least 65% of
cases, or about 200,000 people in Canada in 1998. It is severely disabling and a major human,
social, and economic burden. All of this makes prevention of AD a major public health issue in
Canada, and in many other jurisdictions with a growing percentage of elderly people in their
populations.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an intermediate cognitive state between normal aging and
AD. Patients with MCI suffer subjective memory impairments while being functionally
autonomous. Approximately 44% of MCI patients recover. However, patients with amnestic MCI
have memory impairments and AD pathology. The first regions of the brain to show AD
pathology are the entorhinal cortex, the HPC, and with disease progression, the neocortex
which includes the Frontal cortex. Reductions in HPC volumes were found to be good predictors
of ensuing AD.
Interestingly, the HPC is a structure which has been shown to have neurogenesis across the
entire life span in rodents and in primates. This neurogenesis in the HPC is stimulated by
learning and memory paradigms that were shown to increase cellular survival in adult primates.
As such, learning and memory paradigms may help cellular survival and synapse development
in the HPC of MCI patients by focusing on the very region in which the pathology emerges.
A number of memory intervention studies have proven successful in helping alleviate memory
impairments in MCI patients. However, most of these studies have assumed involvement of the
                                                11

HPC but have not actually tested their hypothesis with brain imaging or by testing patients with
lesions specific to the HPC. Memory intervention studies that target the HPC may be most
effective in alleviating symptoms of MCI.
As will be explained in further detail below, the use of VR has enabled the production of
innovative learning and memory paradigms proven to be sensitive to training various regions of
the brain. Based on these findings, the inventor has developed a spatial memory improvement
program (SMIP) with a plurality of training programs designed to stimulate the HPC and cortex.
Initial results in healthy older adults (59-75 years of age) showed that the SMIP improved
memory, increased activity in the HPC, and induced growth in the HPC and cortex, as
evidenced by functional and structural Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Further, participants found
the SMIP to be enjoyable and its similarity to real life environments allowed a direct transfer to
their everyday lives. Participants testified to being more autonomous and confident, which
shows that the SMIP was helpful in improving their quality of life. Thus, the inventor believes
that SMIP is a promising tool for promoting healthy aging and reducing the symptoms
associated with MCI.
System and Method for Improving Memory
As will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying FIGS. 1 to 41, the
inventor has developed a computer generated 3D virtual environment for executing a plurality of
memory training programs which are designed to improve memory and navigational skills in
various populations including MCI and healthy participants relative to placebo control (PC)
groups, and also improve memory and increase blood flow and grey matter in the HPC relative
to controls. By exercising and developing the HPC region and other regions of their brains,
participants are able to show a measurable improvement in their memory function.
Now referring to FIG. 1, shown is a schematic block diagram of a system 100 in accordance
with an illustrative embodiment, which is not meant to be limiting.       As shown, system 100
includes a virtual reality (VR) memory training module storage and user database 110
operatively connected to a control module 120. Control module 120 is adapted to operatively
connect to the database 110 in order to access the various training modules and data about
various users or participants. Control module 120 is also operatively connected to a VR
memory training module generator 130 for generating additional training modules, as will be
                                                12

described in more detail further below. Control module 120 is further operatively connected to a
VR engine 140 for creating a VR environment as discussed in more detail below. VR engine
140 is in turn operatively connected to a VR graphics display user interface 150, a VR
navigational controller, and an audio speaker / voice synthesis microphone 160. These various
modules will now be described in more detail.
In an embodiment, control module 120 may be hosted on a generic computing device with an
operating system for running various software modules and the memory training modules as
described herein. As noted, control module 120 is adapted to access one or more suitable
memory training modules stored in database 110.         The selection of which memory training
module is retrieved for execution may be determined by the control module based on a
particular user's profile as also stored in database 110. (It will be appreciated that the user
profiles may also be stored in a separate database on another hardware device, and the
storage location of the user profiles and the memory training modules are not meant to be
limiting.)
In an embodiment, control module 120 is adapted to keep track of a user's progress through a
memory training program. Based on a user's initial profile, and feedback obtained during the
course of a memory training program, control module 120 may determine which memory
training modules to retrieve and execute. As training may be scheduled over a number of
weeks, months, or even years, control module 120 is configured to keep track of the progress of
training for each and every user or participant. Control module 120 is also configured to keep
track of which memory training modules have been used for a particular user, and how many
times a particular memory training module has been used for the particular user.
In another embodiment, control module 120 may determine if a particular memory training
module has been offered to and executed by a particular user more than a pre-determined
number of times. For example, control module 120 may be configured to limit the number of
repetitions of any particular module to between 3 and 5 repetitions. By limiting the number of
times a particular memory training module is repeated, control module 120 prevents the
participant from simply relying on a response strategy, or implicit memory developed from habit.
In an embodiment, control module 120 is operatively connected to a VR engine 140 for
generating a navigable, VR environment for the memory training modules. For example, the VR
                                                13

engine 140 may be configured to generate a virtual 3D environment on a VR graphics display
user interface 150 to interact with a user. The user interface 150 may be, for example, a
computer display suitable for generating a graphics output at a sufficiently high frame refresh
rate to provide a user with a sense of motion through a virtual 3D environment. A VR navigation
controller 160 may be, for example, a mouse, joystick, trackball, response box, or direction keys
on a keyboard for navigating within the VR environment.
In an embodiment, the user interface 150 may be a type of graphics display provided on a large
screen (e.g. 3 meter wide screen displaying 2D or 3D depth perceptual stimuli), in a totally black
room, which produces a 3D environment. It can also be displayed on a regular computer screen
or on any type of computerised display (e.g. game station, Wii@, iPad@, iPhone@, Android@).
Alternatively, it can be displayed on VR glasses or goggles (not shown) that may be worn
around the eyes of a user or participant.      In this embodiment, as the user is wearing the
graphics display and peripheral vision may be partially or fully blocked, the user may feel much
more immersed in the VR environment.            If the VR glasses or goggles are fitted with
accelerometers to detect motion and orientation, the user may control the direction of view of
the VR environment by simply moving his head to the direction he would like to see. This may
be supplemented by a navigation sensor worn on the hands or legs, or by a body position
detector such as the Microsoft Kinect@ system to initiate movement towards a particular
direction.
In another embodiment, VR engine 140 is also operatively connected to an audio speaker /
voice synthesis microphone 170 to facilitate audio interaction with the VR engine 140 and
control module 120. For example, speaker / mic 170 may be used to provide instructions to the
user during the course of a memory training program, and may also be used to receive
responses, questions or commands from the user.
By providing a 3D VR environment, which in addition to a visual user interface may also include
motion feedback and audio interaction, the participant may be more fully engaged with each
memory training program. Further, the HPC is a multimodal association area that receives
auditory, olfactory, somatosensory as well as visual information. As such, multi-modal
stimulation within the domain of spatial memory fully engages the HPC.
                                                14

 In another embodiment, a VR helmet may be provided which may include sensors for
 conducting measurements of brain activity, and which may also include sensors for identifying
 which regions of the brain are the most active. Such sensors may be used to measure pre
 training brain activity, post-training brain activity, or brain activity during the course of conducting
 a VR memory training session.
 In an embodiment, control module 120 may be configured to adapt a memory training program
 in dependence upon feedback obtained from each user participating in a memory training
 program. For example, control module 120 may determine how long it takes a particular user to
 complete a given memory training module, and how many tasks in each training module are
 successfully completed without errors. Control module 120 may also receive feedback from
 sensors indicating the level of brain activity in particular regions of the brain. Based on this
feedback, control module 120 may modify the training program to either increase or decrease
the level of difficulty of the selected memory training modules. The level of difficulty may be
 increased, for example by increasing the number of tasks, placing a larger number of objects in
a VR environment for recall, or making the VR environment more complex with the addition of
doors, hallways, and paths and reduction of landmarks. Similarly, the level of difficulty can be
decreased by reducing the number of tasks, using fewer objects, or making the VR environment
less complex with more landmarks, and a reduced number of doors or paths for selection.
In addition to direct measurement of user results in completing a memory training module,
control module 120 may obtain additional feedback by directly engaging the user to answer
questions following completion of a memory training module. For example, control module 120
may ask the user to rate the perceived level of difficulty of a particular training module, and may
adapt the training program based on the user's direct feedback.
In another embodiment, control module 120 may be configured to receive physiological
feedback, e.g. but not limited to heart rate, heart coherence, Electro Encephalogram (EEG),
EEG coherence, measures of activity levels by body motion detection, or an MRI scan of a
participant's brain structure and/or activity during, or shortly after completing a memory training
module.     As will be described in more detail below, areas of the brain which have been
stimulated and activated by the memory training module may be identified by highlighting the
degree of increased activity in a particular region of a brain measured with MRI in terms of grey
                                                     15

  matter and blood flow. For an example an MRI scan could be used to determine the duration
  and frequency of the training module.
  In an embodiment, control module 120 may generate new training modules for use in a
  participant's memory training program based on feedback received from a user during the
 course of her participation in the memory training program. For example, the new training
 modules may be based on a VR environment containing a standard set of tasks, objects,
 number of paths, etc. which need to be modified to either increase or decrease the level of
 difficulty. Such customized memory training modules may then be stored in database 110 in
 order to be offered to a particular user based on their individual profile. Based on measurement
 of any improvements in results, control module 120 will determine if the customized new training
 modules have been more effective or less effective.          Over the course of time, based on
 measured feedback, control module 120 may determine to what degree to either increase or
 decrease the level of difficulty to try to optimize the memory training program.     However, an
 override of the control module 120 may be initiated if necessary.
 In another embodiment, control module 120 may include a virtual coach for providing feedback
 and coaching to a participant interacting with a memory training module. In an embodiment, the
 virtual coach may be represented as an avatar within the VR environment with which the user
 can interact. For example, the virtual coach may appear at the start of each memory training
 module to provide verbal and/or text guidance on how the user should perform the memory
training tasks in the module. In this manner, the present system and method may achieve better
training outcomes by ensuring that the user performs the memory training tasks as intended.
Similarly, in the course of a memory training session, if the user should appear to be having
difficulty, the virtual coach can appear to provide clues and encouragement for the user to
continue the memory training session.        Upon completion of a memory training session, the
virtual coach can provide the user with feedback on how the user did, and may provide the user
with congratulations for doing well, or providing encouragement and providing advice on how
the user can improve further. It will be appreciated that the virtual coach's avatar may take any
form, including a digital representation or photo of a person known to the user, such that the
user feels more comfortable with interacting with the system. The avatar can be standard or it
can be of the user's choice, including a custom made avatar of different ethnicity, culture,
language, age, sex, and physical appearance (in terms of physical body features and clothing).
                                                 16

   Now referring to FIG. 2, shown is a schematic flow chart of a method 200 in accordance with an
  embodiment. As shown, method 200 begins and at block 210 method 200 executes at least
  one VR memory training module including one or more memory training tasks to be performed
  within a navigable three-dimensional (3D) environment. Method 200 then proceeds to block
  220, where method 200 displays a navigable 3D environment via an output to a display.
  Method 200 then proceeds to block 230, where method 200 receives an input from an
  interactive navigational controller.
  In an embodiment, method 200 further proceeds to block 240, where method 200 performs one
  or more scans (e.g. a pre-training scan, a post-training scan, or in-training scan) of brain
  structure and/or activity, whereby, the effectiveness of the at least one VR memory training
  module in targeting a selected region of the brain can be measured. Method 200 then proceeds
 to block 250, where method 200 further determines which VR memory training module to
  retrieve and execute in dependence upon the measured effectiveness of a previous VR memory
 training module training session in targeting a selected region of the brain.
 The remainder of the specification will provide a detailed discussion of an illustrative
 embodiment of the present system and method.
 In an illustrative embodiment, a 4-on-8 virtual maze (4/8VM) virtual navigation task was
 established to serve to distinguish between different learning strategies. In the first part of the
 task, participants had to retrieve four objects at the end of four open paths out of eight that
 extend from a central platform. In the second part, the objects were placed in the paths that
were previously blocked and participants were asked to retrieve them. Spatial learners were
distinguished from response learners using probe trials in which environmental landmarks were
removed. As shown in FIGS. 3A and 38, an fMRI task confirmed that the participants who
employed spatial strategies, but not those who used response strategies, showed increased
activity in the HPC relative to baseline. More particularly, FIGS. 3A and 3B show regions of
activity in the hippocampus (HPC), and caudate nucleus (CN) found in the spatial learning
group and response learning group respectively. The t-maps are superimposed onto the
anatomical average of all participants and displayed in the sagittal and coronal plane. In FIG.
3A, the activity shown is in the right HPC when contrasting the experimental and control
conditions of the spatial learning group minus those of the response learning group in the first
scan (x = 32, y = -12, z = -22, t = 4.17). In FIG. 3B, the activity shown is in the right CN found in
                                                  17

  the response learning group (scan 5) (x = 14, y = -8, z = 22; t = 4.04). The response group, on
 the other hand, showed sustained increased activity in the CN.
 The hypothesis that spatial strategies on the 4/8VM are associated with the HPC was further
 supported in a lesion study.          Patients were tested after undergoing a unilateral surgical
  resection of the medial temporal lobe, which includes the HPC, for the treatment of epilepsy. In
 line with earlier fMRI results, spatial learners with damage to the HPC were significantly
 impaired on the 4/8VM relative to response learners with similar damage.             Thus, response
 strategies involve a neural circuitry that is independent of the HPC whereas spatial strategies
 critically require the HPC.
 Neuroanatomically, spatial learners have more grey matter in the HPC than response learners.
 In another study, thirty anatomical MRI scans were obtained from young adult participants
 (average age: 27.9). Voxel Based Morphometry (VBM), a completely automated analysis,
 revealed that the number of errors on the probe trial, in which all spatial landmarks are
 removed, significantly correlated with grey matter density in the right HPC. More particularly,
 FIG. 3C shows the regression analyses between the grey matter density (HPC and CN) and the
 errors made by the entire group of young adult human participants while performing the probe
 trial. The right side of FIG. 3C shows the results superimposed onto an anatomical MRI and
 displayed in the sagittal plane. Grey matter density in the right HPC at the peak (x = 24, y = -13,
z = -20; t-statistic = 3.55) was correlated with spatial learning strategies (r = 0.56, p < 0.005; top
 panel) whereas the density in the head of the CN at the peak (x = -14, y = 28, z = 4; t-statistic =
-4.33) was correlated with response learning strategies (r = -0.63, p < 0.005; bottom panel).
Aside from a negative correlation between probe errors and the tail of the CN (x = -26, y = -32, z
= 3; t-value = -4.07; with a correlation coefficient r = 0.56, p < 0.005), no other region of the
brain crossed the threshold for significance corrected for multiple comparisons. The vertical bars
illustrate the range of t-statistical values.
Interestingly, the response group had the lowest grey matter density in the HPC and highest in
the CN. These findings are consistent with the study of London taxi drivers which showed a
positive correlation between the volume of the posterior HPC and experience driving a taxi. The
present system and method is this study is the first to associate HPC to navigation in healthy
young adults without a particular expertise.
                                                   18

 Now referring to FIG. 3D, shown is a regression analysis of grey matter density of structural
 MRIs and scores on probe trials of a concurrent spatial discrimination learning task in healthy
 older adults. Results show that grey matter density in the right HPC at the peak (x = 25.4, y =
 38.5, z = -4.6; t-statistic = 3.55) significantly correlated with higher scores on the probe trials of
 the Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning Task, a task which requires the use of a spatial
 memory strategy. Other areas of the brain that correlated with spatial memory include the
fusiform gyrus and frontal cortex, however, these peaks do not cross the statistical threshold
 after the Bonferonni correction for the entire volume.
A study has shown that a greater proportion of human older adults use response strategies
suggesting changes across the life span. It was found that 85% of children (N=243, mean age:
8.0) used spontaneous spatial memory strategies as opposed to 47.4% in young adults (N=175,
mean age: 25.1), and 39.3% in older adults (n=112, mean age: 66.4) (X2 = 64.49, p < 0.0001).
Similar results were found in MCI patients. Out of three MCI patients tested, two spontaneously
used a response strategy and one used a spatial strategy. Although the sample size is low, the
proportion of spatial and response strategies is similar to that in the healthy older adult
population. Research performed on young adults showed no relationship between previous
gaming experience and spatial memory performance, suggesting that video game experience is
unlikely to explain changes across the life span. In sum, the data suggest that in contrast to
children, there is evidence for increasing use of response strategies across the life span. This is
consistent with a memory study in which PET imaging revealed age-related changes towards
using the CN in older adults relative to the HPC in young adults.
The use of response strategies in healthy older adults may be associated with a greater risk of
dementia. Low HPC grey matter was shown to be a predictor of the conversion of MCI to AD.
Since spatial strategies are associated with increased HPC grey matter, they may also be
associated with reduced risks of AD. Results in the inventor's laboratory support this hypothesis:
FIG. 4 graphically illustrates a correlation analysis in 85 older adults (mean age = 66.6 yrs)
which shows a negative correlation between MoCA and spatial memory strategies (R2=0.0439,
p<0.05).    This suggests that older adults employing spatial strategies have better overall
cognition and that participants employing responses strategies have the poorest scores on the
MoCA test, indicative of a greater risk of dementia.
                                                    19

  The spatial memory correlation with HPC grey matter reported with VBM in human adults was
  replicated in a collaborative mouse imaging study with the inventor's laboratory, in which spatial
  memory training in adult mice induced growth in the CA fields of the HPC whereas stimulus
  response training did not.
  Shown in FIG. 5 is a postmortem VBM contrast between seven Tesla MRI scans of mice trained
  in the spatial version of a Morris Water Maze (MWM) task against the MRI scans of mice trained
  in the response version (response-cued MWM). One group of mice received the standard
  spatial memory training of the Morris Water Maze task, in which external visual landmarks
  around the maze could be used to find a hidden escape platform. Another group received
  response training, in which the escape platform was indicated by a flag and the external
  landmarks were hidden behind a curtain. After five days of training, the mice were euthanized,
  injected with a contrast agent, and scanned on a 7 Tesla MRI scanner. Growth in the HPC of
 spatial learners is labeled in blue. Growth in the Striatum of response learners is identified in
 red. Results showed a significant increase in HPC grey matter in the spatial group (12% in
 dentate gyrus of the HPC and 16% in CA1 layer of HPC) and a significant increase in striatal
 grey matter in the response group (11% in CN and putamen). Note that the CN and Putamen,
 which form the Striatum in humans, are merged into one structure called the striatum in rodents.
 Cytoarchitectural analyses showed no difference in cell body counts. However, the lower figure
 shows a significant increase in GAP-43 labeling in the dentate gyrus of the HPC in the mice
 trained on the spatial versions relative to control and response-cued MWM-trained mice. GAP
 43 is present in pre-synaptic terminals and is evidence for axonal growth. The mouse study
 suggests that spatial learning promotes growth of grey matter in the HPC and that response
 learning does not.
 In other words, certain types of learning, such as response learning, do not impact HPC grey
matter. The causal link between spatial memory training and growth in HPC grey matter shown
here and previously inferred in a human VBM study provides supportive evidence for a spatial
memory-based intervention program.
The above lines of evidence point to the necessity of dissociating spatial and response learning
strategies in order to specifically target the HPC in a cognitive improvement program. Earlier
studies suggest that over 60% of healthy elderly and MCI patients will spontaneously use
response strategies. As such, cognitive intervention programs based on memory training that do
                                                 20

not dissociate strategies may or may not engage the HPC. Should other regions of the brain,
such as the CN, be engaged, the intervention method could have far less of an impact on
improving AD outcomes. Thus, in an embodiment, the proposed intervention the SMIP may be
based on tasks that have been shown to be sensitive to the function of a specific region of the
brain, such as the HPC.
In an embodiment, MCI patients and healthy controls were part of one of two groups: the
experimental group (SMIP) or the PC group. They were assigned to a group in a random
fashion by using a stratified randomization method as shown in FIG. 6. Participants are
assigned to a group in a random fashion by using a stratified randomization method (Friedman,
Furberg, & DeMets, 1998), with a block size of four so that the number of participants in the two
groups is balanced after every set of four participants. Using an Excel function, for example,
random numbers between 0 and 1 are generated for each participant in a set of four
participants. They are then ranked in ascending order, and assigned a group based on their
rank by the computer. Thus, the assignments of participants will be completely unpredictable.
The groups were balanced in terms of sex, age, and education. The randomization process is
performed within every combination of these factors (stratum), i.e. different group assignment
sequences are generated for each stratum. Thus, within each clinical group (MCI and healthy
older adults), participants of each of the four categories (Women vs. Men, High-Educated vs.
Low-educated) are randomly assigned to the training or the control condition. Based on
Statistics Canada's criterion, an individual is considered highly educated if he has completed
more than 11 years of formal school education.
A table representing the stratified randomization process is shown in FIG. 6B.
A research assistant who is not involved in this specific project is in charge of the randomization
process. The assignment takes place when participants are first contacted for a phone
interview. The study is double-blind: neither the participant nor the research assistants
administering the pre- and post-neuropsychological transfer tests knows which group the
participant is assigned to. The only person who has this information is the research assistant
administering the training. Extra precaution is taken so that no information about the training
sessions is divulged, since the laboratory environment is shared by both the person in charge of
                                                21

 training and research assistants. Moreover, participants are asked not to talk about any matter
 pertaining to their training to other research members in the laboratory.
 Now referring to FIG. 7, shown is a list of different VR memory training modules in accordance
 with an embodiment.        In an illustrative experiment, these VR memory training modules were
 administered in 16 sessions of one hour duration, given across eight weeks.
 The virtual tasks that form the training program and the transfer tests described below were
 constructed using a 3D gaming editor called Unreal Tournament Editor 2003 (UT2003, Epic
 Games). This gaming editor was selected based on availability to the inventor, and it will be
 understood by those skill in the art that other 2D graphics, 3D editors or engines could also be
 used to generate the virtual environment.
The 3D gaming editor allowed the design of realistic 3D virtual environments varying in size
from small rooms to complex cities and outdoor landscapes utilizing a rich array of textures.
 Previous research in rodents and research conducted in the inventor's laboratory shows that
healthy individuals shift from spatial to response strategies with increased practice or repetition.
Consequently, in order to maintain HPC stimulation, it is critical to have participants train in
novel environments in order to prevent stimulus-response based habit learning, which no longer
requires the HPC. As such, the inventor spent a number of years developing and validating
different virtual environments (see FIG.7 for an illustrative set of 46 different training programs)
in which the relative positions of objects, landmarks, or rooms need to be memorized.
In an embodiment, the training program is comprised of 16 one-hour spatial memory training
sessions administered to participants twice a week during the course of eight weeks. (It will be
appreciated that these sessions could be shorter, or could be taken up as a regular training
regime for the rest of one's life to maintain brain fitness, so the spatial memory training sessions
are not limited to any length of time). During these sessions, instructors meet with participants
individually in a quiet room free of distractions. Participants are seated in front of a computer
and are given instructions before starting their tasks. The level of difficulty is adjusted for each
participant by starting with very easy tasks (low memory load, smaller region of exploration) and
progressing to a more complex level (higher memory load, progressively larger and more
complex regions to explore) only when participants reach criteria.
                                                    22

  Now referring to FIGS. 8A and 8B, shown are illustrative screenshots taken from selected VR
  memory training modules for Discrimination tasks.        In this training module, participants are
  asked to search for various shapes (left) or objects (right) from an increasing number of rooms,
 e.g. "please find the black square in the yellow room" or "find the blue car, in the black room"
 across eight environments of increasing complexity (number of rooms and objects in the rooms
  increase). With progress, attentional and cognitive demands increase gradually. Learning is
 measured in terms of latencies to find target objects. This phase prepares participants for the
 VR memory training modules for the Discrimination and Spatial Memory phase that follows.
 FIG. 9 shows an illustrative top view of rooms and a list of objects to find as specified in Table
 A, below.
                                       Discrimination Tasks
 4roomsobects                                                             Latency
 (Orange room) Pencil
 (Red room) 7 up can
 (Blue room) Battery
 (Red room) Mushroom
 (Green room) Shovel
 (Blue room) Sword
 (Red room) Canoe
 (Green room) Chair
(Orange room) Fork
(Blue room) Mug
(Green room) Needle
                                              Table A
In an embodiment, participants are required to search for and locate shapes or objects (e.g.,
find the blue car, find the red square) across eight environments of increasing complexity, where
the number of rooms and objects in the rooms increase - see FIGS. 8 and 9 for further details.
In another embodiment, participants begin by engaging in the exploration of a realistic-looking
environment. They must locate specific objects or rooms and remember their exact positions.
Participants are asked to reproduce a top view of the environment including either the objects in
                                                 23

it or the layout of its rooms. Remembering the relative positions of objects in a room, from a
different perspective, was previously proven to require the HPC.
FIGS. 10A and 10B show illustrative screen shots taken from VR memory training modules for
Discrimination and Spatial Memory tasks. In this illustrative example, participants must locate
objects or rooms and remember their exact position. As participants progress through the tasks,
the memory load and difficulty increases across 10 different environments. As the participants
progress, they are presented with an increasing number of objects, more complex environments
or more complex list of instructions to complete sequentially. Participants are asked to either
reproduce a top view of the environment (including the objects in it or the relative position of
rooms) or follow a set of instructions concerning things to do in the rooms. Trials are given until
participants place all objects in their correct position or until they reach a maximum of trials.
Learning is measured in terms of errors in placing objects and latencies to the target objects
and locations.
In another embodiment, participants are placed in a room and presented with an array of
objects placed on a table. Participants are instructed to examine and learn the precise location
of these objects as viewed from all four sides of the table. Remembering positions of objects on
a table has previously proven to require the HPC. FIG. 11 shows a top view of a suitable virtual
environment.     Table B below provides an illustrative example of a list of instructions for
participants to follow.
                                        List of Instructions
1. You've just come home.
2. Put your keys on the table in front of you.
3. Hang up your jacket in the closet to your right.
4. Go to the KITCHEN and get yourself some milk.
5. Head to the LIVING ROOM and turn on the television.
6. Check on your mushroom collection in the GREENHOUSE.
7. Pick up one of the books on the small table in the LIBRARY.
8. Fix yourself a toast in the KITCHEN.
9. Find the sewing kit in the YELLOW BEDROOM.
10. Repair the top hat in the MAIN ENTRANCE.
11. Wash your hands in the BATHROOM with the soap on the sink.
                                                 24

12. Find the seat without a plate or glass in the DINING ROOM.
13. Feed the fish in the aquarium.
 14. Play some music on the piano in the LIBRARY.
 15. Check on the fireplace in the LIVING ROOM.
 16. Turn on the fan in the RED BEDROOM.
 17. Go to bed in the YELLOW BEDROOM.
                                               Table B
FIGS. 12A and 12B show illustrative screenshots of a VR memory training module for Object
Location tasks. Here, participants must remember the location of objects (top) or shapes
(bottom) placed on a table. Participants are then asked to reproduce a top view of the objects
on the frame of the table provided to the participants. Trials are given until participants place all
objects in their correct position or until a maximum of four trials is reached. The number of
objects or shapes increases as participants progress through the tasks. Learning is measured in
terms of errors, as determined by the difference in distance between an object's actual and
observed location. The memory load and difficulty increases across 20 different virtual
environments.
In an embodiment, the maximum number of trials for any given VR memory training module has
been selected to be four, such that repetition does not lead to the participants relying less on
using the HPC region of their brains and more on the CN region. While a maximum of four trials
is preferred, setting a maximum of two to six trials may still have the desired effect of focussing
on the HPC region for exercise.
Now referring to FIG. 13, shown is an illustrative example of a top view of a score sheet and a
list of objects including: 1. A blue ball; 2. A red triangle; and 3. A yellow square, to place in the
Object Location tasks. This task measures the participant's ability to make a mental map of the
space that includes all the elements in that space (e.g. the objects) and their relationships. This
activity taps directly into the embodiment of using a spatial memory strategy.
In another embodiment, the ability of participants to remember a sequence of previously seen
objects and locations is examined (i.e. memory for temporal order, a component of memory that
is dependent on the HPC). Remembering when an event was experienced was previously
                                                   25

  proven to require the HPC. FIGS. 14A and 14B, shown are illustrative screenshots of a VR
  memory training module for spatio-temporal order tasks.         Here, participants travel along a
  predetermined path from which objects or locations are visible (e.g., pencil, shovel, church,
 zoo). While travelling along a straight path, participants must remember the objects or locations
  in the order that they were presented to the participant. Trials are given until participants list all
 objects or locations in their correct temporal order or until a maximum of four trials is reached.
  Learning is measured in terms of errors. The memory load and difficulty increases with number
 of objects to remember across four environments. In another example, FIGS. 15A - 15J show
 illustrative screen shots of a VR memory training module for placing landmarks in temporal
 order in the spatio-temporal order tasks.
 In another embodiment, participants explore environments ranging in size from a small village to
 a large urban landscape that contain multiple landmarks. Following a 20- to 30-minute
 exploration, participants must reach target locations (e.g. a movie theatre) and remember their
 position respective to other landmarks within the environment. Remembering the positions of
 landmarks in a virtual town was previously proven to require the HPC.         FIGS. 16A and 16B
 show illustrative screenshots taken from VR memory training modules for navigation tasks.
 Participants learn the location of objects or landmarks while exploring environments. The size of
 the environments to be explored increases as participants progress successfully through the
 tasks.
Additional Traininq Modules
 Participants may be encouraged to train their short-term memory by occupying their attention
with working memory (WM) demands such as counting backwards by 3 from 1000. Based on
these results, the inventor proposes a variety of WM tasks that may activate regions of the
frontal lobe. These WM tasks use the same virtual environments as the SMIP to control for the
visuo-motor demands of the training, and consists of the same number of sessions and same
task durations as the SMIP. As an illustrative example, participants are presented with five
types of WM tasks as shown in FIGS. 18 - 22.
                                                  26

 In an embodiment, participants are required to keep track and to subsequently repeat a
 sequence of numbers and letters. This task is widely accepted as a measure of WM and WM
 capacity. In an earlier study, the performance of an auditory NLS task was associated with
 activation in areas of the brain previously linked to WM, namely the premotor cortex, orbital
 frontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and posterior parietal cortex. In the present training
 module, participants are asked to follow a yellow line through the rooms. Along the line are
 panels with either a number or letter. As shown in FIG. 18, participants are asked to follow the
yellow line through the rooms. Along the line are panels with either a number or letter. When the
 participants touch the panel, the panel disappears and the next one appears. Participants are
asked to remember the sequence as they go along and when they reach the end of the room,
they are asked to write down the whole sequence in order of presentation (e.g. P3AH79J5). If
the participants make a mistake in the sequence, they are asked to redo that specific room until
the correct sequence is learned. The task requires the use of working memory rather than
spatial memory and performance is measured by trials to criteria. This task can be made easier
when necessary (e.g. for MCI patients) by reducing the number of panels to remember.
In another embodiment, participants are asked to follow a yellow line through the environment.
Along the line are panels with a letter from A to Z in random order. When the participants touch
a panel, the panel disappears and the next one appears. As shown in FIG. 19, participants are
asked to follow the yellow line through the museum. Along the line are panels with a letter from
A to Z. Participants are asked to signal when a letter presented is the same as the letter
presented 1, 2, or 3 panels before. The task requires the use of working memory. This task can
be made easier when necessary (e.g. for MCI patients) by reducing the number of interfering
panels or placing several identical panels in a row. A meta-analysis of n-back neuro-imaging
studies found consistently robust activation in frontal and parietal cortical regions in participants
performing the task. Similar findings confirm that the performance of the n-back task in both
men and women results in activation of the superior frontal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, inferior
frontal gyrus, and inferior parietal lobule. In addition to NLS and the n-back task, the control task
includes three variations on basic addition and subtraction exercises that require WM.
In another embodiment, participants are asked to follow the yellow line around the table
clockwise from the start position. Along the line are white circles. Participants are asked to
subtract the number three at every circle, starting from the number 1000 (Fig.20). This task can
increase in complexity as needed by asking participants to subtract larger numbers as they find
                                                   27

   white circles. Once the participants have circled the table, they are then asked to circle the
   table again but this time subtracting four from their last number. The participants are asked to
    repeat the process again, this time subtracting six, and to give the final number when they are
   done. The task requires the use of working memory.
    In another embodiment, participants are asked to follow the yellow line along the middle of the
   road or hallway. As shown in FIG. 21, participants are asked to walk down the middle of the
   road. Starting from the number 100, they are asked to subtract two every time they pass a
   lantern on the left and add three every time they pass a lantern on the right. The participants are
   asked to give a final number once they reach the end of the road. The task requires the use of
 ) working memory.
   In another embodiment, as shown in FIG. 22, participants are asked follow the yellow line
   through the town. Along the path are green, red, and yellow panels. As the participants walk
   along the path, they are asked to keep count of the number of panels of each color. At intervals
   throughout the town participants are asked to give their total count of each color panel. The task
   requires the use of working memory. Two of these tasks may be described as dual-tasks, one
   as a form of task-switching. Such tasks have been shown to activate the dorsolateral prefrontal
   and parietal cortices.
   Alternative Training Modules
   In another embodiment, participants are given placebo control training in order to address non
   specific factors related to the SMIP, such as navigation to the laboratory, social interaction with
   the experimenters, and general cognitive stimulation.
   Previous fMRI research indicates that a suitable control for the spatial memory tasks involves a
   control task that prevents participants from rehearsing spatial relationships by occupying their
   attention with a task. This kind of control task does not lead to activity in the HPC, even when it
5  is based in a virtual environment. Based on these results, an "educational training placebo
   control" was modeled from studies in the literature. This control consists of the same number of
   sessions and same task durations as the SMIP. It involves a learning-based training approach
   in which participants use computers to view DVD educational programs on nature, cultures, and
   science.
   In each of the 16 one-hour sessions, participants watch a 50-minute program. After watching
                                                    28

the video, participants complete written quizzes. These quizzes involve questions relating to the
 content knowledge presented by the DVD in that session. This protocol uses audio-visual
 stimulation presented on a computer, as the SMIP, which controls for the visual attentional
 demands of the training. This protocol follows the successful placebo control task used
 previously. For example, it was shown that the performance of participants in the placebo
 control and the no-contact control group (NCC) were equivalent. Participants who underwent
the experimental training condition showed significantly greater improvements on cognitive
 measures compared to those who did the placebo control condition.
                                          Experimental Design
                   Experimental                                        Placebo Control
Healthy: Sessions 1 to 4                               Healthy: Sessions 1 to 4
MCI : Sessions 1 - 4 including MRI                     MCI : Sessions 1 -4 including MRI
                                              Transfer Tests
 Balanced for order of administration, time of day (AM vs PM) that participants get tested in each
                                                   group
Session 1: Neuropsychological tests, 4/8VM,            Session 1: Neuropsychological tests, 4/8VM,
Wayfinding in the Virtual Town                         Wayfinding in the Virtual Town
Session 2: Neuropsychological tests, self- Session 2: Neuropsychological tests, self
administered questionnaires                            administered questionnaires
Session 3: Mock Scanning Session.                      Session 3: Mock Scanning Session.
Task administered: Go/No-Go                            Task administered: Go/No-Go
Session 4: fMRI scan - task administered: Session 4: fMRI scan - task administered:
Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning
Task                                                   Task
                                                 Training
16 one-hour Spatial, Temporal and Working              16 one-hour Placebo Control
Memory Improvement
                                             Transfer Tests
    Different versions of all virtual navigation tests and Neuropsychological tests are provided,
                    balanced for the version administered before or after training
Session 1: Neuropsychological tests, 4/8VM,            Session 1: Neuropsychological tests, 4/8VM,
Wayfinding in the Virtual Town                        Wayfinding in the Virtual Town
Session 2: Neuropsychological tests, self- Session 2: Neuropsychological tests, self
administered questionnaires                            administered questionnaires
Session 3: Mock Scanning Session.                      Session 3: Mock Scanning Session.
                                                    29

   Task administered: Go/No-Go                        Task administered: Go/No-Go
   Session 4: fMRI scan - task administered:           Session 4: fMRI scan - task administered:
   Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning          Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning
   Task                                               Task
                                                     Table C
   1. Small Park
   2. Seaview Mall
   3. Taxi Center
   4. Louie's Restaurant
   5. Ewe & Lamb Restaurant
   6. Mulligan's Pub
   7. Multimags
   8. Kirin Restaurant
   9. Newspaper Shop
   10. Dollarama
   11. Desjardins Bank
   12. Big Burger
   13. IGA
                                                 Table D
   In another embodiment, a 4/8VM computerized task is used to investigate spontaneous
  strategies used by participants and also to investigate the impact of SMIP on acquisition of the
5 task in terms of errors and time it takes to complete the task. Participants have to find four
  hidden objects in an eight-arm radial-maze, as described further below. Participants are trained
  to criterion, ensuring learning in all participants. As shown in FIG. 27, in Part 1, participants
  retrieve 4 objects at the end of 4 available paths out of 8 that extended from a central platform.
  In Part 2, participants remember which paths they had already visited and avoid these in order
0 to find the remaining 4 objects. Landmarks surrounding the maze apparatus provide orientation
  cues. Task is used to dissociate strategies: spatial vs. response with the use of a probe trial
  during which all landmarks are removed and a wall is raised in order to hide the landscape. Only
  the participants who learned to find the objects with a response strategy (sequence of right or
  left turns from a single starting position) perform well. People who learned the location of target
                                                    30

    objects with respect to landmarks make errors on the probe trial. Therefore, the probe trial is
    used to dissociate between spatial and response strategies.          Measures of learning include
    reference memory errors (i.e. going into the wrong path for the first time), working memory
    errors (i.e. entries into a previously visited path), and latencies.
 5  In another embodiment, participants explore a town containing eight landmarks, as shown in
    FIG. 28, such as a pool, a retail shop, a cinema, etc., for 20 min during which the experimenter
    verifies that each landmark of the virtual town has been visited at least twice. This is followed by
    six trials wherein the participant begins at one of the eight landmarks and is asked to reach a
    particular target using the shortest possible route. The ability to generate a direct route is an
 )  indication of spatial learning abilities based on a cognitive map that is formed in the 20 min.
    exploration phase. The deviation of the route taken from the shortest possible route is the
    dependent variable. Measures of learning include path lengths and latencies to target locations.
    In another embodiment, a go/no-go task consisting of three parts is administered during a
    practice "Mock" MRI scanning session in order to allow participants to practice lying still and to
    reduce exclusion rates due to motion artefacts. In the first part, participants are presented with
   six pathways one by one, three of which contain an object. Upon the fourth presentation,
    participants are given the choice between entering and not entering each of the six pathways.
   This step ensures that participants have learnt which pathways contain an object and which are
   empty. In the second part, the previous pathways are presented in pairs, as shown in FIGS. 29A
 ) - 29C.      In Part 1 shown in FIG. 29A, participants visit 6 pathways, one by one, 3 of which
   contain an object. Upon the 4th presentation, participants choose to enter into a pathway or not
   if they do not believe it contains an object. In Part 2 shown in FIG. 29B, pairs of pathways are
   presented (top figure). Participants have to choose the pathway containing an object. This part
   dissociates the ability to use hippocampal dependent spatial learning from response learning. In
5  this part, people who learned the location of target objects using a response strategy (e.g. when
   I see the tower, take the left pathway) will make errors (because upon learning in Part 1, the
   target object was also located to the left of the tower). However, people who learned the spatial
   relationship between the pathway containing the target object and the environment, will not
   make errors (e.g. I remember that this particular pathway did not contain the object, so I choose
o  the other one (on the right)). Finally, in Part 3 shown in FIG. 29C, all pathways are presented,
   participants must locate all objects (lower figure showing the maze from a birds eye view that is
   never seen by the participant from this perspective). Within each of these pairs, one pathway
                                                       31

   contains an object and the other is empty. Participants have to choose the pathway containing
   an object. This part dissociates HPC-dependent relational learning from non-relational learning.
   Learning is measured in terms of latencies as well as errors.
   Now referring to FIG. 30, in an embodiment, a Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning Task
5  (CSDLT) is presented during an fMRI session as a VR task in which healthy and MCI
   participants have to find a target object among a pair of arms presented simultaneously, inside a
   12-arm radial maze. One of these two arms contains an object located in a pit at the end of the
   arm, whereas the other arm does not. Participants can learn the position of the arms containing
   objects by referring to the landscape enhanced with mountains, trees, desert, oasis,
D surrounding the maze. In the first stage, participants are given multiple trials to learn the location
  of six objects, presented in six different pairs of arms. The probe trial involves recombining the
  pairs of arms so that participants are confronted with having to find the object in a novel pair. If
  the participants remember the position of the object with respect to the environmental
  landmarks, they will perform well in the probe trials. On the other hand, if participants encoded
5 the position of objects using a response strategy (e.g. when I see the tower, go left) they will
  perform poorly in the probe trials. This particular task was modeled after a task used in rodents
  which showed selective impairments in the recombination phase in elderly rodents and which
  correlated with a reduction in activity of CA3 neurons in a FOS imaging study. In summary, the
  advantage of these tests over most of the existing spatial memory tests in the literature is that
3 they allow all of the research participants to learn the tasks to criterion, thus controlling for
  confounding (non-cognitive) changes in affect, motivation, perception, or motor control
  associated with senescence.
  In addition to these tests, the backwards and forward digit span of the WAIS-ll, which is a
  measure of frontal cortex dependent executive function, is used to monitor potential benefits
5 from the SMIP tasks. Altogether, the cognitive battery is distributed in two separate sessions in
  order to control for fatigue effects. Each session lasts between two and three hours, including
  resting breaks. In addition, participants undergo a Mock Scanning while performing the go/no-go
  session and an fMRI scanning session while performing the CSDLT.
  Mock Scan with Go/No-Go task: Prior to the two functional and structural scans (before and
o after the SMIP), participants take part in a mock scanning session with a 0 Tesla scanner. The
  scanner is used to duplicate the actual scanning experience, including sounds heard and
                                                   32

    presentation of visual stimuli, but without any exposure to magnetic fields. These mock sessions
    are used to screen for claustrophobia, proper use of button manipulation, and as a practice
    session for the actual scan. The Go/No-Go Task, described above, involves learning the
    location of target objects by exploring pathways presented one at a time. In concurrence with
 5  the experimental task, participants must also alternately complete two control tasks, in order to
    simulate the learning situation of the fMRI scan. Participants are told that they will perform two
   tasks while in the scanner: the "Experimental" task and the "Random" task (visuo-motor control
   task). Both tasks are set in different virtual environments. An important difference between the
   two tasks is that the position of objects can be learned in the experimental task whereas the
 ) objects are placed in random arms in the control task. Panels indicating "Experiment" or
   "Random" are placed in the virtual environments and are presented to the participants for about
   five seconds at the beginning of each trial.
    In another embodiment, participants are asked to navigate in a different environment from the
   one used in the experimental task. They are asked to retrieve objects in a 12-arm radial maze;
 5 however, they are told that it is not possible to predict the location of the objects because they
   are assigned randomly by the program. In addition, participants are asked to count backwards
   by 3 from 1000 in order to prevent rehearsal of object locations learned in the experimental
   trials. This control task is identical to the experimental task in terms of its visual and motor
   components, differing only in the mnemonic demands of object locations. It is therefore a very
 ) efficient control task that successfully isolated HPC and CN activity in a previous protocol.
   The various transfer tests that may be conducted to test the effectiveness of the memory
   training, as described above with reference to FIGS. 25 - 30 for example, are optional and may
   not necessary need to be used.
   Results
5  After completing the VR memory training modules as described above, the participants were
   tested for improvements in their spatial memory attributable to the training focussing on
   exercising the HPC region of the brain.          The calculations for determining the percentage
   improvements may be summarized as follows:
   PI: Percent Improvements:
O  PI = Al/Average (et1, et2, ctl, ct2)*100
   Al: Absolute Improvements:
                                                     33

       Al = (Average (et1n - et2n)) - (Average (ctln - ct2n))
       et1: Experimental Transfer 1
       et2: Experimental Transfer 2
       ctl: Control Transfer 1
' 5ct2:      Control Transfer 2
       n1: subject 1, n2: subject 2...
        In the above calculations, the Absolute Improvement scores do not allow for comparisons
       between tasks, as they represented values which differed in scale and units of measure. For
       example, the MoCA was measured by adding scores, whereas the Wayfinding task was
  )    measured as path lengths and latencies. As such, the averages of each task may be pooled for
       both groups and both time points and divided the Al by this average pool to obtain a Percent
       Improvement (Pl) representing a measure of improvement comparable across tasks regardless
       of units of measure or scale they reflected.
       Upon analysing the results of the training activity, it was found that there were significant
       improvements specific to spatial memory in the experimental group only. Participant
       demographics and overall cognitive function presented in Table 1 show that the experimental
       and control groups were similar. Tables 2-3 show results displayed in terms of percent
       improvement so that comparisons can be made from test to test.
       Improvements observed were calculated relative to the performance of the placebo control
  )    group (PC group will be used in the future). Importantly, there were no improvements on
       neuropsychological tests of verbal memory and executive function demonstrating the specificity
       of the SMIP for spatial memory. A paired t-test (calculated on RANKS due to the low sample
       size) revealed a significant SMIP effect in lowering errors on the 4/8VM [t=4.64, p<0.001],
       shortening routes to attain specific target locations in the wayfinding task [t=2.94, p<0.01], and
 5     better recall on the ROCF [t=-2.36, p<0.05] (see FIGS.32A and 32B).
       Now referring to FIG. 32A, shown are illustrative pre- and post- VR memory training graphs
       based on percent mean distance error on the Wayfinding task for Experimental and Control
       groups. Here, percent mean distance error represents the extra distance traveled compared to
       shortest distance needed to reach goal location. Bars indicate the standard error of the mean
 o     (SEM).
                                                       34

Now referring to FIG. 32B, shown are illustrative pre- and post- VR memory training graphs for a
Delayed Recall score (30min         delay) on the Rey-Osterrieth Complex            Figures test for
Experimental and Control groups. Bars indicate the standard error of the mean (SEM).
Further, trials to criterion and probe errors on the CSDLT showed significant improvements
[t=3.16, p<0.01 and t=-6.08, p<0.000 respectively] (see FIGS.33A and 33B).
FIG. 33A shows illustrative pre- and post- VR memory training graphs for the total number of
trials required to reach a specified criteria (11 entries without error out of /12) in the Concurrent
Spatial Discrimination Learning Task for Experimental and Control groups. Bars indicate the
standard error of the mean (SEM).
FIG. 33B shows illustrative pre- and post- VR memory training graphs for percent correct
responses on all probe trials for the Concurrent Spatial Discrimination Learning Task for
Experimental and Control groups. Bars indicate the standard error of the mean (SEM).
The fact that the control participants did not exhibit such improvements shows that they were
not caused by a mere "learning effect" induced by the repetition of tests. Instead, the
improvements found in the experimental group were related to the SMIP and were specific to
spatial memory. Additionally, the self-administered questionnaires showed a significant effect of
the SMIP in reducing perceived stress [t=-2.52, p<0.05]. This is interesting in the light of results
showing that healthy older adults with lower stress, lower cortisol, higher locus of control, and
higher self-esteem also have increased grey matter in the HPC. Thus, spatial memory training
may increase confidence and reduce stress related to everyday navigation, as testified by the
participants in the study, and this may in turn lead to increased HPC grey matter.
Now referring to FIGS. 34A and 34B show an illustrative contrast between post-training
functional MRI scans against pre-training functional MRI scans of healthy older adult
participants in (A) the spatial memory improvement program (SMIP) group and (B) controls. The
figures show a more extensive increase in activation in the brain in the group that received the
SMIP as compared to controls. In particular, the experimental SMIP group shows increases in
fMRI activity in the HPC from pre to post-memory training, as well as increases in activity in
other areas of cortex after training, whereas the control group shows no such changes in the
HPC or elsewhere.
                                                  35

 The SMIP led to increased HPC grey matter in the experimental group. Pre- and post-SMIP MRI
 scans were contrasted. A visible growth in the HPC can be observed in the experimental but not
 the control group, as shown in FIGS. 35A and 35B (t=1.64, p            <  0.05, uncorrected).    Now
 referring to FIGS. 35A and 35B,Voxel Based Morphometry (VBM) may be used to contrast post
 training structural MRI scans against pre-training structural MRI scans of healthy older adult
 participants in (A) the spatial memory improvement program (SMIP) group and (B) controls.
 FIG. 35A shows increases in grey matter in the HPC (at the cross hair) and several areas of
 cortex only in the group that received the SMIP. Importantly, the entorhinal cortex, which is one
 of the first regions to show Alzheimer's Disease pathology along with the HPC, also showed
 growth as a result of SMIP. In addition, the SMIP led to increased grey matter in other areas of
 the brain such as the entorhinal cortex region, the perirhinal cortex region, the parahippocampal
 cortex region, orbitofrontal cortex region, temporal cortex region, parietal cortex region, occipital
 cortex region, the frontal cortex region, and the amygdala region. The control group shows no
 such structural MRI changes between the two scans.
 Now referring to FIGS. 36A - 36C, shown are illustrative examples of the performance of three
 MCI participants in the SMIP group. Percent correct on the Discrimination task. All 3 MCI
 participants found all of the target objects in the 9 rooms. Percent correct on the Discrimination
 and Spatial memory during the last trial. Participant 1 reached criteria in 4 trials (TTC = Trials To
 Criteria) and participant 2 reached criteria in 3 trials. Participant 3 did not reach criteria,
 however, performance was above 70% on the last trial. Percent correct on last trial of the Object
 Location task. All participants correctly placed the objects in the 2, 4, 6, and 8 object conditions
 and reached criteria.
 Now referring to FIGS. 37A and 37B, the performance of MCI participants on SMIP are
graphed. FIG. 37A shows an average percent correct on last trial of Spatial-Temporal Order
task with average number of trials required to reach criteria. All 3 MCI participants recalled the
objects in the correct sequence in the 4 objects condition, however, only participants 1 and 2
completed the 6 objects condition. One MCI participant that performed the light version of SMIP
only did the 4 object condition.In order to adapt the test to all patients, a "light" version of the
tests was used for one experimental (SMIP) and one control MCI (PC) participant. The light
version involved the same environments as those described in the methods, but with fewer
objects or places to remember. FIG. 37B shows the percent correct at finding target location in
                                                   36

the Navigation task. Participant 3 did not receive the island navigation task for lack of time but
this participant did complete the navigation task in the small town.
Now referring to FIGS. 38A - 38C, shown are bar graphs of one MCI participant on the Transfer
Tests. In FIG. 38A, shown is the percent of target locations found in the Wayfinding task. In
contrast to healthy participants who find 100% of the targets, the MCI patient that was tested
found 20% target locations in the virtual town during the pre-SMIP testing. The same patient
found 100% of the target locations during the post SMIP testing. In FIG. 38B, similar results are
observed with the CSDLT and Go/no-go (not shown) where the participant could not reach
criteria before SMIP and reached criteria after SMIP. Importantly, in FIG. 38C, the probe trial of
the CSDLT indicated that the MCI participant learned the spatial relationship between the target
location and environmental landmarks, a process previously shown to require hippocampal
function.Subjective benefits showed that the participant greatly appreciated the SMIP: "I feel
more hopeful. I feel like I have the tools now. I tell myself to stop, and ask, "Where are you
going?"".
Interestingly, WM training-related changes in cortical activity among young adults has shown a
correlation between decreases in activation and improved performance on a dual-task69
suggesting an automation of responses. Importantly, these WM tasks are an excellent
complement to the SMIP described herein. An easier version of the control task was created to
ensure that all MCI participants are able to perform. The feasibility of these working memory
tasks was assessed on one MCI participant and results showed that the participant performed
above 75% on all tasks.
FIGS. 39A and 39B show the performance of one MCI participant on Working Memory tasks.
FIG. 39A shows the performance on Letter-Number Sequencing with increasing number of
panels and difficulty. The participant remembered a sequence of at least 4 panels at 75%
correct performance.    FIG. 39B shows the N-back task of N-1 with decreasing numbers of
identical panels in succession and increasing difficulty. The participant was able to successfully
remember previously seen succession of identical panels when up to 2 panels were presented
in succession. These figures show that MCI participants are capable of performing the placebo
control tasks.
                                                37

  FIGS. 40A - 40C show the performance of one MCI participant on Working Memory tasks. FIG.
 40A shows counting backwards and forwards by 3 from 1000 around the table with 8 stops.
  Participants perform at 100% correct across all levels of difficulty tested.     FIG. 40B shows
 adding and Subtracting 10 from 100 according to location of lantern (left or right). FIG. 40C
 shows memorizing numbers of color cards encountered along a path with increasing number of
 panels and difficulty. These figures show that MCI participants are capable of performing the
 placebo control tasks.
 Preliminary results also show that both MCI and healthy participants can successfully achieve
 the placebo control task with scores above 70% correct confirming feasibility of the placebo
 control task (Fig. 40B).
 FIG. 41 shows an illustrative example of a placebo control that may optionally be used. By way
 of example, a placebo task may involve passively viewing a documentary. A participant is
 asked to carefully watch a 50 min educational DVD about nature, cultures and science, on a
 computer and he is told that he will have to answer a questionnaire at the end. At the end of the
 film, he is given a written questionnaire including 10 questions. For each question, he has to
 choose the correct answer(s) among the four possible choices. The questions vary in level of
 difficulty and focus on the information that were presented in the film. The experimenter scores
 the questionnaire.    If the participants made some mistakes, the experimenter provides the
 correct answers with explanation and gives feedback to the participant about the number of
 errors.     The task performance is measured by percentage of correct answer to the
 questionnaires.
 FIG. 42 shows illustrative examples of pre-spatial memory improvement program (SMIP)
structural MRI scans of four patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). These slides show
that patients were successfully scanned with MCI before the SMIP. Based on the preliminary
behavioral results, it is expected that an increase in hippocampal grey matter would be shown
after the Spatial Memory Improvement Program (SMIP).
FIGS. 43A and 43B show pre-training functional MRI scans of Mild Cognitive Impairment and
Healthy participants, average of first experimental trial. All four MCI participants performed the
CSDLT in the scanner. This slide shows the lack of fMRI activity in the HPC during the CSDLT
in both groups. Based on the preliminary behavioral results in MCI patients, it is expected that a
                                                 38

 significant increase in fMRI activity of the HPC would be shown after the Spatial Memory
 Improvement Program (SMIP) as found in the Healthy participants as depicted in FIG. 44.
The present system and method may be practiced in various embodiments.                   A suitably
 configured computer device, and associated communications networks, devices, software and
 firmware may provide a platform for enabling one or more embodiments as described above.
 By way of example, FIG. 45 shows a generic computer device 4400 that may include a central
 processing unit ("CPU") 4402 connected to a storage unit 4404 and to a random access
 memory 4406. The CPU 4402 may process an operating system 4401, application program
4403, and data 4423. The operating system 4401, application program 4403, and data 4423
 may be stored in storage unit 4404 and loaded into memory 4406, as may be required.
 Computer device 4400 may further include a graphics processing unit (GPU) 4422 which is
operatively connected to CPU 4402 and to memory 4406 to offload intensive image processing
calculations from CPU 4402 and run these calculations in parallel with CPU 4402. An operator
4407 may interact with the computer device 4400 using a video display 4408 connected by a
video interface 4405, and various input/output devices such as a keyboard 4410, mouse 4412,
and disk drive or solid state drive 4414 connected by an I/O interface 4409. In a known manner,
the mouse 4412 may be configured to control movement of a cursor in the video display 4408,
and to operate various graphical user interface (GUI) controls appearing in the video display
4408 with a mouse button. The disk drive or solid state drive 4414 may be configured to accept
computer readable media 4416. The computer device 4400 may form part of a network via a
network interface 4411, allowing the computer device 4400 to communicate with other suitably
configured data processing systems (not shown). One or more different types of sensors may
be used to receive input from various sources.
In an embodiment, operator 4407 may interact with the computer device 4400 using VR goggles
4420 which may be worn over the eyes of the operator 4407 like glasses.            By blocking or
limiting the peripheral vision of the operator 4407 and presenting an entire field of view display,
the VR goggles 4420 may provide a more immersive visual experience. In an embodiment, the
VR goggles 4420 may be fitted with an accelerometer or other motion sensor to allow the
operator 4407 to navigate through a virtual environment by changing the position of the operator
4407, such as by turning the operator's head, for example.
                                                 39

While the above description provides illustrative examples of one or more systems or methods
in accordance with embodiments of the invention, it will be appreciated that other systems or
methods may be within the scope of the present invention as claimed below.
                                                40

                                                  41
CLAIMS
1.      A computer-implemented system for providing a virtual reality (VR) environment for
improving memory, the system adapted to:
        access at least one VR memory training module targeting at least one of the hippocampus
and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of a participant's brain including one or more memory
training tasks comprising interactive user controlled navigation tasks to be performed by the
participant within a three-dimensional (3D) environment;
        execute the at least one VR memory training module targeting the at least one of the
hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain to display a 3D
VR environment including one or more memory training tasks comprising interactive user
controlled navigation tasks;
        receive an input from the participant via an interactive controller to navigate the 3D VR
environment; and
        analyze the results of one or more measurements of the participant's brain structure or
brain activity resulting from the execution of the one or more training tasks, whereby, the
effectiveness of the at least one VR memory training module in targeting the at least one of the
hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain can be
determined.
2.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
        a control module configured to access and execute the at least on VR memory training
module;
        a VR engine configured to display the VR environment;
        an interactive navigational controller to receive the input to navigate the 3D VR
environment; and
        wherein, the system is further adapted to provide feedback to the participant on how the
participant should perform the one or more memory training tasks comprising interactive user
controlled navigation tasks.
3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more measurements of the participant's brain
structure or brain activity are obtained by one or more scans of at least one of the hippocampus
or neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain or by indirect measurements.

                                                  42
4.      The system of claim 3, wherein the one or more scans of at least one of the hippocampus
or neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain comprises a structural or
functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans or analogous imaging methods.
5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the control module is configured to determine which VR
memory training module to retrieve and execute in dependence upon the measured effectiveness
of a previous VR memory training module training session in targeting at least one of the
hippocampus or neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain.
6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the type of memory trained by the one or more memory
training tasks comprises one or more of relational memory, episodic memory, semantic memory,
declarative memory, temporal memory, spatial memory, spatio-temporal memory, working
memory, short-term memory, navigation, and wayfinding.
7.      The system of claim 1, wherein the selected region of the participant's brain further
comprises one or more of the perirhinal cortex region, the parahippocampal cortex region,
orbitofrontal cortex region, temporal cortex region, parietal cortex region, occipital cortex
region, the frontal cortex region, the amygdala region and the caudate nucleus region.
8.      The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more VR modules targeting
discrimination, attention, perception, dual tasks, and task-switching.
9.      A computer-implemented method for providing a 3D virtual reality (VR) environment for
improving memory, comprising:
        executing at least one VR memory training module targeting at least one of the
hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of a participant's brain, including one or
more memory training tasks comprising interactive user controlled navigation tasks to be
performed by the participant within a navigable 3D VR environment;
        displaying the 3D VR environment;
        receiving an input from the participant via an interactive controller to navigate the 3D VR
environment; and
        analyzing the results of one or more measurements of the participant's brain structure or
activity resulting from the interactive user controlled navigation tasks, whereby, the effectiveness
of the at least one VR memory training module in targeting at least one of the hippocampus and
neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain can be determined.

                                                   43
10.     The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the one or more measurements
of the participant's brain structure or brain activity are obtained by one or more scans of at least
one of the hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex of the participant's brain or by
indirect measurements.
11.     The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the one or more scans of at
least one of the hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain
comprises a structural or functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans or analogous
imaging methods.
12.     The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising determining which
VR memory training module to retrieve and execute in dependence upon the measured
effectiveness of a previous VR memory training module training session in targeting at least one
of the hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain.
13.     The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the type of memory trained by
the one or more memory training tasks comprises one or more of relational memory, episodic
memory, semantic memory, declarative memory, temporal memory, spatial memory, spatio
temporal memory, working memory, short-term memory, navigation, and wayfinding.
14.     The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the selected region of the
participant's brain further comprises one or more of the perirhinal cortex region, the
parahippocampal cortex region, orbitofrontal cortex region, temporal cortex region, parietal
cortex region, occipital cortex region, the frontal cortex region, the amygdala region and the
caudate nucleus region.
15.     The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising one or more VR
modules targeting discrimination, attention, perception, dual tasks, and task-switching.
16.     A non-transitory computer readable medium storing code that when executed on a
computing device adapts the device to perform a method for providing a 3D virtual reality (VR)
environment for improving memory, the non-transitory computer readable medium comprising:
        code for executing at least one VR memory training module targeting at least one of the
hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain including one or

                                                  44
more memory training tasks comprising interactive user controlled navigation tasks to be
performed within a navigable 3D VR environment;
         code for displaying the 3D VR environment;
         code for receiving an input from the participant via an interactive controller to navigate
the 3D VR environment; and
         code for analyzing one or more measurements of brain structure or brain activity
resulting from the interactive user controlled navigation tasks, whereby, the effectiveness of the
at least one VR memory training module in targeting at least one of the hippocampus and
neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the participant's brain is determined.
17.      The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more
measurements of at least one of the hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the
participant's brain structure or brain activity comprises one or more scans or by indirect
measurements.
18.      The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more
scans of at least one of the hippocampus and neighboring entorhinal cortex region of the
participant's brain comprises a structural or functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans
or analogous imaging methods.
                                    Veronique Deborah Bohbot
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
