                                 Abstract
Mitral valve prolapse and mitral regurgitation can be treated by
implanting in the mitral annulus a transvalvular intraannular
band having an elongate        and arcuate body. The           elongate and
arcuate body has a first      end, a first     anchoring portion located
proximate    the   first  end, a    second end, a       second anchoring
portion located proximate the second end, and a central portion.
The central    portion is   displaced from the plane containing the
first    end   and   the  second   end.    The   transvalvular      band  is
positioned so that it extends transversely across a coaptive
edge formed by the closure of the mitral          valve leaflets     and the
central portion is displaced towards the left ventricle relative
to the first anchoring portion and the second anchoring portion.
The ventricular      direction displacement       moves   coaption     to an
earlier point in the cardiac cycle.

      4/16
              /0
           42    3
-2,66
    !717
         JCg8

        TRANSVALVULAR INTRAANNULAR BAND FOR VALVE REPAIR
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
         [00011     Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to treatment of
mitral or tricuspid valve prolapse and mitral regurgitation, and more specifically, relate to
the use of a transannular band to treat mitral valve prolapse and mitral regurgitation.
Description of the Related Art
         [00021      The heart is a double (left and right side), self-adjusting muscular
pump, the parts of which work in unison to propel blood to all parts of the body. The right
side of the heart receives poorly oxygenated ("venous") blood from the body from the
superior vena cava and inferior vena cava and pumps it through the pulmonary artery to
the lungs for oxygenation. The left side receives well-oxygenated ("arterial") blood from
the lungs through the pulmonary veins and pumps it into the aorta for distribution to the
body.
         [0003]      The heart has four chambers, two on each side --the right and left atria,
and the right and left ventricles. The atria are the blood-receiving chambers, which pump
blood into the ventricles. A wall composed of membranous and muscular parts, called the
interatrial septum, separates the right and left atria. The ventricles are the blood
discharging chambers. A wall composed of membranous and muscular parts, called the
interventricular septum, separates the right and left ventricles.
         [00041      The synchronous pumping actions of the left and right sides of the
heart constitute the cardiac cycle. The cycle begins with a period of ventricular relaxation,
called ventricular diastole. The cycle ends with a period of ventricular contraction, called
ventricular systole.
         [0005]      The heart has four valves that ensure that blood does not flow in the
wrong direction during the cardiac cycle; that is, to ensure that the blood does not back
flow from the ventricles into the corresponding atria, or back flow from the arteries into
the corresponding ventricles. The valve between the left atrium and the left ventricle is the
mitral valve. The valve between the right atrium and the right ventricle is the tricuspid
valve. The pulmonary valve is at the opening of the pulmonary artery. The aortic valve is
at the opening of the aorta.

         [0006]       Various disease processes can impair the proper functioning of one or
more of these valves. These include degenerative processes (e.g., Barlow's Disease,
fibroelastic deficiency), inflammatory processes (e.g., Rheumatic Heart Disease) and
infectious processes (e.g., endocarditis). In addition, damage to the ventricle from prior
heart attacks (i.e., myocardial infarction secondary to coronary artery disease) or other
heart diseases (e.g., cardiomyopathy) can distort the valve's geometry causing it to
dysfunction.
          [0007]      The mitral valve is comprised of an anterior leaflet and a posterior
leaflet. The bases of the leaflets are fixed to a circumferential partly fibrous structure, the
annulus, preventing dehiscence of the valve. A subvalvular apparatus of chordae and
papillary muscles prevents the valve from prolapsing into the left atrium. Mitral valve
disease can be expressed as a complex variety of pathological lesions of either valve or
subvalvular structures, but can also be related to the functional status of the valve.
Functionally the mitral valve disease can be categorized into two anomalies, increased
leaflet motion i.e. leaflet prolapse leading to regurgitation, or diminished leaflet motion
i.e. restricted leaflet motion leading to obstruction and/or regurgitation of blood flow.
          10008]      Leaflet prolapse is defined as when a portion of the leaflet overrides
the plane of the orifice during ventricular contraction. The mitral regurgitation can also
develop secondary to alteration in the annular ventricular apparatus and altered ventricular
geometry, followed by incomplete leaflet coaptation. In ischemic heart failure this can be
attributed to papillary or lateral wall muscle dysfunction, and in non-ischemic heart
failure it can be ascribed to annular dilation and chordal tethering, all as a result of
 dysfunctional remodeling.
          [00091      The predominant cause of dysfunction of the mitral valve is
 regurgitation which produces an ineffective cardiac pump function resulting in several
 deleterious conditions such as ventricular and atrial enlargement, pulmonary hypertension
 and heart-failure and ultimately death.
           [0010]     The main objective for the surgical correction is to restore normal
 function and not necessarily anatomical correction. This is accomplished by replacing the
 valve or by reconstructing the valve. Both of the procedures require the use of
 cardiopulmonary bypass and is a major surgical operation carrying a non-negligible early
 morbidity and mortality risk, and a postoperative rehabilitation for months with
 substantial postoperative pain. Historically, the surgical approach to patients with
                                                -2-

functional mitral regurgitation was mitral valve replacement, however with certain
adverse     consequences    such    as   thromboembolic    complications,    the    need   for
anticoagulation, insufficient durability of the valve, loss of ventricular function and
geometry.
         [0011]     Reconstruction of the mitral valve is therefore the preferred treatment
for the correction of mitral valve regurgitation and typically consists of a quadrangular
resection of the posterior valve (valvuloplasty) in combination with a reduction of the
mitral valve annulus (annuloplasty) by the means of suturing a ring onto the annulus.
These procedures are surgically demanding and require a bloodless and well-exposed
operating field for an optimal surgical result. The technique has virtually not been
changed for more than three decades.
         [0012]     More recently, prolapse of the valve has been repaired by anchoring the
free edge of the prolapsing leaflet to the corresponding free edge of the opposing leaflet
 and thereby restoring apposition but not necessarily coaptation. In this procedure a ring
 annuloplasty is also required to attain complete coaptation.
         [00131     This method commonly referred to as an edge-to-edge or "Alfieri"
repair also has certain drawbacks such as the creation of a double orifice valve and
thereby reducing the effective orifice area. Several less invasive approaches related to the
 edge-to-edge technique has been suggested, for repairing mitral valve regurgitation by
 placing a clip through a catheter to suture the valve edges. However, it still remains to
 conduct an annuloplasty procedure, which has not yet been resolved by a catheter
 technique and therefore is to be performed by conventional surgery, which makes the
 method impractical.
          [00141    Notwithstanding the presence of a variety of presently available
 surgical techniques and promising catheter based procedures for the future, there remains
 a need for a simple but effective device and corresponding surgical, minimally invasive or
 transvascular procedure to reduce mitral valve regurgitation.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          [00151     There is provided in accordance with aspect of the present invention, a
 transannular band for improving cardiac function. The band comprises an elongate and
 arcuate body, having a first end, a first anchoring portion located near the first end, and a
                                              -3-

second end, having a second anchoring portion located near the second end. A central
portion is provided, for spanning the flow path of a valve such as a mitral valve. The
central portion is displaced transversally from a plane which includes the first end and
second end. As implanted, the transverse displacement advances the coaption point of the
closed valve in the direction of the ventricle. The first end and second end are configured
to be attached to opposing sides of a mitral valve annulus, and the central portion is
configured to support the mitral valve leaflets.
         [0016]     In one embodiment, the central portion is narrower than both the first
anchoring portion and the second anchoring portion, measured in a transverse direction to
blood flow.
         [0017j     In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is
provided a method of treating valve prolapse. In one implementation of the invention, the
method is optimized for treating mitral valve prolapse.
         [00181     The method comprises the steps of implanting in the mitral valve
 annulus a transannular band comprising an elongate and arcuate body, having a first end,
 a first anchoring portion located proximate the first end, and a second end, having a
 second anchoring portion located proximate the second end.               A central portion is
 provided, for spanning the blood flow path. The central portion is displaced from a plane
 which includes the first end and the second end.
          [00191     The first anchoring portion is attached to a first portion of the mitral
 annulus, and the second anchoring portion is attached to a second portion of the mitral
 annulus, such that the transannular band extends transversely across a coaptive edge
 formed by the closure of the mitral valve leaflets. The transannular band is implanted
 such that the central portion is displaced in the direction of the left ventricle relative to the
 first anchoring portion and the second anchoring portion.
          [00201     Further features and advantages of the present invention will become
 apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the detailed description of preferred
 embodiments which follows, when considered together with the attached drawings and
 claims.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          100211     FIG. 1 is a simplified cross-sectional view of the heart with a normal
 mitral valve during systole.
                                                -4-

        [0022]      FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of the heart with a normal mitral valve
during diastole.
        [0023]      FIG. 3 is a bottom view of the normal mitral valve of FIG, 1 during
systole looking from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
        [0024]      FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the normal mitral valve of
FIG. 1 during systole, illustrating the depth of the coaption zone.
        [0025]      FIG. 5 is a bottom view of the normal mitral valve of FIG. 2 during
diastole looking from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
         [0026]     FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the normal mitral valve of
FIG. 2 during diastole.
         [0027]     FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the heart during systole showing a
mitral valve with a prolapsed anterior leaflet caused by the rupture of the chordac
tendineae attached to the anterior leaflet.
         [0028]     FIG. 8 is a bottom view of the mitral valve of FIG. 7 having a
prolapsed anterior leaflet looking from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
         10029]     FIG. 9 is a cross-sectional view of the heart during systole showing a
mitral valve with a prolapsed posterior leaflet caused by the rupture of the chordae
tendineae attached to the posterior leaflet.
         [00301     FIG. 10 is a bottom view of the mitral valve of FIG- 9 having a
prolapsed posterior leaflet looking from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
         [0031]     FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional view of the heart during systole showing a
mitral valve with anterior leaflet prolapse.
         [00321     FIG. 1 IA is a cross sectional view as in FIG. 11, showing posterior
leaflet prolapse.
         [0033]      FIG. 11B is a cross sectional view as in FIG. 11, showing bileaflet
prolapse with mitral regurgitation.
         [00341      FIG. 11 C illustrates a dilated mitral annulus with little or no coaption
of both leaflets causing central mitral regurgitation in ischemic cardiomyopathy.
         10035]      FIG. 12 is a top view of an embodiment of a transannular band.
         [0036]      FIG. 13 is a side view of the transannular band of FIG. 12.
          [0037]     FIG. 14 is a cross-sectional view of a transannular band with a
 triangular cross-section.
                                               -5-

          10038]     FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional view of a transannular band with an oblong
cross-section.
          [0039]     FIG. 16 is a cross-sectional view of a transannular band with a circular
cross-section.
          [00401     FIG. 17 is a cross-sectional view of a transannular band with a
rectangular cross-section.
          [0041]     FIG. 18 is a top view of another embodiment of a transannular band.
          [0042]     FIGS. 19A and B show a perspective view of yet another embodiment
of a transannular band, with a widened coaptive edge support portion.
          [0043]     FIGS. 20-23 are top views of other embodiments of a transannular
band.
          [0044]     FIG. 23A shows a central mitral transannular band with posterior
 annuloplasty ring.
          [0045]     FIG. 23B shows an intraannular band formed from a length of wire.
          [00461     FIGS. 24-27 are side views of other embodiments of a transannular
 band.
          [00471     FIG. 28 is a cross-sectional view of a heart during systole with a
 transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus.
           [0048]    FIG. 29 is a bottom view of the mitral valve of FIG. 28 during systole
 with a transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus looking from the left atrium to
 the left ventricle.
           [0049]     FIG. 30 is a cross-sectional view of a heart during diastole with mitral
 valve and a transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus.
           [0050]     FIG. 31 is a bottom view of the mitral valve of FIG. 30 during diastole
 with a transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus looking from the left atrium to
 the left ventricle.
           [00511     FIG. 32 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the mitral valve of FIG.
 28 during systole with a transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus.
           [0052]     FIG. 33 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the mitral valve of FIG.
  32 during systole without the transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus.
           [0053]     FIG. 34 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the mitral valve of FIG.
  30 during diastole with the transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus.
                                                -6-

         [0054]     FIG. 35 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the mitral valve of FIG.
34 during diastole without the transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus.
         [00551     FIG. 36 is a bottom view of the mitral valve during systole with
another embodiment of the transannular band implanted in the mitral annulus looking
from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
         [0056]     FIG. 37 is a cross-sectional view of a transannular band with a
transverse leaflet support.
         [0057]     FIG. 38 is a cross-sectional schematic view of the mitral valve treated
with the transannular band of FIG. 37 and an Alfieri type procedure.
            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
          [0058]    FIG. 1 illustrates a cross-sectional view of the heart 10 with a normal
mitral valve 18 in systole. As illustrated, the heart 10 comprises the left atrium 12 which
receives oxygenated blood from the pulmonary veins 14 and the left ventricle 16 which
receives blood from the left atrium 12. The mitral valve 18 is located between the left
atrium 12 and left ventricle 16 and functions to regulate the flow of blood from the left
atrium 12 to the left ventricle 16. During ventricular diastole, the mitral valve 18 is open
which allows blood to fill the left ventricle 16.        During ventricular systole, the left
ventricle 16 contracts, which results in an increase in pressure inside the left ventricle 16.
 The mitral valve 18 closes when the pressure inside the left ventricle 16 increases above
the pressure within the left atrium 12. The pressure within the left ventricle 16 continues
 increasing until the pressure within the left ventricle 16 exceeds the pressure within the
 aorta 20, which causes the aortic valve 22 to open and blood to be ejected from the left
 ventricle and into the aorta 20.
          [0059]     The mitral valve 18 comprises an anterior leaflet 24 and a posterior
 leaflet 26 that have base portions that are attached to a fibrous ring called the mitral valve
 annulus 28. Each of the leaflets 24 and 26 has respective free edges 36 and 38. Attached
 to the ventricular side of the leaflets 24 and 26 are relatively inelastic chordae tendineac
 30. The chordae tendineae 30 are anchored to papillary muscles 32 that extend from the
 intraventricular septum 34. The chordac tendineae 30 and papillary muscle 32 function to
 prevent the leaflets 24 and 26 from prolapsing and enable proper coaptation of the leaflets
 24 and 26 during mitral valve 18 closure.
          [0060]     FIG. 2 illustrates a cross-sectional view of the heart 10 with a normal
 mitral valve 18 in diastole. After the left ventricle 16 has ejected the blood into the aorta,
                                               -7-

the left ventricle relaxes, which results in a drop in pressure within the left ventricle 16.
When the pressure in the left ventricle 16 drops below the pressure in the aorta 20, the
aortic valve 22 closes. The pressure within the left ventricle 16 continues dropping until
the pressure in the left ventricle 16 is less than the pressure in the left atrium 12, at which
point the mitral valve 18 opens, as shown in FIG. 2. During the early filling phase, blood
passively fills the left ventricle 16 and this accounts for most of the filling of the left
ventricle 16 in an individual at rest. At the end of the filling phase, the left atrium 12
contracts and provides a final kick that ejects additional blood into the left ventricle.
          [0061]     FIG. 3 illustrates a bottom view of normal mitral valve 18 in systole,
looking from the left atrium and to the left ventricle. As shown, the anterior leaflet 24
and posterior leaflet 26 are properly coapted, thereby forming a coaptive edge 40 that
forms a seal that prevents retrograde flow of blood through the mitral valve 18, which is
known as mitral regurgitation. FIG. 4 provides a side cross-sectional view of a normal
mitral valve 18 in systole. As shown in FIG. 4, the valve leaflets 24 and 26 do not
normally cross the plane P defined by the annulus and the free edges 36 and 38 coapt
together to form a coaptive edge 40.
          100621     FIG. 4 also illustrates a coaption zone 41.       Preferably the depth of
 coaption (length of zone 41 in the direction of blood flow, in which the leaflets 24 and 26
 are in contact) is at least about 2 mm or 5 mm, and is preferably within the range of from
 about 7 mm to about 10 mm for the mitral valve.
          10063]     Thus, implantation of the devices in accordance with the present
 invention preferably achieves an increase in the depth of coaption. At increase of at least
 about 1 mm, preferably at least about 2 mm, and in some instances an increase of at least
 about 3 mm to 5 mm or more may be accomplished.
          [00641     In addition to improving coaption depth, implantation of devices in
 accordance with the present invention preferably also increase the width of coaptation
 along the coaption plane. This may be accomplished, for example, by utilizing an implant
 having a widened portion for contacting the leaflets in the area of coaption such as is
 illustrated in connection with FIG. 19A and 19B below. A further modification of the
 coaptive action of the leaflets which is accomplished in accordance with the present
 invention is to achieve early coaption. This is accomplished by the curvature or other
 elevation of the implant in the ventricle direction. This allows the present invention to
                                                -8-

achieve early coaption relative to the cardiac cycle, relative to the coaption point prior to
implantation of devices in accordance with the present invention.
         [0065]      FIGS. 5 and 6 illustrate normal mitral valve 18 in diastole. As shown,
the anterior leaflet 24 and posterior leaflet 26 are in a fully opened configuration which
allows blood to flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
         [00661      FIGS. 7 and 8 illustrate a heart 10 in systole where the anterior leaflet
24 of the mitral valve 18 is in prolapse. Anterior leaflet 24 prolapse can be caused by a
variety of mechanisms. For example, as illustrated in FIG. 7, rupture 42 of a portion of
the chordae tendineae 30 attached to the anterior leaflet 24 can cause the free edge 36 of
the anterior leaflet 24 to invert during mitral valve 18 closure. As shown in FIG. 8,
inversion 44 of the anterior leaflet 24 can prevent the mitral valve leaflets 24 and 26 from
properly coapting and forming a seal. This situation where the free edge 36 of the anterior
leaflet 24 crosses into the left atrium 12 during mitral valve 18 closure can lead to mitral
regurgitation.
          [00671     Similarly, FIGS. 9 and 10 illustrate posterior leaflet 26 prolapse caused
by a rupture of the chordae tendineae 30 attached to the posterior leaflet 26. In this case,
 the posterior leaflet 26 can invert and cross into the left atrium 12 during mitral valve 18
 closure. The inversion of the posterior leaflet 26 prevents the mitral valve leaflets 24 and
 26 from properly coapting and forming a seal, which can lead to mitral regurgitation.
          [00681     Mitral regurgitation can also be caused by an elongated valve leaflet 24
 and 26. For example, an elongated anterior leaflet 24, as shown in FIG. 11, can prevent
 the valve leaflets 24 and 26 from properly coapting during mitral valve 18 closure. This
 can lead to excessive bulging of the anterior leaflet 24 into the left atrium 12 and
 misalignment of the free edges 36 and 38 during coaptation, which can lead to mitral
 regurgitation.
          [0069]      One embodiment of a transannular band 50 that would improve mitral
 valve leaflet 24 and 26 coaptation and prevent or reduce mitral regurgitation is illustrated
 in FIGS. 12 and 13.     FIG. 12 provides a top view of the transannular band 50 while FIG.
  13 provides a side view of the transannular band 50. In this embodiment, the transannular
 band 50 comprises an elongate and curved structure with a first end 52, a second end 54, a
  central portion 64 located between the two ends 52 and 54, and a length that is capable of
  extending across the annulus.        The leaflet contact surface 56 is convex along the
  longitudinal axis, as best illustrated in FIG. 13. In other embodiments, the leaflet contact
                                                -9-

surface 56 can have a different shape and profile. For example, the contact surface 56 can
be concave, straight, a combination of convex, concave and/or straight, or two concave or
straight portions joined together at an apex. As illustrated in FIG. 12, the transannular
band 50 can have a substantially constant width between the first end 52 and the second
end 54. The first end 52 has a first anchoring portion 58 and the second end 54 has a
second anchoring portion 60.
         [0070]      The anchoring portions 58 and 60 can have holes 62 for sutures that
allow the transannular band 50 to be secured to the annulus. Alternatively, in other
embodiments the anchoring portions 58 and 60 can have other means for securing the
transannular band 50 to the annulus. For example, the anchoring portions 58 and 60 can
be made of a membrane or other fabric-like material such as Dacron or ePTFE. Sutures
can be threaded directly through the fabric without the need for distinct holes 62. The
fabric can be attached to the other portions of the transannular band 50 by a variety of
techniques.      For example, the fabric can be attached to the other portions of the
transannular band 50 with the use of an adhesive, by suturing, by tying, by clamping or by
fusing the parts together.
          [00711     The central portion of the transannular band 50 can have a variety of
cross-sectional shapes, as illustrated in FIGS. 14-17. For example, the cross sectional
shape can be substantially rectangular, circular, oblong or triangular. The edges of the
transannular band 50 can be rounded or otherwise configured so that the transannular
band 50 presents an atraumatic surface 51 to the valve leaflets. In some embodiments, the
 cross-section can be oriented in a particular fashion to enhance performance of the
 transannular band 50. For example as shown in FIG. 14, a transannular band 50 with a
 triangular cross section can be designed so that a relatively larger surface 56 of the
 triangle contacts the valve leaflets while a lower profile leading edge 53 of the triangle
 opposite the surface 51 faces the left atrium. This configuration allows a larger surface
 area to make contact with and support the mitral valve leaflets, while also presenting a
 more streamlined shape that provides less resistance to blood flowing from the left atrium
 to the left ventricle. Decreasing the resistance to blood flow is desirable because it can
 reduce turbulence and reduce the impedance of the transannular band 50 on the filling of
 the left ventricle.   Similarly, the transannular bands 50 with an oblong or rectangular
 cross-section can be oriented to either increase the surface area for contact with the valve
 leaflets, or be oriented to reduce the resistance to blood flow.
                                               -10-

          10072]     The dimensions of the transannular band 50 will vary, depending upon
the specific configuration of the band 50 as well as the intended patient. In general,
transannular band 50 will have an axial length from first end 52 to second end 54 within
the range of from about 20 mm to about 32 mm. In one embodiment, intended for a
typical male adult, the axial length of the transannular band 50 is about 24 mm to 26 mm.
The width of the transannular band 50 in the central zone 64 may be varied depending
upon the desired performance, as will be discussed herein. In general, the trailing surface
 51 against which leaflets will seat is preferably large enough to minimize the risk of
 erosion resulting from repeated contact between the closed leaflets and the implant. The
width of the leading edge 53 is preferably minimized, as discussed above, to minimize
 flow turbulence and flow obstruction. In general, widths of the surface 51 measured
perpendicular to the flow of blood are presently contemplated to be less than about 5 mm,
 and often within the range of from about 5 mmn to about 10 mm in the zone of coaptation.
          [00731     In some embodiments as illustrated in FIG. 18, the central portion 64
 of the transannular band 50 can be narrower in width, measured perpendicular to blood
 flow than the first and second anchoring portions 58 and 60. By narrowing the central
 portion 64, the resistance to blood flow can be reduced. However, narrowing the central
 portion 64 reduces the surface area of the leaflet contact surface 56 that supports the valve
 leaflets.
           [00741    In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 18, the narrowed central
 portion 64 is separated from the first anchoring portion 58 and second anchoring portion
 60 by a first shoulder 57 and second shoulder 59. The length of the central portion 64,
 between first shoulder 57 and second shoulder 59 can be less than about 50% of the
 overall length of the device, or less than about 30% of the overall length of the device if it
 is desired to minimize the obstruction in the center of the flow path, while presenting a
 wider transverse surface for supporting the leaflets when the valve is closed.
 Alternatively, the length of the central zone 64 may be greater than 50%, and in some
 embodiments greater than 75% of the overall length of the implant.
           [00751     In some embodiments as illustrated in FIGS. 19A, 19B, 21 and 23, a
  coaptive edge support portion 66 of the central portion 64 of the transannular band 50 can
 be wider than the adjacent portions of the transannular band 50, leading up to and
  potentially including the first and second anchoring portions 58 and 60. By increasing the
  width and surface area of the coaptive edge support portion 66, more support can be
                                              -11-

provided to the valve leaflets at the coaptive edge. This increased support can increase
the width of leaflet coaption. The other portions of the central portion 64 can remain
narrow to reduce the resistance to blood flow. The support portion 66 can be located at a
fixed position or adjustable along the transannular band so that its position can be
optimized by the surgeon and then secured at a fixed point such as by suturing, or
removed if deemed unnecessary.
          [0076]     In one implementation of the invention, the transannular band
comprises a first component for primary reduction and a second component for fine
adjustment. For example, the device illustrated in FIG. 19A may be provided with an
 adjustable (e.g. slidable) support portion 66. The transannular band may be positioned
 across the annulus as has been described herein, and hemodynamic function of the valve
may be evaluated. The support portion 66 may thereafter be adjusted along the length of
the transannular band to treat residual leakage or otherwise optimize the functionality of
the implant such as by increasing the zone of coaptation. The second component (e.g.
 support portion 66) may thereafter be fixed with respect to the transannular band such as
 by sutures, clips, adhesives, or other techniques known in the art. Alternatively, the
 second portion may be separate from and connectable to the transannular band such as
 stitching, clips, suturing or other technique known in the art.
          [0077]      In addition, the coaptive edge support portion 66 can be offset from the
 center of the transannular band 50, to reflect the asymmetry between the anterior leaflet
 and the posterior leaflet.     For example, the coaptive edge support portion 66 can be
 positioned closer to the first anchoring portion 58 than to the second anchoring portion
 60. In certain embodiments, the edge support portion 66 will be centered about a point
 which is within the range of from about 20% to about 45% of the overall length of the
 implant from the closest end.
          [00781      FIG. 20 illustrates another embodiment of a transannular band 50 that
 is a modification of the transannular band 50 shown in FIG. 18. As illustrated in FIG. 20,
 the transannular band 50 has a narrow central portion 64 that provides relatively low
 resistance to blood flow. However, the first and second anchoring portions 58 and 60
 extend further in a lateral direction, and can be arcuate to conform to the mitral valve
 annulus.     These laterally extended anchoring portions 58 and 60 provide additional
  anchoring of the transannular band 50 and can help improve the stability of the device
  after implantation. The laterally extending anchoring portion 58 and 60 may be provided
                                                -12-

with any of a variety of structures for facilitating anchoring to the valve annulus. For
example, they may be provided with a plurality of apertures 61, for conventional stitching
or to receive any of a variety of clips or tissue anchors. The anchoring portions may
alternatively be provided with any of a variety of barbs or hooks, or may be provided with
a fabric covering such as a Dacron sleeve to facilitate sewing.           Measured in the
circumferential direction (transverse to the longitudinal axis of the implant 50) the
laterally extending anchoring portions will have an arc length of greater than about 5 mm,
and, in some embodiments, greater than about 1 cm. Arc lengths of at least about 2 cm,
and, in some embodiments, at least about 3 cm may be utilized, depending upon the
desired clinical performance.
         [0079]     FIG. 21 illustrates another embodiment of a transannular band 50 with
the extended anchoring portions 58 and 60 and a wider, offset coaptive edge support
portion 66.     This embodiment has the benefit of additional stability provided by the
extended anchoring portions 58 and 60 and enhanced support of the coaptive edge.
         [0080]     FIGS. 22 and 23 illustrate another embodiment of a transannular band
50 which is combined with an annular ring 68. The annular ring 68 can be used as both a
support for the transannular band 50 and, if desired, also to help stabilize the size and
shape of the mitral valve annulus itself. In some embodiments, the annular ring 68 can be
used to reduce the size of the mitral valve annulus and to bring the mitral valve leaflets
closer together.    This can be accomplished by, for example, suturing the mitral valve
annulus to an annular ring 68 of smaller diameter.        In addition, the annular ring 68
provides additional support and stability to the transannular band 50.       The anchoring
portions 58 and 60 of the transannular band 50 can be formed integrally with the annular
ring 68, or the anchoring portions 58 and 60 can be attached to the annular ring by a
variety of means, such as suturing, bonding, adhesives, stapling and fusing,        FIG. 22
discloses an embodiment with a narrow central portion 64 while FIG. 23 discloses an
 embodiment with a wider, offset coaptive edge support portion 66.
         [0081]      FIG. 23A illustrates a further implementation of the invention, adapted
to treat ischemic mitral regurgitation with posterior annuloplasty. A transannular band 61
 is provided for spanning the leaflet coaption plane as has been described herein. Any of
 the features described in connection with other transannular bands disclosed herein may
 be incorporated into the transannular band 61.
                                              -13-

          [0082]     An arcuate posterior annuloplasty support 63 is connected to the
transannular band 61, and adapted to extend for an arc length along the native annulus. In
the illustrated embodiment, the support 63 extends through an are of approximately 180,
extending from a first trigone attachment zone 65 to a second trigone attachment zone 67.
The attachment zones may be provided with sewing apertures, a fabric covering, or other
 structure for facilitating attachment to tissue. In general, the transannular band 61 will
have dimensions similar to those described elsewhere herein. The transverse dimension
 from first trigone zone 65 to second trigone zone 67 may be varied depending upon the
 size of the native annulus, but will generally be within the range of from about 35 mm to
 about 45 mm.
          [00831     Referring to FIG. 23B, there is illustrated a transannular band in
 accordance with the present invention, formed from a single length or several lengths of
 flexible wire. The bend angles and orientation of the struts in the illustrated embodiment
 may be readily altered, to accommodate the desired axes of compression which may be
 desirable for a particular deployment procedure.
          [00841      In general, the transannular band 71 comprises an elongate flexible
 wire 73 formed into a serpentine pattern, for providing a support for the valve leaflets as
 has been discussed herein. Although not illustrated in FIG. 23B, the wire 73 may be
 formed such that it bows or inclines in the direction of the ventricle to achieve early
 closure as is discussed elsewhere herein. The wire 73 may extend into a first connection
 section 75 and a second connection section 77. Each of the connection sections 75 and 77
 may be provided with a plurality of eyelets 79, to receive sutures for attaching the implant
 to the valve annulus.      The implant may be formed from any of a variety of flexible
 materials, including various polymers described elsewhere herein as well as Nitinol,
 stainless steel or other metals known in the art. This design has an advantage of providing
 a relatively large support footprint against the valve leaflets, while at the same time
  optimizing the area of open space to permit maximum blood flow therethrough.
           [0085J     FIGS. 24-27 illustrate side views of transannular bands 50 with
  different inclinations. One of the objectives of the present invention is to not merely
  provide support to the leaflets during systole, but to elevate the plane of coaption in the
  direction of the ventricle, to cause early coaption (closure) relative to the cardiac cycle, as
  is discussed elsewhere herein. The variation in conditions, and other patient to patient
  variations may warrant production of the transannular band of the present invention in an
                                               -14-

array of sizes and/or configurations, so that clinical judgment may be exercised to select
the appropriate implant for a given case. Alternatively, the transannular band may be
provided in an adjustable form or a modular form so that an implant of the desired
configuration can be constructed or modified intraoperatively at the clinical site. In a
three segment embodiment, such as that illustrated in Figures 24 through 27, a central
segment may be provided for positioning within the center of the flow path, or centered
on the coaptive edges of the leaflets. First and second end portions may be connected to
the central portion, for supporting the central portion relative to the tissue anchors. First
and second end portions may be provided in a variety of lengths and curvatures, enabling
construction of a relatively customized modular implant as may be desired for a particular
patient.
          [0086]     For example, FIG, 24 illustrates a transannular band 50 with a central
portion 64 and two gently angled arm portions 70 and 72. The first and second ends 52
and 54 are displaced from the central portion 64 by a height, hi and h2, respectively. In
FIG. 24, hI and h2 are about equal and can range from about 0 mm to about 10 mm.
Preferably hi and h2 will be at least about 2 mm and will often be at least about 4 mm or
 6 mm or more, but generally no more than about 10 mm or 12 mm.
          [00871     FIG. 25 illustrates a transannular band 50 with a central portion 64 and
 two sharply angled arm portions 70 and 72. The first and second ends 52 and 54 are
 displaced from the central portion 64 by a height, hi and h2, respectively. In FIG, 25, hi
 and h2 are about equal and can range from about 8 mm to about 12 mm.                     FIG. 26
 illustrates a transannular band 50 with a central portion 64, a highly angled first arm 70
 and a gently angled second arm 72. The first and second ends 52 and 54 are displaced
 from the central portion 64 by a height, hi and h2, respectively. In FIG. 26, hl is greater
 than h2. hi ranges from about 6 mm to about 10 mm, while h2 ranges from about 2 mm
 to about 6 mm. FIG. 27 illustrates a transannular band 50 with a central portion 64, a
 gently angled first arm 70 and a highly angled second arm 72. The first and second ends
 52 and 54 are displaced from the central portion 64 by a height, hl and h2, respectively.
 FIG. 27, may be a mirror image of FIG. 26.
           10088i     The transannular band 50 can be made of any of a variety of materials
 that are compatible with implantation within a patient's body and which has the requisite
 structural integrity to support the mitral valve leaflets. For example, suitable materials
 include titanium, titanium alloys, stainless steel, stainless steel alloys, nitinol, other metals
                                               -15-

and alloys, ceramics, and polymers such as PTFE, polycarbonate, polypropylene HDPE,
PEEK, PEBAX and the like.
         [0089]    In order to reduce the thrombogenicity of the transannular band 50, the
transannular band 50 can be provided with a smooth surface. In addition, the transannular
band 50 can be coated with a variety of substances to reduce thrombogenicity.            For
example, the transannular band 50 can be coated with a antithrombogenic agent such as
heparin, a polymer such as PTFE, or a polymer conjugated with heparin or another
antithrombogenic agent.
         [0090]    As illustrated in FIGS. 28-31, the transannular band 50 is implanted in
the plane of the mitral valve annulus 28 in a patient suffering from anterior leaflet 26
prolapse caused by the rupture 42 of the chordae tendineae 30 attached to the anterior
leaflet 26. Although a prolapsed anterior leaflet 26 is illustrated, it should be understood
that the method described herein is also applicable for treating other types of prolapse,
such as posterior leaflet prolapse and prolapse caused by elongated leaflets 24 and 26.
The transannular band 50 can be attached to the annulus 28 by a variety of techniques,
such as sutures, anchors, barbs, stapes, self-expanding stents, or other techniques that are
known or are apparent to those of skill in the art.
         [00911    As best illustrated in FIGS. 29 and 31, the transannular band 50 is
oriented in the annulus 28 so that the transannular band 50 is positioned approximately
transversely to the coaptive edge 42 formed by the closure of the mitral valve leaflets 24
and 26. The transannular band 50 can also be positioned over the prolapsed portion of the
anterior leaflet 26 so that the transannular band 50 can directly support the prolapsed
portion of the anterior leaflet 24 and keep the anterior leaflet 24 above the plane of the
mitral valve annulus 28, i.e., elevated in the direction of the ventricle, thereby preventing
or reducing prolapse and mitral regurgitation.
         [00921     FIGS. 28 and 29 illustrate the effect of the transannular band 50 on the
mitral valve 18 during systole. As shown, both the anterior leaflet 24 and the posterior
 leaflet 26 are supported by the transannular band during closure of the mitral valve 18.
 The arcuate transannular band 50 functions to keep both leaflets 24 and 26 above the
plane of the annulus 28 and enables the leaflets 24 and 26 to form a coaptive edge 40.
 Although a single transannular band 50 has been illustrated, in some embodiments,
 multiple transannular bands 50 such as two or three or more can be implanted across the
 annulus 28 to provide additional support to the mitral valve leaflets 24 and 26.
                                             -16-

         [0093]     FIGS. 30 and 31 illustrate the effect of the transannular band 50 on the
mitral valve 18 during diastole. During diastole, the mitral valve 18 opens so that blood
can fill the left ventricle 16 from the left atrium 12. As best illustrated in FIG. 31, the
transannular band 50 obstructs only a small portion of the mitral valve 18 opening, and
therefore, does not cause excessive resistance to blood flow.
         [0094]     FIGS. 32-35 are cross-sectional side views of the mitral valve 18 with
and without the support of the transannular band 50. During systole, the mitral valve 18
closes.    Without the transannular band 50, the anterior leaflet 24 crosses the plane P
defined by the mitral valve annulus 28 and prolapses, which leads to mitral regurgitation,
as shown in FIG. 33. However, by implanting the transannular band 50 in the annulus 28
such that the arcuate transannular band 50 arches towards the left ventricle and the central
portion 64 is displaced from the plane P, the anterior leaflet 24 is prevented from
prolapsing above the plane P thus eliminating or reducing retrograde flow (shown in FIG.
33). The leaflets 24 and 26 rest upon the transannular band 50 and the pressure exerted by
the blood upon the distal portion of the leaflets 24 and 26 form the coaptive edge 40. As
illustrated in FIGS. 34 and 35, the performance of the mitral valve 18 during diastole is
not substantially affected by the transannular band 50.
         [00951     Although the method of implanting and positioning the transannular
band 50 has been illustrated with one embodiment of the transannular band 50, other
embodiments as described above can also be used. For example, FIG. 36 illustrates a
transannular band 50 with a wider, offset coaptive edge support portion 66 that has been
implanted in the mitral valve annulus. As shown, the coaptive edge support 66 is offset
so that it positioned to support the coaptive edge of the mitral valve 18. In addition, the
transannular band 50 can be used in conjunction with other devices and procedures, such
as a separate or integrally attached annular or annuloplasty ring described above.         In
addition, the transannular band 50 can be used in conjunction with the Alfieri procedure,
where the tips of the mitral valve leaflets 24 and 26 are sutured 74 together, as shown in
FIG. 38.
         [0096]     Referring to FIG. 37, there is illustrated a perspective view of a
 transannular band 50 having a transverse projection or support 51 extending in the
 direction of the ventricle. The support 51 has a width W, which may be at least about 3
 mm, and in some embodiments, at least about 5 mn, and in other embodiments at least
 about 1.0 cm. The projection 51 may be utilized without an Alfieri stitch, so that the
                                             -17-

leaflets of the mitral valve close against opposing side walls 53 and 55 of the projection
51. The projection 51 thus helps center the closure of the leaflets, as well as controlling
the width of coaption. In addition, the band 50 is illustrated as convex in the direction of
the ventricle, to accomplish early closure as has been discussed herein.
         [0097]     The transannular band 50 can be implanted via an open surgical
procedure, or alternatively, via a percutaneous procedure using a translumenally
implantable embodiment. In the translumenally implantable embodiment, one or more
transannular bands can be attached to a self-expandable support structure, such as a self
expandable ring or self-expandable stent having a relatively short axial length relative to
its expanded diameter,      The transannular band and the compressed self-expandable
support structure are loaded into a catheter with a retractable outer sheath which is
inserted percutaneously and advanced translumenally into or across the mitral valve. The
retractable outer sheath can be retracted to allow the self-expandable support structure to
expand against the annulus, thereby positioning the one or more transannular bands in
about the plane of the mitral annulus. Each transannular band can be characterized by a
longitudinal axis, and the transannular band is orient in the mitral valve such that the
longitudinal axis of the transannular band in oriented transversely to the coaptive edge of
the mitral valve.
         [0098]      While the foregoing detailed description has set forth several
exemplary embodiments of the apparatus and methods of the present invention, it should
be understood that the above description is illustrative only and is not limiting of the
 disclosed invention. It will be appreciated that the specific dimensions and configurations
 disclosed can differ from those described above, and that the methods described can be
used within any biological conduit within the body.
                                              -18-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        I.      A transvalvular intraannular band, the transvalvular band comprising:
                an elongate and arcuate body having a first end, a first anchoring portion
       located proximate the first end, a second end, a second anchoring portion located
       proximate the second end, and a central portion, the central portion displaced
       transversely from a plane which includes the first end and the second end;
                wherein the first end and the second end are configured to be attached to
       the mitral valve annulus within the plane of the annulus and the central portion is
       configured to support the mitral valve leaflets at a point displaced toward the
       ventricle from the plane.
        2.      The transvalvular band of Claim 1, wherein the central portion is narrower
than both the first anchoring portion and the second anchoring portion.
        3.       The transvalvular band of Claim 1, wherein the central portion comprises
an offset support portion and a first arm portion and a second arm portion, the offset
support portion wider than the first arm portion and second arm portion.
        4.       The transvalvular band of Claim 1, wherein the central portion has a
substantially triangular cross-section.
        5.       A method of treating mitral valve prolapse, the method comprising:
                 implanting in the mitral annulus an intraannular band comprising an
        elongate and arcuate body having a first end, a first anchoring portion located
        proximate the first end, a second end, a second anchoring portion located
        proximate the second end, and a central portion, the central portion displaced out
        of the plane containing the first end and the second end;
                 attaching the first anchoring portion to one portion of the mitral annulus;
        and
                 attaching the second anchoring portion to another portion of the mitral
        annulus such that the intraannular band extends transversely across a coaptive
        edge formed by the closure of the mitral valve leaflets and the central portion is
        displaced towards the left ventricle relative to the first anchoring portion and the
        second anchoring portion.
        6.       A method of treating a mitral valve, comprising the steps of:
                  providing a transannular band having a convex side and a projection
        extending from the convex side;
                                              -19-

                 securing the band to a valve annulus such that the convex side extends
        across the plane of the annulus in the direction of the ventricle, and the projection
        extends in a downstream blood flow direction, so that a first leaflet closes against
        a first side of the projection and a second leaflet closes against a second side of the
        projection.
        7.       A method of treating a mitral valve as in Claim 6, wherein the securing
step comprises securing a first end and a second end of the band within the plane of the
annulus such that the convex side extends from the plane in the direction of the ventricle
to cause early leaflet closure.
        8.       A method of treating a mitral valve as in Claim 6, further comprising the
step of securing a portion of the first and second leaflets to the projection.
        9.       A method of moving mitral valve leaflet coaption to an earlier point in the
cardiac cycle, comprising the steps of:
                 providing an intraannular, transvalvular band dimensioned for attachment
        within the plane of the mitral valve annulus;
                  attaching the band within the plane of the annulus such that a portion of the
        band extends into the ventricular side of the plane to support the leaflets and
        elevate the position of the coaptive edges in the direction of the ventricle during
        valve closure.
         10.      A method of moving mitral valve leaflet coaption as in Claim 9, wherein
the elevate the position step comprises elevating the position of the coaptive edges by at
least about 4mm.
         1L        A method of moving mitral valve leaflet coaption as in Claim 9, wherein
the elevate the position step comprises elevating the position of the coaptive edges by an
amount within the range of from about 6mm to about 12mm.
                                               -20-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
