                                         ABSTRACT
The invention provides processes of preparing a peptide including a GCC agonist sequence
selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249 described herein.

                   PROCESS OF PREPARING GUANYLATE
                                 CYCLASE C AGONISTS
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
[01]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>,
which is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2012223337, which claims
priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/447,891 filed on March 1, 2011. The above
documents are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[02]      The present invention relates to processes of preparing guanylate cyclase C peptide
agonists useful for the treatment and prevention of various diseases and disorders.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[03]      Guanylate cyclase C is a transmembrane form of guanylate cyclase that is expressed on
various cells, including gastrointestinal epithelial cells (reviewed in Vaandrager 2002 Mol. Cell.
Biochem. 230:73-83). It was originally discovered as the intestinal receptor for the heat-stable
toxin (ST) peptides secreted by enteric bacteria and which cause diarrhea. The ST peptides
share a similar primary amino acid structure with two peptides isolated from intestinal mucosa
and urine, guanylin and uroguanylin (Currie, et al., Proc.Nat 'l A cad. Sci. USA 89:947-951
(1992); Hamra, et al., Proc. Nat'l Acad. Sci. USA 90:10464-10468 (1993); Forte, L., Reg. Pept.
81:25-39 (1999); Schulz, et al., Cell 63:941-948 (1990); Guba, et al., Gastroenterology
111:1558-1568 (1996); Joo, et al., Am. J Physiol. 274:G633-G644 (1998)).
[04]      In the intestines, guanylin and uroguanylin act as regulators of fluid and electrolyte
balance. In response to high oral salt intake, these peptides are released into the intestinal
lumen where they bind to guanylate cyclase C localized on the luminal membrane of
enterocytes (simple columnar epithelial cells of the small intestines and colon). The binding of
the guanylin peptides to guanylate cyclase C induces electrolyte and water excretion into the
intestinal lumen via a complex intracellular signaling cascade that is initiated by an increase in
cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP).
                                                   1

 [05]       The cGMP-mediated signaling that is initiated by the guanylin peptides is critical for the
 normal functioning of the gut. Any abnormality in this process could lead to gastrointestinal
 disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and inflammatory bowel diseases.
 Inflammatory bowel disease is a general name given to a group of disorders that cause the
 intestines to become inflamed, characterized by red and swollen tissue. Examples include
 ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Crohn's disease is a serious inflammatory disease that
 predominantly affects the ileum and colon, but can also occur in other sections of the
 gastrointestinal tract. Ulcerative colitis is exclusively an inflammatory disease of the colon, the
 large intestine. Unlike Crohn's disease, in which all layers of the intestine are involved, and in
which there can be normal healthy bowel in between patches of diseased bowel, ulcerative colitis
affects only the innermost lining (mucosa) of the colon in a continuous manner. Depending on
which portion of the gastrointestinal tract is involved, Crohn's disease may be referred to as
 ileitis, regional enteritis, colitis, etc. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis differ from spastic
colon or irritable bowel syndrome, which are motility disorders of the gastrointestinal tract.
Gastrointestinal inflammation can be a chronic condition. It is estimated that as many as
 1,000,000 Americans are afflicted with inflammatory bowel disease, with male and female
patients appearing to be equally affected. Most cases are diagnosed before age 30, but the
disease can occur in the sixth, seventh, and later decades of life.
[06]        IBS and chronic idiopathic constipation are pathological conditions that can cause a
great deal of intestinal discomfort and distress but unlike the inflammatory bowel diseases, IBS
does not cause the serious inflammation or changes in bowel tissue and it is not thought to
increase the risk of colorectal cancer. In the past, inflammatory bowel disease, celiac disease,
and IBS were regarded as completely separate disorders. Now, with the description of
inflammation, albeit low-grade, in IBS, and of symptom overlap between IBS and celiac disease,
this contention has come under question. Acute bacterial gastroenteritis is the strongest risk
factor identified to date for the subsequent development of postinfective irritable bowel
syndrome. Clinical risk factors include prolonged acute illness and the absence of vomiting. A
genetically determined susceptibility to inflammatory stimuli may also be a risk factor for
irritable bowel syndrome. The underlying pathophysiology indicates increased intestinal
permeability and low-grade inflammation, as well as altered motility and visceral sensitivity.
                                                       2

 Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) is a key modulator of gut function and is known to play
 a major role in pathophysiology of IBS. The activity of 5-HT is regulated by cGMP.
 [07]      While the precise causes of IBS and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are not known,
a disruption in the process of continual renewal of the gastrointestinal mucosa may contribute to
disease pathology in IBD and aggravate IBS. The renewal process of the gastrointestinal lining
 is an efficient and dynamic process involving the continual proliferation and replenishment of
unwanted damaged cells. Proliferation rates of cells lining the gastrointestinal mucosa are very
high, second only to the hematopoietic system. Gastrointestinal homeostasis depends on both
the proliferation and programmed cellular death (apoptosis) of epithelial cells lining the gut
mucosa. Cells are continually lost from the villus into the lumen of the gut and are replenished
at a substantially equal rate by the proliferation of cells in the crypts, followed by their upward
movement to the villus. The rates of cell proliferation and apoptosis in the gut epithelium can be
 increased or decreased in a variety of circumstances, e.g., in response to physiological stimuli
such as aging, inflammatory signals, hormones, peptides, growth factors, chemicals and dietary
habits. In addition, an enhanced proliferation rate is frequently associated with a reduction in
turnover time and an expansion of the proliferative zone. The proliferation index is much higher
in pathological states such as ulcerative colitis and other gastrointestinal disorders. Intestinal
hyperplasia is a major promoter of gastrointestinal inflammation. Apoptosis and cell
proliferation together regulate cell number and determine the proliferation index. Reduced rates
of apoptosis are often associated with abnormal growth, inflammation, and neoplastic
transformation. Thus, both increased proliferation and/or reduced cell death may increase the
proliferation index of intestinal tissue, which may in turn lead to gastrointestinal inflammatory
diseases.
[08]       In addition to a role for uroguanylin and guanylin as modulators of intestinal fluid and
ion secretion, these peptides may also be involved in the continual renewal of gastrointestinal
mucosa by maintaining the balance between proliferation and apoptosis. For example,
uroguanylin and guanylin peptides appear to promote apoptosis by controlling cellular ion flux.
Given the prevalence of inflammatory conditions in Western societies a need exists to improve
the treatment options for inflammatory conditions, particularly of the gastrointestinal tract.

 [09]     Peptide agonists of guanylate cyclase C agonists ("GCC agonists") are described in U.S.
 Patent Nos. 7,041,786, 7,799,897, and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos.
 US2009/0048175, US 2010/0069306, US 2010/0120694, US 2010/0093635, and US
 2010/0221329. However, the solid phase synthesis of peptides for pharmaceutical application
 presents a number of special problems such as an overall low yield (e.g., less than 10%).
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [10]     The present invention provides a process of preparing a peptide, particularly a peptide
comprising the sequence of a peptide agonist of guanylate cyclase C ("GCC"). The GCC agonist
sequence is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249. The GCC agonist
sequence is n amino acid units in length, with the N-terminal unit at position 1 and the C
terminal unit at position n.
[11]      The process of the invention includes solid phase and/or solution phase syntheses of
suitable peptide fragments, subsequent fragment condensation in a solution to form a linear crude
peptide, and optional oxidative cyclization of cysteine amino acid residues of the linear crude
peptide to form the cyclized final product. Particularly, the process includes the following steps:
                 providing a first fragment having a first sequence of amino acid units from
positions through position k of the GCC agonist sequence, wherein is an integer between I and
n-1, k is an integer between 2 and n and is greater than, and the first fragment is protected
except for an amino group of the amino acid unit at positions, or alternatively, a carboxyl group
of the amino acid unit at position k,
                providing a second fragment having a second sequence of amino acid units from
position h through position j-1 of the GCC agonist sequence or having a third sequence of amino
acid units from position k+1 through position m of the GCC agonist sequence, wherein h is an
integer between I and n-2 and is smaller than, m is an integer between k+2 and n, and the
second fragment is protected except for a carboxyl group of the amino acid unit at positionj-1 or
an amino group of the amino acid unit at position k+1, and
                                                  4

                coupling the first and the second fragments via a solution-phase synthesis to yield
a protected peptide having a sequence of amino acid units from position h through position k of
the GCC agonist sequence or a protected peptide having a sequence of amino acid units from
position j through position m of the GCC agonist sequence.
 [12]    The process of the invention may include one or more of the features described in the
following embodiments.
 [13]     In one embodiment, the GCC agonist sequence is selected from the group consisting of
SEQ ID NOs: 1, 8, 9, 55, 56, 58, and 59.
[14]      In one embodiment, the GCC agonist sequence is SEQ ID NO: I or 9. In one
embodiment, h is 1,j is 7, and k is 16. More specifically, the first fragment has a sequence of
amino acid units from position 7 through position 16 of SEQ ID NO: I or 9 and the second
fragment has a sequence of amino acid units from position I through position 6 of SEQ ID NO: 1
or 9. In another embodiment, h is 7,j is 15, and k is 16. More specifically, the first fragment has
a sequence of amino acid units from position 15 through position 16 of SEQ ID NO: I or 9, the
second fragment has a sequence of amino acid units from position 7 through position 14 of SEQ
ID NO: I or 9, and the protected peptide produced via coupling the first and second fragments
has a sequence of amino acid units from position 7 through position 16 of SEQ ID NO: I or 9.
In one embodiment, the process of the invention further includes deprotecting an amino group of
the amino acid unit at position 7 of the protected peptide having the sequence of amino acid units
from position 7 through position 16 of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 9 to yield a position-7 reactive peptide.
In one embodiment, the process of the invention further includes providing a third fragment
having a sequence of amino acid units from position I through position 6 of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 9,
wherein the third fragment is protected except for a carboxyl group of the amino acid at position
6. In one embodiment, the process further includes coupling the third fragment and the position
7 reactive peptide via a solution-phase synthesis to yield a protected linear peptide having a
sequence of amino acid units from position I through position 16 of SEQ ID NO: I or 9. In one
embodiment, the process further includes deprotecting the protected linear peptide to yield a
deprotected linear peptide. In one embodiment, the process further comprises oxidizing the
                                                  5

 deprotected linear peptide to yield the peptide having the GCC agonist sequence of SEQ ID
 NOs: I or 9.
 [15]     In one embodiment, each of the first and second fragments is not more than 10 amino
 acid units in length (e.g., 2-10 amino acid units in length, 3-9 amino acid units in length, or 4-8
 amino acid units in length).
 [16]     In one embodiment, the second fragment has the second sequence of amino acid units
 from position h through position j-I of the GCC agonist sequence and either one or both of the
 amino acid unit of the second fragment at positionj-1 and the amino acid unit of the first
 fragment at position k is selected from the group consisting of glycine, proline, leucine, alanine,
and arginine. In one embodiment, at least one of the amino acid units at positionsj-1 and k is
either glycine or proline.
 [17]     In one embodiment, the second fragment has the third sequence of amino acid units
from position k+I through position m of the GCC agonist sequence and either one or both of the
amino acid unit of the third fragment at position m and the amino acid unit of the first fragment
at position k is selected from the group consisting of glycine, proline, leucine, alanine, and
arginine. In one embodiment, at least one of the amino acid units at positions m and k is either
glycine or proline.
[18]      In one embodiment, k is n. In one embodiment, the second fragment has the second
sequence of amino acid units from position h through position j-1 of the GCC agonist sequence,
and the amino acid unit at positionsj-1 is selected from the group consisting of glycine, proline,
leucine, alanine, and arginine. In one embodiment, the amino acid unit at position j-1 is either
glycine or proline. In one embodiment, the process of the invention further comprises
deprotecting an amino group of the amino acid unit at position h of the protected peptide having
a sequence of amino acid units from position h through position k of the GCC agonist sequence
to yield a position-h reactive peptide. In one embodiment, the process further comprises
providing a fourth fragment having a sequence of amino acid units from position 1 through
position h-I of the GCC agonist sequence, wherein the fourth fragment is protected except for a
carboxyl group of the amino acid unit at position h-l. In one embodiment, the fourth fragment is
not more than 10 amino acid units in length (e.g., 2-10 amino acid units in length, 3-9 amino acid
                                                   6

 units in length, or 4-8 amino acid units in length). In one embodiment, the process further
 includes coupling the fourth fragment and the position-h reactive peptide via a solution-phase
 synthesis to yield a protected linear peptide having a sequence of amino acid units from position
 I through position n of the GCC agonist sequence. In one embodiment, the process further
 comprises deprotecting the protected linear peptide to yield a deprotected linear peptide having a
 sequence of amino acid units from position I through position n of the GCC agonist sequence. In
one embodiment, the process of the invention further comprises oxidizing the deprotected linear
peptide to yield the peptide comprising the GCC agonist sequence selected from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249.
 [19]      In one embodiment, at least one of the fragments of the peptide of interest (e.g., the first,
second, third, and/or fourth fragments) is provided via a solid-phase peptide synthesis. In one
embodiment, the solid-phase peptide synthesis is a Fmoc solid-phase synthesis. In one
embodiment, the Fmoc solid-phase synthesis is performed on 2-chlorotrityl resin, such as those
having 1% DVB and a substitution rate ranging from 0.3 mmol/g to 1.2 mmol/g (e.g., 0.9-1.1
m mol/g).
[20]      The methods of this invention unexpectedly produce GCC agonist peptides of high
purities (e.g., >96%) at high yields (e.g., >14%) compared to conventional step-by-step solid
phase peptide synthesis (SPPS), where the overall yield of the peptides having a 96% purity level
is approximately 5% . The fragment condensation process (i.e., hybrid solution- and solid-phase
process) of this invention also requires much less time for synthesizing GCC peptides than
conventional SPPS. In addition to the cost effectiveness afforded by the increased yields and
reduced time, the process of this invention is also readily scalable for commercial production.
[21]      In another aspect, the invention features the peptides, e.g., GCC agonist peptides,
prepared by the methods described herein.
[22]      In still another aspect, the invention also provides a process of purifying the peptide
comprising the GCC agonist sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1
249. The process comprises adsorbing the peptide onto a polymeric adsorbent column,
optionally rinsing the peptide with deionized water, eluting the optionally rinsed peptide off the
polymeric adsorbent column with a solvent mixture (e.g., an alcohol aqueous solution) to form a
                                                    7

peptide solution, removing part or all of the solvent mixture (e.g., water and the alcohol) from
the peptide solution to precipitate the peptide, and optionally adding an ether to the dewatered
peptide to facilitate precipitation of the peptide.
[23]      In one embodiment, the peptide is precipitated by concentrating the peptide solution by
removing water and the alcohol under vacuum without the need of adding an ether. In another
embodiment, an ether is added to facilitate the precipitation, e.g., by hastening the precipitation
process.
[24]      In one embodiment, rinsing the peptide after adsorption onto a polymeric adsorbent
column is not needed when, e.g., the peptide adsorbed is substantially free of water-soluble salts
(e.g., phosphates or acetates). In this context "substantially" free of water-soluble salts means
that the salt content of the peptide is preferably less than 5%, less than 4.5%, less than 4.25%,
less than 4%, less than 3.5%, less than 3%, less than 2.5%, less than 2%, less than 1.5%, less
than 1%, less than 0.5%, less than 0.25%, or less than 0.1%, of the total weight of the peptide.
[25]      In one embodiment, the polymeric adsorbent column comprises a polystyrene resin. In
particular, the resin is selected so that the purified peptide eluted or desorbed is not less than 80%
of the peptide amount adsorbed on the resin, e.g., not less than 85%, not less than 90%, or not
less than 95%. In one embodiment, the resin is formed of crosslinked polystyrene with an
average pore diameter greater than 5 nm, e.g., about 6-8 nm, 10-15 nm, 15-20 nm, or 25-30 nm.
[26]      In one embodiment, the solvent mixture used for eluting the peptide comprises water,
e.g., a mixture of water and one or more second solvents which can form azeotrope with water
such as ethanol, isopropanol, tert-butanol, 2-butanol, I-chloro-2-propanol, 1-methoxy-2
propanol, 2-methoxy-ethanol, 2-methyl-2-propanol, acetic acid, methyl acetate, and propyl
acetate. The one or more second solvents can be Class 3 solvents (or low-toxicity solvents) as
defined in the ICH guideline. In another embodiment, the solvent mixture used for eluting
comprises ether, such as a mixture of ethanol/ether or isopropanol/ether
[27]      In one embodiment, the alcohol aqueous solution comprises isopropanol, propanol, tert
butanol, 2-butanol, or ethanol.
[28]      In one embodiment, the ether comprises diethyl ether or MTBE.
                                                     8

  [29]     In one embodiment, the process further includes salt exchanging the peptide by washing
 the peptide with an aqueous solution comprising an ammonium salt (e.g., ammonium acetate),
 acetic acid, and/or an acetate salt (e.g., sodium acetate) before the purification. In one
 embodiment, if the process includes the salt exchanging step, the process also includes rinsing
 the peptide with deionized water after adsorption on the polymeric resin column to desalt the
 peptide.
 [30]      In one embodiment, the process further includes lyophilizing the peptide after the salt
 exchanging step before the purification.
 [3 1]     In one embodiment, the process further includes drying the precipitated peptide after
 adding the ether, e.g., under reduced pressure.
 [32]      In one embodiment, the purified peptide is selected from the group consisting of SEQ
 ID NOs: 1, 8, 9, and 56. Preferably, the purified peptide is SEQ ID NO: I or 9.
 [33]     The purification methods of this invention unexpectedly produce GCC agonist peptides
of high purities (e.g., >96%) and high bulk and/or tap densities (e.g., > 0.3 g/mL) compared to
conventional purification methods such as lyophilization, where the bulk and/or tap densities of
the purified are at approximately 10 times lower than those of the peptides purified by the
methods of this invention. The purification process of this invention also requires much less
time than conventional lyophilization, which can potentially lead to reductions in topoisomer
content, deamidation degradation products, and other impurities. The purification process of this
invention is also readily scalable for commercial production compared to conventional
lyophilization.
[34]      In yet another aspect, the invention features the peptides, e.g., GCC agonist peptides,
purified by the process described herein. The purified peptides may have one or more of the
following features.
[35]      In one embodiment, the purified peptide has a bulk density of no less than 0.05 g/mL, no
less than 0.1 g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL, or no
less than 0.5 g/mL. For example, the purified peptide has a bulk density ranging between 0.05
g/mL and 2 g/mL.
                                                   9

 [36]     In one embodiment, the purified peptide has a tap density of no less than 0.08 g/mL, no
 less than 0.1 g/mL, no less than 0. 15 g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less
than 0.4 g/mL, no less than 0.5 g/mL, or no less than 0.6 g/mL. For example, the purified
peptide has a tap density ranging between 0.08 g/mL and 2 g/mL.
 [37]     In one embodiment, the purified peptide has a chromatographic purity of no less than
96%, no less than 97%, or no less than 98%. For example, the GCC agonist peptide has
chromatographic impurity content of no greater than 4%, no greater than 3.5%, no greater than
3%, no greater than 2.5%, no greater than 2%, no greater than 1.5%, or no greater than 1%. The
chromatographic impurity content is determined as total area percentages of impurities by
HPLC. The chromatographic impurity content includes topoisomer content. The impurities do
not include any pharmaceutically acceptable excipient used for drug formulation.
[38]      In one embodiment, the purified peptide is substantially free of contaminants resulted
from the peptide preparation process such as organic solvents used in the process, e.g.,
ammonium, acetonitrile, acetamide, alcohol (e.g., methanol, ethanol, or isopropanol), TFA, ether
or other contaminants. In this context "substantially" free of contaminants means that the
contaminant content of the peptide at the end of the purification process is preferably less than
0.5%, less than 0.3%, less than 0.25%, less than 0.1%, less than 0.05%, less than 0.04%, less
than 0.03%, less than 0.02%, less than 0.0 1%, less than 0.005%, less than 0.003%, or less than
0.001% of the total weight of the peptide. For example, the purified peptide contains < 0.01%
acetamide, <0.3% ammonium ion, <0.0 1% acetonitrile, and/or < 0.1% TFA. The content of
contaminants can be determined by conventional methods such as gas chromatography.
Preferably, the residual solvents in the purified peptide of the invention are less than the limits
set in the ICH guidelines, e.g., IMPURITIES: GUIDELINE FOR RESIDUAL SOLVENTS
Q3C(R5) (available at
http://www.ich.org/fileadmin/PublicWebSite/ICH_Products/Guidelines/Quality/Q3C/Step4/Q
3C_R5_ Step4.pdf). For example, the purified peptide contains <410 ppm acetonitrile (e.g., :40
ppm or < 20 ppm), <5000 ppm ethanol (e.g., <140 ppm), <5000 ppm isopropanol, < 5000 ppm
ethyl acetate (e.g., <20 ppm), <3000 ppm methanol (e.g., <250 ppm), <5000 ppm MTBE (e.g.,
<20 ppm), < 290 ppm hexane, and/or < 5000 ppm heptane or pentane.
                                                  10

[39]       In one embodiment, the purified peptide is substantially free of topoisomers. In this
context "substantially" free of topoisomers means that the topoisomer content of the peptide at
the end of the purification process is preferably less than 2%, less than 1.5%, less than 1.25%,
less than 1%, less than 0.9%, less than 0.8%, less than 0.7%, less than 0.6%, less than 0.5%,
less than 0.4%, less than 0.3%, less than 0.2%, or less than 0.1%, of the total weight of the
peptide.
[40]       In one embodiment, the purified peptide is substantially free of water. In this context
"substantially" free of water means that the water content of the peptide at the end of the
purification process is preferably less than 7%, less than 6%, less than 5%, less than 4.5%, less
than 4 .2 5%, less than 4%, less than 3 .5%, less than 3 %, less than 2 .5%, less than 2 %, less than
1.5%, less than 1%, less than 0.5%, less than 0. 2 5%, or less than 0.1%, of the total weight of the
peptide.
[41]       In one embodiment, the purified peptide includes the GCC agonist sequence of SEQ
ID NO: 1.
[42]       In one embodiment, the purified peptide includes the GCC agonist sequence of SEQ
ID NO: 9.
[43]       The invention also relates to a formulation (e.g., an oral formulation) containing the
peptides prepared and/or purified by the methods described herein and in particular, a low dose
formulation containing 0.05-10 mg (e.g., 0.1 mg, 0.3 mg or 0.5 mg) of the purified peptides.
The low-dose formulation can further have one or more additional features as described in
PCT/US2011/051805 and can be prepared by the methods disclosed therein, such as dry
blending.
[43a]    A definition of the specific embodiment of the invention claimed herein follows.
[43b]    In a broad format, the invention provides a purified peptide comprising a GCC agonist
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the peptide has a bulk density of no less than 0.1 g/mL, no
less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL or no less than 0.5 g/mL.
[43c]    The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation of
the term is required.
                                                   11

 [43d]     Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
 disclosures constitute common general knowledge.
 [43e] Other embodiments of the invention are described herein are defined in the following
 paragraphs:
 1.       A process of preparing a peptide comprising a GCC agonist sequence selected from the
 group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249, wherein the GCC agonist sequence is n amino acid
 units in length, with the N-terminal unit at position 1 and the C-terminal unit at position n, the
 process comprising:
          providing a first fragment having a first sequence of amino acid units from positions
 through position k of the GCC agonist sequence, wherein is an integer between 1 and n-i, k is
 an integer between 2 and n and is greater than, and the first fragment is protected except for an
 amino group of the amino acid unit at positions, or alternatively, a carboxyl group of the amino
 acid unit at position k,
          providing a second fragment having a second sequence of amino acid units from
 position h through positionj-1 of the GCC agonist sequence or having a third sequence of
 amino acid units from position k+1 through position m of the GCC agonist sequence, wherein h
 is an integer between 1 and n-2 and is smaller than, m is an integer between k+2 and n, and
 the second fragment is protected except for a carboxyl group of the amino acid unit at position
j- 1 or an amino group of the amino acid unit at position k+1, and
          coupling the first and the second fragments via a solution-phase synthesis to yield a
 protected peptide having a sequence of amino acid units from position h through position k of
 the GCC agonist sequence or a protected peptide having a sequence of amino acid units from
 positions through position m of the GCC agonist sequence.
 2.       The process of paragraph 1, wherein the GCC agonist sequence is selected from the
 group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 8, 9, 55, 56, 58, and 59.
 3.       The process of paragraph 1, wherein the GCC agonist sequence is selected from the
 group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 9.
 4.       The process of paragraph 3, wherein at least one of the first and second fragments is
 provided via a solid-phase peptide synthesis.
 5.       The process of paragraph 4, wherein the solid-phase peptide synthesis is a Fmoc solid
 phase synthesis.
                                                  11a

6.      The process of paragraph 5, wherein the Fmoc solid-phase synthesis is performed on 2
chlorotrityl resin.
7.      The process of paragraph 3, wherein h is 1, j is 7, and k is 16.
8.      The process of paragraph 3, wherein h is 7,j is 15, and k is 16.
9.      The process of paragraph 8, further comprising deprotecting an amino group of the
amino acid unit at position 7 of the protected peptide having the sequence of amino acid units
from position 7 through position 16 of the GCC agonist sequence to yield a position-7 reactive
peptide.
10.     The process of paragraph 9, further comprising providing a third fragment having a
sequence of amino acid units from position 1 through position 6 of the GCC agonist sequence,
wherein the third fragment is protected except for a carboxyl group of the amino acid at
position 6.
11.     The process of paragraph 10, wherein the third fragment is provided via a solid-phase
peptide synthesis.
12.     The process of paragraph 11, wherein the solid-phase peptide synthesis is Fmoc solid
phase synthesis.
13.     The process of paragraph 10, further comprising coupling the third fragment and the
position-7 reactive peptide via a solution-phase synthesis to yield a protected linear peptide
having a sequence of amino acid units from position 1 through position 16 of the GCC agonist
sequence.
14.     The process of paragraph 13, further comprising deprotecting the protected linear
peptide to yield a deprotected linear peptide.
15.     The process of paragraph 14, further comprising oxidizing the deprotected linear peptide
to yield the peptide comprising the GCC agonist sequence selected from the group consisting of
SEQ ID NOs: l and 9.
16.     The process of paragraph 1, wherein at least one of the first and second fragments is
provided via a solid-phase peptide synthesis.
17.     The process of paragraph 16, wherein the solid-phase peptide synthesis is Fmoc solid
phase synthesis.
                                                1lb

18.     The process of paragraph 1, wherein each of the first and second fragments is not more
than 10 amino acid units in length.
19.     The process of paragraph 18, wherein the second fragment has the second sequence of
amino acid units from position h through positionj-1 of the GCC agonist sequence and either
one or both of the amino acid unit of the second fragment at positionj-1 and the amino acid unit
of the first fragment at position k is selected from the group consisting of glycine, proline,
leucine, alanine, and arginine.
20.     The process of paragraph 18, wherein the second fragment has the second sequence of
amino acid units from position h through positionj-1 of the GCC agonist sequence and either
one or both of the amino acid unit of the second fragment at positionj-1 and the amino acid unit
of the first fragment at position k is selected from the group consisting of glycine and proline.
21.     The process of paragraph 18, wherein the second fragment has the third sequence of
amino acid units from position k+1 through position m of the GCC agonist sequence and either
one or both of the amino acid unit of the second fragment at position m and the amino acid unit
of the first fragment at position k is selected from the group consisting of glycine, proline,
leucine, alanine, and arginine.
22.     The process of paragraph 18, wherein the second fragment has the third sequence of
amino acid units from position k+1 through position m of the GCC agonist sequence and either
one or both of the amino acid unit of the second fragment at position m and the amino acid unit
of the first fragment at position k is selected from the group consisting of glycine and proline.
23.     The process of paragraph 1, wherein k is n, the second fragment has the second
sequence of amino acid units from position h through positionj-1 of the GCC agonist sequence,
and the amino acid unit at positions j-1 is selected from the group consisting of glycine, proline,
leucine, alanine, and arginine.
24.     The process of paragraph 23, further comprising deprotecting an amino group of the
amino acid unit at position h of the protected peptide having a sequence of amino acid units
from position h through position k of the GCC agonist sequence to yield a position-h reactive
peptide.
25.     The process of paragraph 24, further comprising providing a fourth fragment having a
sequence of amino acid units from position 1 through position h-I of the GCC agonist
sequence, wherein the fourth fragment is protected except for a carboxyl group of the amino
acid unit at position h-1.
                                                  lc

26.     The process of paragraph 25, wherein the fourth fragment is provided via a solid-phase
peptide synthesis.
27.      The process of paragraph 26, wherein the solid-phase peptide synthesis is Fmoc solid
phase synthesis.
28.     The process of paragraph 25, wherein the fourth fragment is not more than 10 amino
acid units in length.
29.     The process of paragraph 25, further comprising coupling the fourth fragment and the
position-h reactive peptide via a solution-phase synthesis to yield a protected linear peptide
having a sequence of amino acid units from position 1 through position n of the GCC agonist
sequence.
30.     The process of paragraph 29, further comprising deprotecting the protected linear
peptide to yield a deprotected linear peptide having a sequence of amino acid units from
position 1 through position n of the GCC agonist sequence.
31.     The process of paragraph 30, further comprising oxidizing the deprotected linear peptide
to yield the peptide comprising the GCC agonist sequence selected from the group consisting of
SEQ ID NOs: 1-249.
32.     The process of paragraph 31, further comprising purifying the peptide comprising the
GCC agonist sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249, wherein the
purification comprises adsorbing the peptide onto a polymeric adsorbent column, optionally
rinsing the peptide with deionized water, eluting the optionally rinsed peptide off the polymeric
adsorbent column with an alcohol aqueous solution to form a peptide solution, removing water
and the alcohol from the peptide solution to precipitate the peptide, and optionally adding an
ether to the dewatered peptide to facilitate precipitation of the peptide.
33.     The process of paragraph 32, wherein the alcohol aqueous solution comprises
isopropanol.
34.     The process of paragraph 32, wherein the ether comprises diethyl ether.
35.     The process of paragraph 32, further comprising salt exchanging the peptide by washing
the peptide with an aqueous solution comprising an ammonium salt before the purification.
36.     The process of paragraph 35, further comprising, lyophilizing the peptide after the salt
exchanging step before the purification.
                                                 1ld

37.     A process of purifying the peptide comprising the GCC agonist sequence selected from
the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249, the process comprising adsorbing the peptide onto
a polymeric adsorbent column, desalting the peptide, eluting the desalted peptide off the
polymeric adsorbent column with an alcohol aqueous solution to form a peptide solution,
removing water from the peptide solution, and adding an ether to the dewatered peptide to
precipitate the peptide.
38.     The process of paragraph 37, wherein the alcohol aqueous solution comprises
isopropanol.
39.     The process of paragraph 37, wherein the ether comprises diethyl ether.
40.     The process of paragraph 37, further comprising salt exchanging the peptide by washing
the peptide with an aqueous solution comprising an ammonium salt before the purification.
41.     The process of paragraph 40, further comprising, lyophilizing the peptide after the salt
exchanging step before the purification.
42.     A purified peptide comprising the GCC agonist sequence selected from the group
consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-249, wherein the peptide has a bulk density of no less than 0.1
g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL, or no less than 0.5
g/mL.
43.     A purified peptide, wherein the peptide is purified by the process of any of
paragraphs 37-41.
44.     The purified peptide of paragraph 42, wherein the peptide is purified by the process of
any of paragraphs 37-41.
45.     The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-44, wherein the peptide has a tap density
of no less than 0.1 g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL,
no less than 0.5 g/mL, or no less than 0.6 g/mL.
46.     The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-45, wherein the peptide has a
chromatographic purity of no less than 95%, no less than 97%, or no less than 98%.
47.     The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-46, wherein peptide is substantially free of
water.
48.     The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-47, wherein peptide is substantially free of
impurities selected from acetonitrile, acetamide, alcohols, ammonium, and TFA.
                                               1le

49.      The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-48, wherein the peptide is substantially
free of topoisomers.
50.      The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-49, wherein the peptide comprises the
GCC agonist sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1.
51.      The purified peptide of any of paragraphs 42-49, wherein the peptide comprises the
GCC agonist sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9.
[44]    Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from and are
encompassed by the following detailed description and claims.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[45]     Figure 1 is a graph showing particle size distribution by sieving analysis for lyophilized
plecanatide and precipitated plecanatide.
                                   [Text continues on page 12]
                                                 11f

[46]     Figure 2 is an optical microscopic image of lyophilized plecanatide.
[47]     Figure 3 is an optical microscopic image of precipitated plecanatide.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[48]     The invention provides processes of preparing peptides, e.g., peptide GCC agonists, in
particular a hybrid solution- and solid-phase process. The process of the invention includes
providing two or more fragments of a peptide of interest via solid-phase and/or solution-phase
syntheses and coupling them via a solution-phase synthesis to obtain the target peptide. The
process may further include, if needed, oxidative cyclization of cysteine amino acid residues of a
linear peptide formed by the fragment coupling to produce a cyclized peptide.
[49]     The fragments described above can'be prepared by standard solution phase peptide
synthesis or solid phase peptide synthesis techniques in which a peptide linkage occurs through
the direct condensation of the amino group (i.e., NH 2) of a first amino acid with the carboxy
group (i.e., COOH) of a second amino acid with the elimination of a water molecule. In one
embodiment, at least one of the fragments is prepared by solid phase peptide synthesis.
[50]      Peptide bond synthesis by direct condensation, as formulated above, requires
suppression of the reactive character of the amino group of the first and of the carboxyl group of
the second amino acid. The masking substituents (i.e., protecting groups) must permit their
ready removal, without inducing breakdown of the labile peptide molecule. The term "protected
peptide" or "protected peptide fragment" refers to a peptide or peptide fragment, in which all
reactive groups on its constituting amino acids, are masked by protecting groups, unless
otherwise specified. The term "deprotected peptide" or "deprotected peptide fragment" refers to
a peptide or peptide fragment, in which all reactive groups on its constituting amino acids, are
free from being masked by protecting groups, unless otherwise specified. The term "reactive
groups" refers to the groups forming the peptide bond and those interfering with the peptide
bond formation, such as amino, carboxyl, hydroxyl, and thiol (as in cysteine) groups. Examples
of protecting groups for amino include and are not limited to 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl
(Fmoc), tert-butoxycarbonyl (Boc), benzoyl (Bz), acetyl (Ac), and benzyl (Bn). Examples of
protecting groups for carboxyl include trityl (triphenylImethyl, Trt) and 0-tert-butyl (OtBu).
                                                  12

Examples of protecting groups for thiol include acetamidomethyl (Acm), tert-butyl (tBu), 3
nitro-2-pyridine sulfenyl (NPYS), 2-pyridine-sulfenyl (Pyr), and trityl (Trt). Additional
examples of protecting groups are described in Greene, T.W., Wuts, P.G. M., Protective Groups
in OrganicSynthesis, 3 rd edition, John Wiley & Sons: New York, 1999, whose context is
incorporated by reference herein.
[51]     In a preferred embodiment, the methods of the invention are used for preparing SP-304
(plecanatide). In particular, three peptide fragments, A, B and C are prepared and then a linear
peptide sequence is assembled by the condensation of fragment A, B and C as follows: preparing
fragment A, Boc-Asn(Trt)-Asp(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Cys(Trt)-Glu(OtBu)-Leu-OH,           by solid phase
from 2-chloro-trityl chloride resin; preparing fragment B, Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala
Cys(Trt)-Thr(tBu)-Gly-OH, by solid phase from 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin; preparing fragment
C, Cys(Acm)-Leu-OtBu, by solution phase synthesis, coupling fragments B and C in solution
phase to yield fragment B-C, and coupling fragments A and B-C to yield linear peptide A-B-C.
 [52]    The side-chain-protected Fragments A (BocAA l-60H) and B (FmocAA7-140H) can be
prepared by Fmoc SPPS using the super acid-sensitive 2-chlorotrityl chloride (2-CITrt) resin and
Fmoc-protected amino acid derivatives, as shown in Scheme I below.
                                                  13

                                                                       Scheme 1
                                                                                              DBU,HOBt
                                  Fmoc-Leu-OH                                 0      NHFmoc piperidine
                         -        DICA                                      -                 in DMF                         0     NH2
                                  DMF/DCM                                                     i M
                        -CI                             )-K\9 C                 CI                     0                       CI
 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin (2-CITrt)             Fmoc-Leu-2-CITrt resin                                H-Leu-2-CITrt resin
                                                                0 OtBu              St
                                                                                O~     r    0
                                                                    H     0            H
                                     BocHNO N                       N,        N        N,              OH
                                  TrtHN                 H                     H               H
                                                                 00
                                                                 0      OtBu              0   OtBu
                  Boc-Asn(Trt)-Asp(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Cys(Trt)-Glu(OtBu)-Leu-OH,(Fragment A or BocAA1 -60H)
                                                                                             DBU,HOBt
                               Fmoc-Gly-OH                                 0       NHFmoc piperidine                              NH
                               IDEA in                       / aHin                            DMF0                                H
               -DMF/DCM                           -%                9_                                  %9
                   C-Cl                                                C-C         H                                  C-          H
                           ClI                                      c-       Cl
                                                                                                                            Cl
                                                                                                                            C
2-chlorotrityl chloride resin (2-CITrt) Fmoc-Gly-2-CITrt resin                                                H-Gly-2-CITrt resin
                             ____________________________ii)                                                   I)
                                                                           TrtS
   i) Peptide Chain assembly                                        0      H
                                                                           H           0    H          0     H          0
      using Fmoc chemistry                        HO             N         N                N      ,N        N X"N             NHFmoc
   ii) 1%TFA/DCM                                        O         H                 H                H         O
                                                                         OtBu                  TrtHN     0\NHAc
                           Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn(Trt)-VaI-Ala-Cys(Trt)-Thr(tBu)-Gly-OH, (Fragment B or FmocAA7-140H)
[53]        Fragment C (HAA I5-160tBu) can be prepared by the solution phase synthesis and then
be coupled to Fragment B (FmocAA7-140H) in solution phase to give Fragment B-C
(FmocAA7-l6OtBu). The Fmoc protecting group can then be removed from Fragment B-C
(FmocAA7-l6OtBu) to give HAA7-l6OtBu, which is then coupled to Fragment A (BocAAI
60H) to yield side-chain-protected linear SP-304 (BocAAI-l60tBu), as shown in Scheme 2
below.
                                                                            14

                                              Scheme 2
                                              DIEA, HOBt, HBTU
  H-Leu-OtBu.HCI       +   Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-OH        D-             Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OtBu
                                                   DMF               FmocAA15-160tBu
   Piperidine/DCM
                      H-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OtBu DIEA, Cl-HOBt, HBTU FmocAA7-160tBu
                       HAA15-160tBu             FmocAA7-140H,
                                                DMF
 Piperidine/DCM                     DIEA, Cl-HOBt, HBTU                 TIS/EDT/TFA
                    HAA7-160tBu BocAA1-60H,              BocAA1-160tBu        -      HAA1-160H
                                      DMF
       H-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OH
[54]      The side-chain-protected linear SP-304 (BocAAl-l60tBu) can be treated with
trifluoroacetic acid/triisopropylsilane/ethanedithiol (TFA/TIS/EDT) to give the partially
protected SP-304 (HAAI -160H) in which the 2 S-Acm groups (as shown in Scheme 2 above)
are intact. The partially protected linear SP-304 (HAAI-160H) can be oxidized by H2 0 2 ,
followed by simultaneous removal of the S-Acm groups and disulfide formation with iodine to
give crude dicyclic SP-3 04, as shown in Schemes 3 and 4 below.
                                                  15

                                        Scheme 3
   H-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Va-Asn-Va-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gy-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OH
   HAAl -160H          IH 20 2
   H-Asn-Asp-Gi u-Cys-GI u-Leu-Cys(Acm)-VaI-Asn-Vai-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OH
   monocyclzed HAAl-160H
                        S12 !AcOH
 H-Asn-Asp-Glu- ys-Glu-Leu-c ys-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly- ys-Leu-OH
 dicycilzed HAAi-160H
                      SLoad to the polystyrenic absorbent resin cloumnn
                       SElute with Ethanol
H-Asn-Asp-Glu-cj s-Glu-Leu-cys-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys-Leu-OH
dicycilzed HAAl-160H
                                           16

                                              Scheme 4
   H-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OH
   HAA1-160H               H2 0 2
   H-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OH
   monocyclized HAA1-160H
                            12/AcOH
H-Asn-Asp-Glu- ys-Glu-Leu- ys-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-          ys-Leu-OH
dicyclized HAA1-160H
                           Load to the RP-HPLC cloumn
                            Elute with ACN/H 2 0
                             Pool qualified fractions
                             Salt exchange and lyophilization
  H-Asn-Asp-Glu-    y-Glu-Leu-ys-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys-Leu-OH
                               SP 304 drug substance
[55]     The solution of crude dicyclic SP-304 can then be purified and concentrated, as shown
in Scheme 3 above, by loading the solution to a polystyrenic adsorbent resin (e.g., D101 (Anhui
Sanxing (China); crosslinked polystyrene; surface area 500-550 m 2/g; average pore diameter: 9
10 nm; pore volume: 1.18-1.24 ml/g; bulk density: 0.65-0.70 g/ml; specific density: 1.03-1.07
g/ml; moisture: 67-75%; particle size: 0.315-1.25 mm     95%; effective diameter: 0.4-0.7 mm;
uniformity coefficient: <1.6%), DA201C, DA201 H, ADS-8, and ADS-5) column, eluting the
dicyclic SP-304 from the column with an eluent (e.g., a 90% ethanol aqueous solution),
concentrating the collected SP-304 solution under reduced pressure, and precipitating SP-304
                                                   17

with methyl t-butyl ether (MTBE). The precipitate can then be collected by filtration or
centrifugation, dried under high vacuum to give SP-304 in solid form.
[56]        As illustrated in Scheme 4 above, the solution of crude dicyclic SP-304 can also be
purified directly on preparative HPLC C18 column with acetonitrile (ACN), methanol, and/or
water in various buffer system. The crude dicyclic SP-304 can also be purified via other
methods known to a skilled person in the art.
[57]        Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that, in solid phase synthesis,
deprotection, and coupling reactions must go to completion and the side-chain blocking groups
must be stable throughout the synthesis.
[58]        Acetylation of the N-terminal can be accomplished by reacting the final peptide with
acetic anhydride before cleavage from the resin. C-amidation is accomplished using an
appropriate resin such as methylbenzhydrylamine resin using the Boc technology.
[59]        In solution phase synthesis, a wide variety of coupling methods and protecting groups
may be used (See, Gross and Meienhofer, eds., "The Peptides: Analysis, Synthesis, Biology,"
Vol. 1-4 (Academic Press, 1979); Bodansky and Bodansky, "The Practice of Peptide Synthesis,"
2d ed. (Springer Verlag, 1994)). In addition, intermediate purification and linear scale up are
possible. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that solution synthesis requires
consideration of main chain and side chain protecting groups and activation method. In addition,
careful fragment selection is necessary to minimize racemization during fragment condensation.
 For example, racemization is minimized when fragments contain C-terminal Gly or Pro.
 Solubility considerations are also a factor. Solid phase peptide synthesis uses an insoluble
polymer for support during organic synthesis. The polymer-supported peptide chain permits the
 use of simple washing and filtration steps instead of laborious purifications at intermediate steps.
 Solid-phase peptide synthesis may generally be performed according to the method of Merrifield
 et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1963, 85:2149, which involves assembling a linear peptide chain on a
 resin support using protected amino acids. Solid phase peptide synthesis typically utilizes either
 the Boc or Fmoc strategy, both of which are well known in the art.
                                                      18

 [60]     The processes of the present invention can be used to make any peptide-based GCC
agonist known in the art, such as analogs of uroguanylin, guanylin, lymphoguanylin, linaclotide,
 ST peptides, SP-304, and SP-333. Non-limiting examples of such analogs of uroguanylin,
guanylin, lymphoguanylin, linaclotide, SP-304, SP-333, and bacterial ST peptides are described
 in Section 1.1 below. In certain embodiments, the methods are used to prepare a peptide
consisting essentially of an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1-249. In a
preferred embodiment, the peptide thusly made consists essentially of an amino acid sequence
selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1, 8, 9, 55, and 56. The term "consists essentially of' refers to a
peptide that is identical to the reference peptide in its amino acid sequence or to a peptide that
does not differ substantially in terms of either structure or function from the reference peptide. A
peptide differs substantially from the reference peptide if its primary amino acid sequence varies
by more than three amino acids from the reference peptide or if its activation of cellular cGMP
production is reduced by more than 50% compared to the reference peptide. Preferably,
substantially similar peptides differ by no more than two amino acids and not by more than about
25% with respect to activating cGMP production. In preferred embodiments, the GCC agonist
made by the methods of the invention is a peptide comprising at least 12 amino acid residues,
and most preferably comprising between 12 and 26 amino acids.
[61]      In another embodiment, the process of the invention is used for preparing SP-353, which
is a bacterial ST peptide analog. The general strategy for the hybrid synthesis of SP-353
includes solid phase and solution phase syntheses to produce suitable peptide fragments (see
Schemes 5 and 6 below), subsequent segment condensation to form the linear crude peptide (see
Scheme 7 below), and natural oxidative folding to form the cyclized final product (see Scheme 7
below). The same strategy can also be used to produce other ST peptide analogs (such as SP
354, linaclotide, etc.) of similar amino acid sequences shown in Table II.
                                                  19

                                                           Scheme 5
                 Solid phase synthesis of the two side-chain-protected fragments on 2-CITrt resin
                          Fmoc-Pro-OH                                                DBU,HOBt                                  M
                          DIEA in                        IP      O          Fmoc
                                                                            N        piperidine
                                                                                     in DMF
                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                   -O
                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                              N
      Q-i~~-c-ciDMFIDCM
 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin (2-CITrt)       Fmoc-Pro-2-ClTrt resin                                  H-Pro-2-CITrt resin
                                                              0      OtBu
                                            TrtS                                                       O~r
                    TrtHN           H     0O                  0           H             STrt    0           NHTrt
                      BocHN         N         N             N             N            N           N         O
                                              H      0           H                H     0          H           OH
                                                       0rt                     OtBu             STrt
                                                       TrtS0
Boc-Asn'(Trt)-Phe2-Cys3(Trt)-Cys4(Trt)-Glu5(OtBu)-SerG(tBu)-Cys7(Trt)-Cys8(Trt)-Asn9(Trt)-Prolo-OH,(BocAA1-100H)
                             Fmoc-Gly-OH                                              DBU,HOBt
                             DIEA in                                0      NHFmoc piperidine                        0     NH 2
                             DMF/DCM                   -                              in DMF
                   C-CI                                         C-O        HC-
                          C    I                              -       CI                            J           C0      HH
 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin (2-CITrt)   Fmoc-Gly-2-CITrt resin                                      H-Gly-2-ClTrt resin
                                                                                                        i)
                                                                                                        ii)
   i) Peptide Chain assemly                                                      rt          H    0
      using Fmoc chemistry                                                          N        N       N       OH
                                                                     FmocHN         H     0          H     0
   ii) 1%TFA/DCM                                                     FOtBu
                          Fmoc-Ala1 l-Cys 1 2(Trt)-Thr 13(tBu)-Gly' 4-OH,(FmocAA 11-140H)
                                                                20

                                                           Scheme 6
                  Solution phase synthesis of the side-chain-protected C-terminal dipeptide
                                                                                                    0      OtBu
 OtBu                                                           O                        TrtS          N"
                           H2              +      TrtS             OH         i, ilNH               2  H
                            OtBu .HCI                       NHFmoc
     H-Tyr(tBu)-OtBu.HCI                            Fmoc-Cys(Trt)-OH                  H                 16
                                                                                                           (tBu
                                                                                                               OtBu
                                                                                      H-Cys15(Trt)-Tyr a(tBu)-OtBu
      i) HOBt, HBTU, DIPEA, DMF;
      ii) 5% Piperidine in DCM                                                                H-15-160tBu
                                                           Scheme 7
                      Fragment condensation, disulfide brigdes folding, and purification
       15
H-Cys     (Trt)-Tyr 16 (tBu)-OtBu +        Fmoc-Alal -Cys 1 2(Trt)-Thr 13 (tBu)-Gly   4
                                                                                        -OH
        H-AA15-160tBu                                    Fmoc-AA11-140H
                                         HBTU, Cl-HOBt,DIPEA, DMF
                1
  Fmoc-Ala       -Cys 12 (Trt)-Thr 13(tBu)-Glyl 4-Cys 1 5(Trt)-Tyr 16 (tBu)-OtBu
                            Fmoc-AA11-160tBu
                                         5% Piperidine in DMF
                                            4     15          16
 H-Ala 1 -Cys 12(Trt)-Thr 13 (tBu)-Glyl -Cys (Trt)-Tyr (tBu)-OtBu
                                H-AA11-160tBu
                                           HBTU, Cl-HOBt,DIPEA,
                                           Boc-AA1-100HDMF
Boc-Asn(Trt)-Phe 2-Cys 3 (Trt)-Cys 4 (Trt)-GIu5 (OtBu)-Ser 6(tBu)--Cys 7(Trt)-Cys(Trt)-Asn 9 (Trt)-Pro 0 -Ala1 1-Cys 12 (Trt)
Thr13 (tBu)-Gly1 4-Cys 15 (Trt)-Tyr1 6 (tBu)-OtBu
                                       I  TFA:EDT:TIS:H 20 (85:5:5:5,v/v/v/v), 2h
  H-Asni-Phe 2-Cys 3-Cys 4-Glu 5 -Ser -Cys 7-Cys-Asn 9 -Pro 0-AIa1 -Cys 12 -Thr 1 3-Gly' -Cys 15 -Tyr 16-OH
             Oxidative folding             0.1 M NaHCO 3, 1 M GuHCI, 3 mM cysteine and 0.3 mM cystine, pH 8.1
                                           in 15%ACN aq.
H-Asn -Phe 2 -                                                                 s12Thr 3-Gly 4-s       -Tyr 16 -OH
                                                                                                    15
                      YS      -GuSer          ys7-Cys-Asn-
                                          Preparative RP-HPLC,
                                          Counter-ion exchange
                                          Lyophilisation
                              SP-353 drug substance
                                                                  21

[62]        In yet another embodiment, the process of the invention is used for preparing SP-333.
The general strategy for the hybrid synthesis of SP-333 includes solid phase and solution phase
syntheses to produce suitable peptide fragments (see Schemes 8 and 9 below), subsequent
segment condensation to form the linear crude peptide (see Scheme 9 below), oxidative folding
to form the cyclized final product, purification, and lyophilization (see Scheme 10 below).
                                                       Scheme 8
                               Fmoc-Leu-OH                     0    NHFmoc piiine
                              DIEA in                                         ipuO                         0
                                                                                                           0t      N 2
                          c-DMF/DC[\       Q-         ---
                                                        9D
                        CI                                    CI0                                     0-0IC
 2-chlorotrityl chloride resin (2-CITrt)   Fmoc-Leu-2-CITrt resin                       H-Leu-2-CITrt resin
                                                0 OtBu                                    i)
                                          O          H      O      STrt   O
                                                     H               H
                                 BocHN               N,              N              OH
                                   TtN       H                 H             H      0
                               TrtHN              O                0              O
                                      0
                                                  o     OtBu            0    OtBu
                 Boc-D-Asn(Trt)-Asp(OtBu)-Glu(OtBu)-Cys(Trt)-Glu(OtBu)-Leu-OH,(Fragment A or BocAA1 -60H)
                            Fmoc-Gly-OH                      0DBU,HOBt
                            DIEA      y-                  /       NHFmoc piperidine                   / O       NH2
                            DMF/DCM      UC-O                     H       in DMF                  C-0            H
                                                                                                    ;-CICI
2-chlorotrityl chloride resin (2-CITrt) Fmoc-Gly-2-CITrt resin                               H-Gly-2-ClTrt resin
                                                                                              i)
                                                                                              ii)
                                                            TrtS
  i) Peptide Chain assembly                          0      H             H         0                 0
     using Emoc chemistry                HO                 N             N               N       '"N        NHFmoc
                                                      NNN                                 N
                                              OjH                  HHH
  ii) 1%TFA/DCM                              0                 0          H               H O0      H
                                                          OtBu               TrtHN    0                            NHAc
             Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn(Trt)-Val-Ala-Cys(Trt)-Thr(tBu)-G ly-OH, (Fragment B or FmocAA7-140H)
                                                            22

                                                   Scheme 9
                                               DIEA, HOBt, HBTU
 H-D-Leu-OtBu.HCI      + Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-OH            DMF      .   Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-D-Leu-OtBu
                                                                     FmocAA1 5-160tBu
 Piperidine/DC\     H-Cys(Acm)-D-Leu-OtBu DIEA, Cl-HOBt, HBTU
                      HAA15-160tBu               FmocAA7-140H,    FmocAA7-l6OtBu
                                                 DMF
   Piperidine/DCM                   DIEA, CI-HOBt, HBTU                TIS/EDT/TFA
                     HAA7-16OtBu                        " BocAA1-160tBu         : HAA1-160H
                                       BocAA1-60H,
                                        DMF
      H-D-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-D-Leu-OH
                                                  Scheme 10
   H-D-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-D-Leu-OH
   HAA1-160H              H2 0 2
   H-D-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys(Acm)-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys(Acm)-D-Leu-OH
   monocyclized HAA1-160H
                          12/AcOH
H-D-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys-D-Leu-OH
dicyclized HAA1-160H
                         Load to the RP-HPLC cloumn
                          Elute with ACN/H 20
                            Pool qualified fractions
                           Salt exchange and lyophilization
  H-D-Asn-Asp-Glu-Cys-Glu-Leu-Cys-Val-Asn-Val-Ala-Cys-Thr-Gly-Cys-D-Leu-OH
                            SP-333 drug substance
[63]       In another aspect, the invention also provides a process of purifying peptides, e.g.,
peptide GCC agonists. The general strategy for purifying peptides, including those synthesized
                                                      23

 by the hybrid methods disclosed herein, include, e.g., the steps illustrated in Scheme 1 I below.
 It is understood that certain steps in Scheme I1 may be repeated (e.g., rinsing column with
deionized water) or absent (e.g., salt exchange or alcohol removal after dewatering) to optimize
the purification process.
                                                  Scheme 11
              Peptide, e.g., dicyclized SP-304 or SP-333
                   Load to the RP-HPLC cloumn
                    Elute with ACN/H 20
                     Pool qualified fractions, e.g., >95% HPLC pure
                    Salt exchange
                    Pool qualified fractions, e.g., >95% HPLC pure
                    Load the main pool to column packaged with polymeric adsorbent
                    for desalination
                    Wash the column with deinoized water
                    Elute the peptide with an alcohol aqueous solution (e.g., isopropanol/water) and
                    collect the eluate
                    Remove water, e.g., by azeotropic distillation
                     Remove alcohol, e.g., under reduced pressure
                    Add an ether to the dewatered peptide, e.g., cold diethyl ether
                    Dry the peptide under vacuum
        Purified peptide for further drug manufacturing process
[64]      In yet another aspect, this invention provides a purified peptide, e.g., peptide GCC
agonists, purified by the precipitation process described herein. Preferably, the purified peptide
is SP-304 (SEQ ID NO:1) or SP-333 (SEQ ID NO:9). In one embodiment, the purified SP-304
or SP-333 has a bulk density of no less than 0.05 g/mL, no less than 0.1 g/mL, no less than 0.2
g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL, or no less than 0.5 g/mL. In a preferred
                                                       24

  embodiment, the purified SP-304 or SP-333 has a bulk density of about 0.05-2 g/mL, about 0.2
  0.7 g/mL, about 0.3-0.6 g/mL, or about 0.4-0.5 g/mL. In one embodiment, the purified SP-304
  or SP-333 has a tap density of no less than 0.08 g/mL, no less than 0.1 g/mL, no less than 0.15
  g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL, no less than 0.5 g/mL,
  or no less than 0.6 g/mL. For example, the purified SP-304 or SP-333 has a tap density of 0.08-2
 g/mL, about 0.4-0.9 g/mL, about 0.5-0.8 g/mL, or about 0.6-0.7 g/mL. In one embodiment, the
 purified peptide SP-304 or SP-333 contains < 0.01% acetamide (e.g., <28ppm), <0.3%
 ammon ium ion (e.g., <0.25%), <0.0 1% acetonitrile (e.g., <20 ppm), and/or < 0.1% TFA (e.g.,
   0.09%). In one embodiment, the purified peptide SP-304 or SP-333 has a bulk density of 0.4
 0.5 g/mL, has a tap density of 0.6-0.7 g/mL, and contains < 0.01% acetamide (e.g., <28ppm),
 <0.3% ammonium ion (e.g., <0.25%), <0.0 1% acetonitrile (e.g., <20 ppm), and/or < 0.1% TFA
 (e.g., <0.09%).
 1.1      GCC Agonists
 [65]      The GCC agonists prepared by the processes of the invention can bind to guanylate
 cyclase C and stimulate intracellular production of cGMP. Optionally, the GCC agonists induce
 apoptosis and inhibit proliferation of epithelial cells. The term, "guanylate cyclase C" refers to a
transmembrane form of guanylate cyclase that acts as the intestinal receptor for the heat-stable
toxin (ST) peptides secreted by enteric bacteria. Guanylate cyclase C is also the receptor for the
naturally occurring peptides guanylin and uroguanylin. The possibility that there may be
different receptors for each of these peptides has not been excluded. Hence, the term "guanylate
cyclase C" may also encompass a class of transmembrane guanylate cyclase receptors expressed
on epithelial cells lining the gastrointestinal mucosa.
[66]       The term "GCC agonist" refers to both peptides and non-peptide compounds such as
that bind to an intestinal guanylate cyclase C and stimulate the intracellular production of cGMP.
Where the GCC agonist is a peptide, the term encompasses biologically active fragments of such
peptides and pro-peptides that bind to guanylate cyclase C and stimulate the intracellular
production of cGMP.
                                                   25

1.1.1   GCC Agonist Peptides
[67]     The GCC agonists prepared by the methods of the invention are preferably peptides. In
some embodiments, the GCC agonist peptide is less than 30 amino acids in length. In particular
embodiments, the GCC agonist peptide is less than or equal to 30, 25, 20, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10,
or 5 amino acids in length. Examples of GCC agonist peptides for use in the formulations and
methods of the invention include those described in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,879,802 and 8,034,782,
and U.S. Publication Nos. US 2010-0069306 and US 2010-0120694, each of which is
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[68]     Specific examples of GCC agonist peptides that can be prepared by the methods of the
invention include those described in Tables 1-VII below. As used Tables I-VII, the terms
"PEG3" or "3PEG" refer to a polyethylene glycol such as aminoethyloxy-ethyloxy-acetic acid
(AeeA), and polymers thereof. The term "Xaa" refers to any natural or unnatural amino acid or
amino acid analogue. The term "Maa" refers to a cysteine (Cys), penicillamine (Pen)
homocysteine, or 3-mercaptoproline. The term "Xaani" is meant to denote an amino acid
sequence of any natural or unnatural amino acid or amino acid analogue that is one, two or three
residues in length; Xaan2 is meant to denote an amino acid sequence that is zero or one residue in
length; and Xaan3 is meant to denote an amino acid sequence zero, one, two, three, four, five or
six residues in length. Additionally, any amino acid represented by Xaa, Xaan ,Xaan 2,orXaan3
may be an L-amino acid, a D-amino acid, a methylated amino acid or any combination of
thereof. Optionally, any GCC agonist peptide represented by Formulas I to XX in the tables may
 contain one or more polyethylene glycol residues at the N- terminus, C-terminus or both.
 [69]     In certain embodiments, a GCC agonist prepared by the methods of the invention
 comprises a peptide selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1-249, the sequences of which are set forth
 below in Tables I to VII below. In one embodiment, a GCC agonist prepared by the methods of
 the invention comprises the peptide designated by SEQ ID NOs: 1, 8, 9, 55, or 56.
 [70]     In certain embodiments, a GCC agonist prepared by the methods of the invention
 comprises a peptide that is substantially equivalent to a peptide selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1
 249. The term "substantially equivalent" refers to a peptide that has an amino acid sequence
                                                  26

   equivalent to that of the binding domain where certain residues may be deleted or replaced with
   other amino acids without impairing the peptide's ability to bind to an intestinal guanylate
   cyclase receptor and stimulate fluid and electrolyte transport.
   [71]     In certain embodiments, the GCC agonist peptides are analogues of uroguanylin or a
  bacterial ST peptide. Uroguanylin is a circulating peptide hormone with natriuretic activity. An
  ST peptide is a member of a family of heat stable enterotoxins (ST peptides) secreted by
  pathogenic strains of E coli and other enteric bacteria that activate guanylate cyclase receptor
  and cause secretory diarrhea. Unlike bacterial ST peptides, the binding of uroguanylin to
  guanylate cyclase receptor is dependent on the physiological pH of the gut. Therefore,
  uroguanylin is expected to regulate fluid and electrolyte transport in a pH dependent manner and
  without causing severe diarrhea.
  [72]      The GCC agonist peptides prepared by the methods of the invention can be polymers of
  L-amino acids, D-amino acids, or a combination of both. For example, in
                                                                               various embodiments,
 the peptides are D retro-inverso peptides. The term "retro-inverso isomer" refers to an isomer of
 a linear peptide in which the direction of the sequence is reversed and the chirality of each amino
 acid residue is inverted. See, e.g., Jameson et al., Nature, 368, 744-746 (1994);
                                                                                     Brady et al.,
 Nature, 368, 692-693 (1994). The net result of combining D-enantiomers and reverse synthesis
 is that the positions of carbonyl and amino groups in each amide bond are exchanged, while the
 position of the side-chain groups at each alpha carbon is preserved. Unless specifically stated
 otherwise, it is presumed that any given L-amino acid sequence of the invention may be made
 into a D retro-inverso peptide by synthesizing a reverse of the sequence for the corresponding
native L-amino acid sequence.
[73]       The GCC agonist peptides prepared by the methods of the invention are able to induce
intracellular cGMP production in cells and tissues expressing guanylate cyclase C. In certain
embodiments, the GCC agonist peptide stimulates 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 75%, 90%
or more intracellular cGMP compared to naturally occurring GCC agonists
                                                                               such as uroguanylin,
guanylin, or ST peptides. Optionally, the GCC agonist peptide stimulates 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%,
40%, 50%, 75%, 90% or more intracellular cGMP compared to SP-304 (SEQ ID NO:1). In
                                                  27

further embodiments, the GCC agonist peptide stimulates apoptosis, e.g., programmed cell death,
or activate the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).
[74]      In some embodiments, the GCC agonist peptides prepared by the methods of the
invention are more stable than naturally occurring GCC agonists and/or SP-304 (SEQ ID NO:1),
SP-339 (linaclotide) (SEQ ID NO: 55) or SP-340 (SEQ ID NO: 56). For example, the GCC
agonist peptide degrades 2%, 3%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 75%, 90% or less
compared to naturally occurring GCC agonists and/or SP-304, SP-339 (linaclotide) or SP-340.
In certain embodiments, the GCC agonist peptides for use in the formulations and methods of the
invention are more stable to proteolytic digestion than naturally occurring GCC agonists and/or
SP-304 (SEQ ID NO:I), SP-339 (linaclotide) (SEQ ID NO: 55) or SP-340 (SEQ ID NO: 56). In
one embodiment, a GCC agonist peptide is pegylated in order to render the peptides more
resistant towards proteolysis by enzymes of the gastrointestinal tract. In a preferred
embodiment, the GCC agonist peptide is pegylated with the aminoethyloxy-ethyloxy-acetic acid
(Aeea) group at its C-terminal end, at its N-terminal end, or at both termini.
[75]      Specific examples of GCC agonist peptides that can be prepared by the methods of the
invention include a peptide selected from the group designated by SEQ ID NOs: 1-249.
 [76]     In one embodiment, the GCC agonist peptide is a peptide having the amino acid
sequence of any one of Formulas X- XVII (e.g. SEQ ID NOs: 87-98).
 [77]     In some embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula I, wherein at least one amino acid of Formula I is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid and/or the amino acid at position 16 is a serine. Preferably, the amino
acid at position 16 of Formula I is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. For example, the
amino acid at position 16 of Formula I is a d-leucine or a d-serine. Optionally, one or more of
the amino acids at positions 1-3 of Formula I are D-amino acids or methylated amino acids or a
combination of D-amino acids or methylated amino acids. For example, Asn', Asp 2 or Glu 3 (or a
combination thereof) of Formula I is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the
amino acid at position Xaa6 of Formula I is a leucine, serine or tyrosine.
                                                 28

 [78]     In alternative embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino
acid sequence of Formula II, wherein at least one amino acid of Formula 1Iis a D-amino acid or
a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid denoted by Xaan2 of Formula II is a D
amino acid or a methylated amino acid. In some embodiments, the amino acid denoted by Xaan2
of Formula II is a leucine, a d-leucine, a serine, or a d-serine. Preferably, the one or more amino
acids denoted by Xaani of Formula II is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. Preferably,
the amino acid at position Xaa 6 of Formula II is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine.
[79]      In some embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula III, wherein at least one amino acid of Formula III is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid and/or Maa is not a cysteine. Preferably, the amino acid denoted by
Xaan2 of Formula III is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid. In some embodiments the
amino acid denoted by Xaan2 of Formula III is a leucine, a d-leucine, a serine, or a d-serine.
Preferably, the one or more amino acids denoted by Xaa 1 of Formula III is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position Xaa6 of Formula III is a leucine, a
serine, or a tyrosine.
[80]     In other embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula IV, wherein at least one amino acid of Formula IV is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid, and/or Maa is not a cysteine. Preferably, the Xaa, 2 of Formula IV is a D
amino acid or a methylated amino acid. In some embodiments, the amino acid denoted by Xaan2
of Formula IV is a leucine, a d-leucine, a serine, or a d-serine. Preferably, the one or more of the
amino acids denoted by Xaai of Formula IV is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid.
Preferably, the amino acid denoted Xaa 6 of Formula IV is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine.
[81]     In further embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino acid
sequence of Formula V, wherein at least one amino acid of Formula V is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 16 of Formula V is a D-amino
acid or a methylated amino acid. For example, the amino acid at position 16 (i.e., Xaal 6 ) of
Formula V is a d-leucine or a d-serine. Optionally, one or more of the amino acids at position 1
3 of Formula V are D-amino acids or methylated amino acids or a combination of D-amino acids
or methylated amino acids. For example, Asn', Asp 2 or Glu 3 (or a combination thereof) of
                                                  29

Formula V is a D-amino acids or a methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid denoted at
Xaa6 of Formula V is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine.
[82]      In additional embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino
acid sequence of Formula VI, VII, VIII, or IX. Preferably, the amino acid at position 6 of
Formula VI, VII, VIII, or IX is a leucine, a serine, or a tyrosine. In some aspects the amino acid
at position 16 of Formula VI, VII, VIII, or IX is a leucine or a serine. Preferably, the amino acid
at position 16 of Formula V is a D-amino acid or a methylated amino acid.
[83]      In additional embodiments, GCC agonist peptides include peptides having the amino
acid sequence of Formula X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI or XVII. Optionally, one or more
amino acids of Formulas X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI or XVII is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid. Preferably, the amino acid at the carboxy terminus of the peptides
according to Formulas X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI or XVII is a D-amino acid or a
methylated amino acid. For example the amino acid at the carboxy terminus of the peptides
according to Formulas X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI or XVII is a D-tyrosine.
[84]      Preferably, the amino acid denoted by Xaa 6 of Formula XIV is a tyrosine, phenylalanine
or a serine. Most preferably the amino acid denoted by Xaa 6 of Formula XIV is a phenylalanine
or a serine. Preferably, the amino acid denoted by Xaa4 of Formula XV, XVI or XVII is a
tyrosine, a phenylalanine, or a serine. Most preferably, the amino acid position Xaa 4 of Formula
V, XVI or XVII is a phenylalanine or a serine.
[85]      In some embodiments, GCRA peptides include peptides containing the amino acid
sequence of Formula XVIII. Preferably, the amino acid at position I of Formula XVIII is a
glutamic acid, aspartic acid, glutamine or lysine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 2 and 3
of Formula XVIII is a glutamic acid, or an aspartic acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 5
a glutamic acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 6 of Formula XVIII is an isoleucine,
valine, serine, threonine, or tyrosine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 8 of Formula XVIII
is a valine or isoleucine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 9 of Formula XVIII is an
asparagine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 10 of Formula XVIII is a valine or a
methionine. Preferably, the amino acid at position I I of Formula XVIII is an alanine.
Preferably, the amino acid at position 13 of Formula XVIII is a threonine. Preferably, the amino
                                                  30

acid at position 14 of Formula XVIII is a glycine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 16 of
Formula XVIII is a leucine, serine or threonine
[86]      In alternative embodiments, GCRA peptides include peptides containing the amino acid
sequence of Formula XIX. Preferably, the amino acid at position 1 of Formula XIX is a serine or
asparagine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 2 of Formula XIX is a histidine or an aspartic
acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 3 of Formula XIX is a threonine or a glutamic acid.
Preferably, the amino acid at position 5 of Formula XIX is a glutamic acid. Preferably, the
amino acid at position 6 of Formula XIX is an isoleucine, leucine, valine, or tyrosine.
Preferably, the amino acid at position 8, 10, I1, or 13 of Formula XIX is an alanine. Preferably,
the amino acid at position 9 of Formula XIX is an asparagine or a phenylalanine. Preferably, the
amino acid at position 14 of Formula XIX is a glycine.
[87]      In further embodiments, GCRA peptides include peptides containing the amino acid
sequence of Formula XX. Preferably, the amino acid at position I of Formula XX is a
glutamine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 2 or 3 of Formula XX is a glutamic acid or an
aspartic acid. Preferably, the amino acid at position 5 of Formula XX is a glutamic acid.
Preferably, the amino acid at position 6 of Formula XX is threonine, glutamine, tyrosine,
isoleucine, or leucine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 8 of Formula XX is isoleucine or
valine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 9 of Formula XX is asparagine. Preferably, the
amino acid at position 10 of Formula XX is methionine or valine. Preferably, the amino acid at
position I I of Formula XX is alanine. Preferably, the amino acid at position 13 of Formula XX
is a threonione. Preferably, the amino acid at position I of Formula XX is a glycine. Preferably,
the amino acid at position 15 of Formula XX is a tyrosine. Optionally, the amino acid at position
15 of Formula XX is two amino acid in length and is Cysteine (Cys), Penicillamine (Pen)
homocysteine, or 3-mercaptoproline and serine, leucine or threonine.
[88]      In certain embodiments, one or more amino acids of the GCC agonist peptides are
replaced by a non-naturally occurring amino acid or a naturally or non-naturally occurring amino
acid analog. Such amino acids and amino acid analogs are known in the art. See, for example,
Hunt, "The Non-Protein Amino Acids," in Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Amino Acids,
Barrett, Chapman, and Hall, 1985. In some embodiments, an amino acid is replaced by a
                                                 31

naturally-occurring, non-essential amino acid, e.g., taurine. Non-limiting examples of naturally
occurring amino acids that can be replaced by non-protein amino acids include the following: (1)
an aromatic amino acid can be replaced by 3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine, 3-iodo-L-tyrosine,
triiodothyronine, L-thyroxine, phenylglycine (Phg) or nor-tyrosine (norTyr); (2) Phg and norTyr
and other amino acids including Phe and Tyr can be substituted by, e.g., a halogen, -CH3, -OH,
CH2NH3, -C(O)H, -CH2CH3, - CN, -CH2CH2CH3, -SH, or another group; (3) glutamine
residues can be substituted with gamma-Hydroxy-Glu or gamma- Carboxy-Glu; (4) tyrosine
residues can be substituted with an alpha substituted amino acid such as L-alpha
methylphenylalanine or by analogues such as: 3-Amino-Tyr; Tyr(CH3); Tyr(PO3(CH3)2);
Tyr(SO3 H); beta-Cyclohexyl-Ala; beta-(l-Cyclopentenyl)-Ala; beta- Cyclopentyl-Ala; beta
Cyclopropyl-Ala; beta-Quinolyl-Ala; beta-(2-Thiazolyl)-Ala; beta- (Triazole-l-yl)-Ala; beta-(2
Pyridyl)-Ala; beta-(3-Pyridyl)-Ala; Amino-Phe; Fluoro-Phe; Cyclohexyl-Gly; tBu-Gly; beta-(3
benzothienyl)-Ala; beta-(2-thienyl)-Ala; 5-Methyl-Trp; and A- Methyl-Trp; (5) proline residues
can be substituted with homopro (L-pipecolic acid); hydroxy-Pro; 3,4-Dehydro-Pro; 4-fluoro
Pro; or alpha-methyl-Pro or an N(alpha)-C(alpha) cyclized amino acid analogues with the
structure: n = 0, 1, 2, 3; and (6) alanine residues can be substituted with alpha-substituted or N
methylated amino acid such as alpha-amino isobutyric acid (aib), L/D-alpha-ethylalanine (L/D
isovaline), L/D-methylvaline, or L/D-alpha-methylleucine or a non-natural amino acid such as
beta-fluoro-Ala. Alanine can also be substituted with: n = 0, 1, 2, 3 Glycine residues can be
substituted with alpha-amino isobutyric acid (aib) or L/D-alpha- ethylalanine (L/D-isovaline).
[89]      Further examples of non-natural amino acids include: an unnatural analog of tyrosine;
an unnatural analogue of glutamine; an unnatural analogue of phenylalanine; an unnatural
analogue of serine; an unnatural analogue of threonine; an alkyl, aryl, acyl, azido, cyano, halo,
hydrazine, hydrazide, hydroxyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, ether, thiol, sulfonyl, seleno, ester, thioacid,
borate, boronate, phospho, phosphono, phosphine, heterocyclic, enone, imine, aldehyde,
hydroxylamine, keto, or amino substituted amino acid, or any combination thereof; an amino
acid with a photoactivatable cross-linker; a spin-labeled amino acid; a fluorescent amino acid; an
amino acid with a novel functional group; an amino acid that covalently or noncovalently
interacts with another molecule; a metal binding amino acid; an amino acid that is amidated at a
site that is not naturally amidated, a metal-containing amino acid; a radioactive amino acid; a
photocaged and/or photoisomerizable amino acid; a biotin or biotin-analogue containing amino
                                                   32

acid; a glycosylated or carbohydrate modified amino acid; a keto containing amino acid; amino
acids comprising polyethylene glycol or polyether; a heavy atom substituted amino acid (e.g., an
                                            1    1
amino acid containing deuterium, tritium,     C,    N, or IS0 ); a chemically cleavable or
photocleavable amino acid; an amino acid with an elongated side chain; an amino acid
containing a toxic group; a sugar substituted amino acid, e.g., a sugar substituted serine or the
like; a carbon-linked sugar-containing amino acid; a redox-active amino acid; an a-hydroxy
containing acid; an amino thio acid containing amino acid; an a, a disubstituted amino acid; a    p
amino acid; a cyclic amino acid other than proline; an 0-methyl-L-tyrosine; an L-3-(2
naphthyl)alanine; a 3-methyl-phenylalanine; a p-acetyl-L-phenylaanine; an O-4-allyl-L-tyrosine;
a 4-propyl-L-tyrosine; a tri-O-acetyl-GcNAc      P -serine; an L-Dopa; a fluorinated phenylalanine;
an isopropyl-L-phenylalanine; a p-azido-L-phenylalanine; a p-acyl-L-phenylalanine; a p
benzoyl-L-phenylaanine; an L-phosphoserine; a phosphonoserine; a phosphonotyrosine; a p
iodo-phenylalanine; a 4-fluorophenylglycine; a p-bromophenylalanine; a p-amino-L
phenylalanine; an isopropyl-L-phenylalanine; L-3-(2-naphthyl)alanine; D- 3-(2-naphthyl)alanine
(dNal); an amino-, isopropyl-, or 0-allyl-containing phenylalanine analogue; a dopa, 0-methyl
L-tyrosine; a glycosylated amino acid; a p-(propargyloxy)phenylalanine; dimethyl-Lysine;
hydroxy-proline; mercaptopropionic acid; methyl-lysine; 3-nitro-tyrosine; norleucine; pyro
glutamic acid; Z (Carbobenzoxyl); c-Acetyl-Lysine;        -alanine; aminobenzoyl derivative;
aminobutyric acid (Abu); citrulline; aminohexanoic acid; aminoisobutyric acid (AIB);
cyclohexylalanine; d-cyclohexylalanine; hydroxyproline; nitro-arginine; nitro-phenylalanine;
nitro-tyrosine; norvaline; octahydroindole carboxylate; ornithine (Orn); penicillamine (PEN);
tetrahydroisoquinoline; acetamidomethyl protected amino acids and pegylated amino acids.
Further examples of unnatural amino acids and amino acid analogs can be found in U.S.
20030108885, U.S. 20030082575, US20060019347 (paragraphs 410-418) and the references
cited therein. The polypeptides of the invention can include further modifications including those
described in US20060019347, paragraph 589. Exemplary GCC agonist peptides which include a
non-naturally occurring amino acid include for example SP-368 and SP-369.
[90]      In some embodiments, the GCC agonist peptides are cyclic peptides. GCC agonist
cyclic peptides can be prepared by methods known in the art. For example, macrocyclization is
often accomplished by forming an amide bond between the peptide N- and C-termini, between a
side chain and the N- or C-terminus [e.g., with K3Fe(CN) 6 at pH 8.5] (Samson et al.,

Endocrinology, 137: 5182-5185 (1996)), or between two amino acid side chains, such as
cysteine. See, e.g., DeGrado,Adv Protein Chem, 39: 51-124 (1988). In various embodiments,
the GCC agonist peptides are [4,12; 7,15] bicycles.
[91]      In certain embodiments, one or both Cys residues which normally form a disulfide bond
in a GCC agonist peptide are replaced with homocysteine, penicillamine, 3-mercaptoproline
(Kolodziej et al. 1996 Int. J. Pept. Protein Res. 48:274), P, P dimethylcysteine (Hunt et al. 1993
Int. J. Pept. Protein Res. 42:249), or diaminopropionic acid (Smith et al. 1978 J. Med. Chem. 2
 1:117) to form alternative internal cross-links at the positions of the normal disulfide bonds.
[92]      In certain embodiments, one or more disulfide bonds in a GCC agonist peptide are
replaced by alternative covalent cross-links, e.g., an aide linkage (-CH 2CH(O)NHCH 2- or
CH 2NHCH(O)CH 2-), an ester linkage, a thioester linkage, a lactam bridge, a carbamoyl linkage,
a urea linkage, a thiourea linkage, a phosphonate ester linkage, an alkyl linkage (
CH 2CH 2 CH 2CH 2 -), an alkenyl linkage (-CH 2CH=CHCH 2-), an ether linkage (-CH 2CH 20CH2- or
-CH 20CH2CH 2-), a thioether linkage (-CH 2 CH 2SCH2 - or - CH 2 SCH 2CH 2-), an amine linkage (
CH 2CH 2NHCH 2- or -CH 2NHCH 2CH 2-) or a thioamide linkage (-CH 2C(S)NHCH 2- or -CH 2NHC
(S)CH 2 -). For example, Ledu et al. (Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. 100:11263-78, 2003) describe
methods for preparing lactam and amide cross-links. Exemplary GCC agonist peptides which
include a lactam bridge include, for example, SP-370.
[93]      In certain embodiments, the GCC agonist peptides have one or more conventional
polypeptide bonds replaced by an alternative bond. Such replacements can increase the stability
of the polypeptide. For example, replacement of the polypeptide bond between a residue amino
terminal to an aromatic residue (e.g. Tyr, Phe, Trp) with an alternative bond can reduce cleavage
by carboxy peptidases and may increase half-life in the digestive tract. Bonds that can replace
polypeptide bonds include: a retro-inverso bond (C(O)-NH instead of NH-C(O); a reduced aide
bond (NH-CH 2); a thiomethylene bond (S-CH 2 or CH 2-S); an oxomethylene bond (0-CH2 or
CH2-0); an ethylene bond (CH 2 -CH 2); a thioamide bond (C(S)-NH); a trans-olefine bond
(CH=CH); a fluoro substituted trans-olefine bond (CF=CH); a ketomethylene bond (C(O)-CHR
or CHR-C(O) wherein R is H or CH 3; and a fluoro-ketomethylene bond (C(O)-CFR or CFR
C(O) wherein R is H or F or CH 3 .
                                                   34

    [94]     In certain embodiments, the GCC agonist peptides are modified using standard
   modifications. Modifications may occur at the amino (N-), carboxy (C-) terminus, internally or a
   combination of any of the preceding. In one aspect described herein, there may be more than
   one type of modification on the polypeptide. Modifications include but are not limited to:
   acetylation, amidation, biotinylation, cinnamoylation, farnesylation, formylation, myristoylation,
   palmitoylation, phosphorylation (Ser, Tyr or Thr), stearoylation, succinylation, sulfurylation and
   cyclisation (via disulfide bridges or amide cyclisation), and modification by Cys3 or Cys5. The
   GCC agonist peptides described herein may also be modified by 2, 4-dinitrophenyl (DNP), DNP
   lysine, modification by 7-Amino-4-methyl- coumarin (AMC), flourescein, NBD (7-Nitrobenz-2
  Oxa-l,3-Diazole), p-nitro-anilide, rhodamine B, EDANS (5-(( 2 -aminoethyl)amino)naphthalene-l
  sulfonic acid), dabcyl, dabsyl, dansyl, texas red, FMOC, and Tamra (Tetramethylrhodamine).
  The GCC agonist peptides described herein may also be conjugated to, for example,
  polyethylene glycol (PEG); alkyl groups (e.g., C I -C20 straight or branched alkyl groups); fatty
  acid moieties; combinations of PEG, alkyl groups and fatty acid moieties (See, U.S. Patent
  6,309,633; Soltero et al., 2001 Innovations in Pharmaceutical Technology 106-110); BSA and
  KLH (Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin). The addition of PEG and other polymers which can be
  used to modify polypeptides of the invention is described in US20060 19347 section IX.
  [95]      A GCC agonist peptide can also be a derivative of a GCC agonist peptide described
 herein. For example, a derivative includes hybrid and modified forms of GCC agonist peptides
 in which certain amino acids have been deleted or replaced. A modification may also include
 glycosylation. Preferrably, where the modification is an amino acid substitution, it is a
 conservative substitution at one or more positions that are predicted to be non-essential amino
 acid residues for the biological activity of the peptide. A "conservative substitution" is one in
 which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain.
 Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art. These
 families include amino acids with basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic side
chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine,
                                                                                          asparagine,
glutanine, serine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine,
                                                                                         valine,
leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan), beta-branched side chains
(e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and aromatic side chains (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine,
tryptophan, histidine).
                                                   35

[96]      In one embodiment, a GCC agonist peptide prepared by the methods described herein is
subjected to random mutagenesis in order to identify mutants having biological activity.
[97]      In one embodiment, the methods of the invention can be used to prepare a GCC agonist
peptide that is substantially homologous to a GCC agonist peptide described herein. Such
substantially homologous peptides can be isolated by virtue of cross-reactivity with antibodies to
a GCC agonist peptide described herein.
[98]      Further examples of GCC agonist peptides that can be prepared by the methods of the
invention are found in Tables I-VII below.
1.1.2   Alternative Preparation Methods of GCC agonist peptides and Their Fragments
[99]      GCC agonist peptides and their fragments can be prepared using art recognized
techniques such as molecular cloning, peptide synthesis, or site-directed mutagenesis.
[100]     In addition to the conventional solution- or solid-phase peptide synthesis described
above, the GCC agonist peptides or their fragments can be produced by modern cloning
techniques. For example, the GCC agonist peptides are produced either in bacteria including,
without limitation, E. coli, or in other existing systems for polypeptide or protein production
(e.g., Bacillus subtilis, baculovirus expression systems using Drosophila Sf9 cells, yeast or
filamentous fungal expression systems, mammalian cell expression systems), or they can be
chemically synthesized. If the GCC agonist peptide or variant peptide is to be produced in
bacteria, e.g., E. coli, the nucleic acid molecule encoding the polypeptide may also encode a
leader sequence that permits the secretion of the mature polypeptide from the cell. Thus, the
sequence encoding the polypeptide can include the pre sequence and the pro sequence of, for
example, a naturally-occurring bacterial ST polypeptide. The secreted, mature polypeptide can
be purified from the culture medium.
 [101]    The sequence encoding a GCC agonist peptide described herein can be inserted into a
vector capable of delivering and maintaining the nucleic acid molecule in a bacterial cell. The
DNA molecule may be inserted into an autonomously replicating vector (suitable vectors
 include, for example, pGEM3Z and pcDNA3, and derivatives thereof). The vector nucleic acid
                                                   36

may be a bacterial or bacteriophage DNA such as bacteriophage lambda or M13 and derivatives
thereof. Construction of a vector containing a nucleic acid described herein can be followed by
transformation of a host cell such as a bacterium. Suitable bacterial hosts include but are not
limited to, E. coli, B. subtilis, Pseudomonas, Salmonella. The genetic construct also includes, in
addition to the encoding nucleic acid molecule, elements that allow expression, such as a
promoter and regulatory sequences. The expression vectors may contain transcriptional control
sequences that control transcriptional initiation, such as promoter, enhancer, operator, and
repressor sequences.
[102]    A variety of transcriptional control sequences are well known to those in the art. The
expression vector can also include a translation regulatory sequence (e.g., an untranslated 5'
sequence, an untranslated 3' sequence, or an internal ribosome entry site). The vector can be
capable of autonomous replication or it can integrate into host DNA to ensure stability during
polypeptide production.
[103]    The protein coding sequence that includes a GCC agonist peptide described herein can
also be fused to a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide affinity tag, e.g., glutathione S-transferase
(GST), maltose E binding protein, protein A, FLAG tag, hexa-histidine, myc tag or the influenza
HA tag, in order to facilitate purification. The affinity tag or reporter fusion joins the reading
frame of the polypeptide of interest to the reading frame of the gene encoding the affinity tag
such that a translational fusion is generated. Expression of the fusion gene results in translation
of a single polypeptide that includes both the polypeptide of interest and the affinity tag. In some
instances where affinity tags are utilized, DNA sequence encoding a protease recognition site
will be fused between the reading frames for the affinity tag and the polypeptide of interest.
[104]     Genetic constructs and methods suitable for production of immature and mature forms
of the GCC agonist peptides and variants described herein in protein expression systems other
than bacteria, and well known to those skilled in the art, can also be used to produce
polypeptides in a biological system.
 [105]    The peptides disclosed herein may be modified by attachment of a second molecule that
confers a desired property upon the peptide, such as increased half-life in the body, for example,
pegylation. Such modifications also fall within the scope of the term "variant" as used herein.
                                                  37

                                                                                                          cn~
                                cn                                                           C)
                                                                                V      )                                   z          C)            -V
                                                             -           -)                                                    I
                                 J--                                                >-1     U
                    ~       C)                                         U                  -I                   I
            U                                                    U
                                                                                                            >    -       -   En
                    >         :;              :0'                                      - c..                          > H
                                                                            oo      Z                n                r-     a
                     cn
                       > ~     ~
                                 m~
                                      >
                                        l
                                                  C)
                                                          cn
                                                                 -VHH
                                                                                   Hd                        Hn       V)   >     ~      ,>N*
                                                                                                                                             Un
                                           I-                     H                                    '-              H   U3         >
         F-     00
                If        )
                             U--                   d      C         I
                                                                                       U                                                                            0'2
                                                                                                                            U                       >
                             C/)       -Cd                         >,        U   -l               U
                                                                            -A as                         -DQ                             0               UA
                                                                                             I                                                       V)
                        I3                        V)      n                         C)             >,        >,              -/    0
                       ON
                        ON
                                                  C0   >1      >1                        N        U                                           C/-)
                                                                                                                                                               U 00
           N  C/     ,NV)U
                                                                                                   ~ ~                       0       C
                                                   I                                                /)) 2        C)            )                    V)  -   /)
                 0n                                  c'        V) =        V )      2n      In                2n      0n                             7
                2UU         >~~>                          >1 ~    V ,'           <0        -                  I
                      C)~~
                        C)   >U~~0                      ~                                     N     0
         I           U                                          crON     u       u       U         ON                               -               o
                      -              u)      C)         4u      Q-,      U        U      U        U        U        U      0
.0   Lr
      ,p
                                         -      -                     0- -     0                0          -        -                -             -
              u                                                  u
                                                                -Z       0                        0         0       -                              0      <
      Cu <0
                            00N      C',       C)N                               t-N     kn                r        0                                 -   0
                                                                                  mI         mI              m       MI       IN I    N      I      /     I
   rj                                U)        C/
                                                '                 /      c        /        /      /        C)       CO     C)      C/        /     /

                         -   N en        -     n         c             ooor-                          00 NN            m         t      i      '                o o                      -         (N
                                                         qN    N    N  N    N    N   (N        N   N m- m c          t      CI                   m          C-                        Cl m         m
                                                                                                                                              Lo                         m
          0                                                                                                                                                      -               n              c2
                              -nV)                                                                                   -ocn~C~C)
                                                                                          -                                                                               C)     Ct)                 t
                                                                                ~-                                               -        2                                                        0
                                     -c'       -
                                              c-c                                                                               c         e              e
                                               -                                                                     u
 C-                                                     >-                                   -                                 a       I-                                                -7       CZ    -7t
(9                  V)          V)                     'I(9     -          -)                                                                                                  u
                                               C-3                                                           >,        >,~~
                                                                  I                                 .                                                                                              .
                               >.
                                           >1                                                                                                           CAC~c
                        cd        c                      e      0
                                                                                                              c         -D     0
                                                                                                                                (n           c 0d                        Y                           0
                                                                U      U-        U,       L)        U~                 -u
                     CZ       -Ucn                       V0,0     0
                                                                                                                                          7         Cm                    e
    m       M,C                                                                                 mc
                           (9 (9
                               <       CO      -n                                 CA           In                                                              <       ,I                            V)
                                                        -0      <                <-        <         <                                                   <      En-      -      -<                   <
                    <                          Cl)       En
                                                        c)                                -,        -                                                     ,
0                   -C                     )0                     ~                  [       -        -               <         M <              <       m      = (3U           GrA -i=(   -         L
    In                          Ln                                                                          V)        Ln        V)       V-)     Ln 2 2 2      V)        VrH)   0 0,         C)      0
                                                                         1
          2
          Ul        (9)                --                                                                                                          n    E3                  )   E-)       E*C E-)~
            0       rz-         :-            0z-                 ----                          (     9     (                            (9(9            --     o-                         o         >
                  -                   (9                0                     ~                     U-,     U-                 U-        u-
             07                  I            (9                                             .        .                            >.0                  (
              Cl)           <      <  0                                                     4-z-                  t     4        -        4       t<z
           -l       00                                              000C                GclI 00              0'1                                 C)-<
       Cl)Cl)                    Cl)    Cl      a.l          CL         c-,      a.    .        a.      C.    Cl                                               r-,  0.     C) Cl    .0     0         0
                                      u)            u)                                   -n        -n    c/   /)c   )    7-  )           Z '  Z)      4-    4       Z      .    CZ     Z        Z    Z

                                ren       00         (all>     C )                      N       m       'ten~
                              ~~~Jr                                                                L   f Lr   ~~ I) If)
                                                                              CC       -        CC       Cd
          Sxi                                                                                   ct       c
                         '0~a                     CCCC           CC
                            .~       -X                                                                x
                                           b-g
                                                     ec        -
                                                                                                        cn
                                       Cd                                    z                  CC       CIS
      -                                                                                X
                               b          ~I
                     -j CC
                                                     X                                         X~
                                                                                                cd     XCC
                                                                                                       X
       F       u-''             b          CC                                                   >C
-                                                             ,9,          L75           M              C
     Cal-t      cC
                      o
                          Ic
                                          XC          cCC         C
                                                                  C
                                           cd                              ux
         1   I          CCI          -                         Cx       -  Cl)HCC        CC    xC      xCm< >
   >~2 Cd            MC         -                           C ISn          ><           >
                                                                           CCC           CC
     (.*                                             CC                    VC
  C/                    CC
                        M-                  I                 -            m                   (9      X
        C C/      K) CC                                                   (9i          (9X
                                2                                             x
                                                                 >2       U                          '
                                          CC
                                          X              9i                              M              CZCd
        -             -                   X
                 s    e
                              XtXXd                    c'                  X
                                     -               U                                                     "
                               2.           CC         m         Cld1
               x                                    xC        , I'                             (9      (
       (9(9                      ctL       CC)      (9           >         C-        C     C C  C       C
               UC"                            I             u                    I ~       ~
                     'n0    0              Cd                                      I
     C)Cl)                                          1~0.                   C/)C
                                                                            -
                    C-                                                    0.           <       <
            C/       CA ' U        i                 C           )                                       l
        C])      0I     Cd       mC       C          C/)                  <            <       <         <
                3     3z                                             x
U999~  e         ,               B-        o           9~
                                                        I             -   U8           U8      U8        E   u
                                                     cli                   C'i'        C'      C',      C'i
           -~~          -                            E           E
           YY9(C                                >    0                    Y

     M
     QD(Z)         t      '  10  >-00           C,     C)       -                                                     rr--    n e     00    ON
                                           c-                                                      -        2        2
                                                                                          >1        >1                            H          >
                                                                                 7c                                               C
                                              4- -            2-
                                                               en                         C~        (     ~   -         C          /
                     en       ~~ ~ ~             1    I--                                         -              ~                 ..
                                -A     e        -                                 o      <~        <                              <~         e
                    cnc                                                          C)                                   C)          C)         >
             '-                 _c
                                                     -n -           -H-                    -
                                                                                         0-C?       0         en~      V)          V)-,
                                                                                                                                  -C
>-In
                                                                    _            H        eono-toen                               en         en
                                      I
             0
                        -
                         6            ec)&
                                              -              -
                                                               HC)
                                                                       -
                                                                                 C)
                                                                                 CO
                                                                                         e
                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                   e                  ci
                                                                                                                      C           cCU)
                                                CA-.       enc            n          e>n                                                         >1
                                                                                            n         en                   en        en)
                                ce~ t
                                ce
                                         I
                                            ~o       t In~~e          enCf    ~     ce    C                                         z
                                                                                                                                   >1
             C)              )I                      C              i                                          I
                            Eoo
                                C)
                                wn              V)             C)                 V)     <n)                  V)
           4-: U U U U U                                            UU                             UUUU
            -O   e          e   CO    c        CO      S.-     >e   -       e     C       -         -            C           cO
       73                                       Clf  cz'       C        -        C4       cl        C4       C4                      c   cl
                                      w >0H-              >            -         \- 6 0    0         0        0-        0          0        0
                 o,
                ou       o      o,    cu                                                            u    e         o           s
             m)             C)                V)     V)                   0     0)                           0-                             0
             H-                       VHV)                        C           )        V        )C)         C)              C C)              C)

            -~        CA           Cr-                                               f  \          00    ON           C)Clq
                               N           N N                N                  N                                    00      00     00      00
                                   .0                        ci'C'                                                   c'                I
                              ,n          cc                                                 cl                                       V)
-1      -1
  _C         _I      -0                                                                                         c          0      -        -  0
          - -C    ~              -  V                                                                        c          ccc                   c
                                   co          CIS
                                                _f                                             '          (7                          V)
           En'                     0         CD        > U                       >               '        CO                  H1     U1      U
                                                L.                               CO              C/)                   COCO
                                                     <                    -j 0 -H1
                                                                                             U)        <             'I       <
                                                                                                                              UI
                                               r-    0n       c                    )L)
                        0     _1    cc          cc            000
 u       u            -             :        -<      :->
         a'           HL           Ul        UI      H,              I
                                                                                             uI
                                                n  I
              O)           0n                   CO                             CC)                       Ccc          Cc
                               <                                         I  "                                     I                       I
            UU                                                                                           , (A <P    UU               U)      U
                     N                  '                  )                     0
                                                                                 V)          I       ~         1        >1           H>1     H
                       0)~>         cc    0)    c                                                                                )
   00           u                 0             U                                              >1 0       0                          01
                          u0                                                                               '
                00   ~             H
                                      '
                                              H
                                              .'I
                                                     ~U
                                                     U          cc
                                                                                UCLU                       c
                                                                                                                      Uc                       i'
                  .,
                           cc~~~~/c             c      cc              '                    c'            0             )               )
                                                     _6  0      l   l       1       6 0   6  0             6            0,           06      0
 UU                               U          U                                 u
                                                                              -'             U             '            '     U
     oo               U0                             U00
                      Ic   c      -t                           0r .             0.           (0           0C            0     c000l0
 -a/      a           U)
                      C/)U                                   -                  0H             <                        ~    ~~

                Ln  \D         t--         00    C    CD   -           CNq          m~       't     /        ~       00
                                                                                                                          Q N
00       00          00        00          cc    00   QNI                                       oll                  oNl
                                                                        cd         CO
                                                                -        z         CO
                                                                                  XO
                                                                                CO;
                                                                   7                                CO                CO
                                                                        C)        x9                Cd
                                                                                   m    O>                            CO
                                                                                   CO       z
                                                                                           CO
         HS-
         -a          Ha                   -,     H<         IAi
                                                                     -
                                                                        Cz
                                                                                    O
                                                                                    m
                                                                                              OCO
                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                 C
    -     cn          IA         A                                     (
                                                                                     3A     C                     s   CO
                               IA                                                                   CO
                          V)~~                                    d                CO
                                                  -)       <.                      CO)      CO                        CO
    (9   0                                            05    CO                       I        I
                                                                                            COmC    d
                      -I                      I~ <z   -<         X><                v     -V        m        z
                                           Fm    C<H, H,                                    COCO    m        mO  C
                                                                        uO                                   CO  CO   C
          En          C/O                    cn                                                     Xn               x
                                                                         m                 x
                                      IA      I
                                                                 Xn          X      ~       In      Cn
                                                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                      CO
     V)m                                                                                            V V    CO O  CO   C
                IA     In        cn              en         CO-           CO      -,C,~
                 V)   c          n         En                d m9,m)m9                      = CO       C d    Od CO   CO
 cn                              >1          >1             CO Zn CO
                                                            Mn           Mn M~              CO        nc          3
             -.                                          .                 - O CO) U<          >
0                                 I                 I             CO          CO                    CO       CO   O   C
     0I                         I                                      E -     I0
                     'I                     .0        (01          C)n                 CO E     ~     C      Ez    E    CO
          -q         ri          C  -   C                                                                                     0 >
                                (9          0 0   00     0 ><o'><ee'i'x

                                                                 C)        C)
                                    F-
                                    2f
                                     C/    F
  U           uU               u             U u
                                                                          U           F
    Ln         C/)         C/)       U
         CS    Cd         l          cd     Cd                   -
                                                                 03          0
                     2
                                                                 >         >
                 N                                             '         '   III
       U)               U)           (A
                                     U
                                        I                          I         I        <
                                      I1 '    1 -I        'I'I                            >
   U/)         U)         y)         U/)      )        C
   0           0D      co            0.      0         .
        ''I              l                                         II     '1         0
   U)         cn                                                                        0
o  o
   V )
              CL-        0"            0-    0                        cl
                                                                                        _)  C  AC) c
  U)          cn tCI           2/   L)      tf)       Iff                              f
  -0                           <
                                   ~~C
                                     U                U         U         CC         CUUU
         -E                                                                              )
            EC    ')                                                                  C?
        CI~~~          ~          ~ 2      ~L      M-                 L          M   a
  CHZ         C/)       V)          C/       )                  C" 0.       C/)   0.    C/    C0.

cy        00                                       ('4           m   '
                                 ci)     U1)         U)                                 co ) ) 0
                                UU       u          u            u         u
                  (U          -1              ON '             01                >1  01
                                     U     )          U)          U)        (n   U)     U)
                                                     >1           >e1-      >e   >1     >
                                Hd       H          UH           U              H
                                                                                U      H
       I-                 >-.                    'flU)         enU)       eneo
                     I             )       U)        U)           U)        U)   U)     U)
                  Cd             >1                               >1             >1     >1
                                                           (U(1             Q)   (a)    a)
              W3                 H       H                       H          H          H
        (U                      '.10
                                 >0                   >1I         >1        >1   >1     >
                 (U      cu.      'r                10                     '7   u
              m-           I  0                  '             0          0
             X            V)                     C              N         O    N0'   O
                  (UU                    U)               U)                U)   U)     U
                                CD      00         0            0         00   0     0
   (1)
                 uU    uU                            (U           (U   uu   (U   (U    U(
              (U                       ~:al
        0~~~~L                                         )          U)        U      )    U
                                                                                      00U

                                               00      ON-   C'                                                                    1""           00
     --                                 c'l       cq         (N         (N               (                       cq (               N           (N
                                        2'
                                '2~~~~~~U                    2'2'                                    2'                            2'            co'
   U)       U)              U)             U)      U)         U)          U)          U)                     U)             U)             U)      )
                      >1                           - 1 1      -71         -1          -71               -1         >1               (I)            >1
U)         U)               U)             U)      U)           fl         U)         U)                (fl        U)                U)            U)
   >          1              >               1       >            1        >               1>1    >,                    >1     >1
U)         U)               U)            U)       U)         U)         C)          C)                   )       C)                  C))
            I:               I           <        9           <                       9               54I
U)         U)               U)            U)       Ur)        U)          U)          U)                U)         U)                 U)           U)
C)        C)                  )          C)        C)         C)         C)           C)              C)          C)                C)           C)
   >1         1             >1            >1       >1             1       >1          >1                >             1
U          (U               u              (u      (U         (U          (U          U                 (U         u                  U            U
   H4      H,               Ha            H                              H            H                 H4
                   U)                               I)        U)                      U)                            I
                                                                                                                   U)
               oQ     0a                                                2           0                              Q4                 Q,
   U)       U                 )                      )U)            U)           U)             U)                 U)                 U)           U
                                                  CID                    g:
                                V) C))                   VC)        VC) C) C)    C)   C               C4)     -  C)                 C) f,    n   C)
                                           I)                       0         E-        I)     E)    FI     U-            0        EI      -     U
        '2        '2                                                rz0                                         '2         :-     '2      :    '2
m                        '2            '2                                z32         712
                                                                                    '2'                                            '2
   U)                       ci              )      U             )        U           U                   )        U               zi )

             C)H                                                       'tC                                                             C
  U1)         U)             a)            U2)              U)          U)             a)          a)        (1)     U)          1)    U1)
   U)   U)             U)            U)            U)            U)                    U)         U)         U)       U)        U)      U)
   >1           >1           >1              >1              >4           >1           >1          >1        >1       >1         >1      >1
        >1       >1          >1              >1              >3           >1           >1          >1        >1       >1         >1      >1
       -i                    H--           o4-             oHq          e     -         H         r-H       -A        -1        -4       -1
   UU)                                       U)U)                             U)       U)          U)        U)       U)         U)      U)
   >1           >1           >1              >1              >1          >1            >1          >4        >4       >4         >4      >4
  C)          Co                                C)           C     )       C)         C)          C)        C)       C0        C)      C)
  CD          U            CD              CD              0           0             0           0          CD      0          0       0
  U)U)                                   U)          U)           U)              U)            U)      U)       U)         U)           U)
*  >4           >4           >4            >4                >4          >4            >4         >4         >4       >4         >4      >4
                U-   )     H)                 )            H)              )                      co                  co                 Y)   H   )
        4        4              4            4               44                          4                            Q,         Q  44
       C)       C             )            C)               C             )            C)         C)       C)         co         U)
              Q) U)4              U)       U)                UQU                        )           )                    U)      Uf)     U)
                             co >4      >O                                      -1 >4 >4 >4        >4        >        >4         >4      >4
                                   EC)            E)                 E3 C)" C) - C )       C)     C)       C)        C)        C)      C)
          4:                                            [-    4  - 4    4                   z 4       t:4   4          4:-        I         4   6
       C)                  m               tC       )                                r-          00         01C)                       c)
       H        n U)          )            Ur)              Ur)                       H                               >4         >4      >I'
             z)           z)              z)              7-          z)             Z-)         z-        z                              -

       -n                                                    r-tI       00         o               C, C                           C14
 U              )        Y               oU)               F-Z                  U)       Y)          U)        U)            U)
 ul          Cl          Cl     Cl     Cl         Cl         Cl           Cl         Cl)             Cl        Cl            Cl
 >0          >           >1     >1     >1         >1         >1           >1         >1              >1        >1               >
(D          C)         C)             CD         CD           D          CD         (D              CD         C)          C
                                                                                                       I        t             I
-H          -H         -H      '-H                          '(1          -H(H
        C)      )        U)     U)    C)U                        )                   U)          U)        U)      U)        U)
         >1  >1          >1     >1     >1                    >1           >1         >1              >
   )         Cl)         Cl)    Cl)    Cl)        Cl)        Cl)          Cl)        Cl)             Cl)       Cl)           Cl)
 >1          >0          >1     >1     >1         >1         >1           >1         >o              >         >1            >1
 U)          U)         cr)     U)     U)         U)         U)           U)                         U)()             U)          co
         Cd  Cd          CMC                                       d          dC                Cd        C     Cd        C           C
       o         4     04    0                   04        0                       0               0
              I           t                  I                                        II
     C V)   CTl)       CTl)   Cl)   t CTl)     ) C l)       C ,l)        Cl)    k   C4l)      -      Cl)   V   Cl)    V     CTl)
                   U'                                   Cl)        El-l C)                  C        )   Cl)  Cl)     ECl   )      E)   Cl ClE' ) 00
                   >0 >0 >0     >0     >0         >0         >:0          >0         >               >0         >             >
C)          C)         C)      C)      C)        C)   u     C)           C)     u  uC)      u        C)        C)           C)
 cn           In                      00                                   II                        m                     t

                          V    0        -       00      Ct      C
                   ci)   ci (1)         0)         i)    c)      c)      c)                       Ui       )      Cl)
                    U) C    )      U)     C)        )    C)      C)      C)           U)          C)          C)
                    >1          ,                >1      >1      >1      >1           >1          >
  C)   )            ()      C)         U)        U)      U)                           U)      C        )     C)     C)
         1          >1         1       >1        >1      >1              >1           >1          >
               1-   14      9-         <-         1-4    14      1-4                  <-          <4 1
            I-                                                        IV   II    IV    I      II
  C)   )           C)       C)         C)        C)              U))          W)      C)          C)          Cn
  Ci   i)           C)      Ci)        U))i              C)      U)                )      Ci)     Ci)         C
                       1    H1
                            >1         H11                       >1      H11          HH
                                                                                       >1
       Ui )         ci)     0)c                       )  0)      ci        i)c)                     0)        0
                    co                    II                         I                                                 Ia
     CCO CO        COr L    CO    V    CO    V-  CO      COrq V  COT     CO)(-    n   COT         CO     i    CO,  L
     0    0       000                 00         0      00      00      00           00          00          00
*~~                                    0)       zi0)    7)0     z)      4i )             )        c)           0

           '.00'.0        '.           '0
   (1)           (1)        a)           a)           (1)       (1)          a)            a)       )
    )    U)                        )    U)           U) co            U)             U)            U)
  U)              U          )U)                  U)        )                U)            U)      U)
        >            1       >             1>1        >1               >1                  >1      >1
        C)         )        U)          U            C))                    C)             U)      C)
  U)           en        en             Un            n       en          en              U)     en
             U)       U)    U)          U)            U)         U))                       U))
  >3             >           3           >              3>1          >1            >3                 >
        C)         )         )          C)            C          )          C)             C))
                                        I     I                                    I           y
  Q4             (          U            U(                    U            (n             U(
                                 E)             U- E) E)      E)             (I           a        a
       00                                   C        C)       m)          71                )
0O            00         00          0                                     0
                                                                          7\0           00       0
            a) a)          a)           a)            a)       a)            a)aZa

  -y 0
                                   Cli       cn    Cn                       C        C/)C                cn
         Cd    Il                                            UI)   C/)  CI)                        C/C   C/C    C
        XCV)              >1       U                         >1
        m I      >1     ui                                                                               i
       m                           mOl           -s          CO         Lt    -             C
                               I   cfO      Ct      C/)            C/)  cn      In                 CtO     Ct)
                         -c                                       -CI                              CO           c
                                                 CI ~)                 VIC)     C/)         r-       )   (n)    cI
                                                     IO                  I~      I
                    03                                       m-         CO                  Cd  ~        C
              CO           II                       I       <C                   3C        <               I
           CO                                     -V    I     I     I    I       f       I    I     t    UI      V
                                                   (I)       II)U   )     )        >1/      Cd)    C)    C)       /
                                        ~      UU UU              UU                       UU           u      u
                  O          U  I
         COI                         IV)II                                                                          i
                                   (n       V) C )    C)  )        Ct)  V)      C)     )           Cf)   V)      V)
                If)      C/)      If)       Ct)    I(n       cn)   C/) I.0      cn)         cn)       )  f)    If)
                                                                                                  CC    C)       /
               U        U         U        U      U         U     U    U       U           U      U     U      U
0  r
               t-         >       u        u      u
               U        U         U        U       U        U     U    U       U           U      U     U      U
                        cK
                        c4C       c          K     cLc             ''    <     ci             4   ci
                        C--       0-                              C      D     C             D    C            C-
                      U U         U

00       C\          C)       -         1     mA       zT        In        1        r        00        (ON        C)               I N       mf          'r        tfl
00       00          ON      ON       ON    ON        oll        O\        oNl               CN    ON ON                   C)   0           0             0::      0
 -                         -                                  -                                                   I -q         -q            N    -      C'        C-'4
                 C)   CA       cIn      V)                                  C)                                     C/)                                     U) C,
             ~~-'cr          (        (                             i                 CIS9
                              >    ~~~:                                                 >                         -0                    --                   I
                                              cn       C/)         C/)                CtO     (A        CtO                 cn      V)      -)c
             Cd       CO                    <d         CO         -I                  mO      mO                            cd               (:d
                                                            ~~)     C,)                                 V   ,) C)                   7,    )    ,)                   VJ)
                                                 CO        ) CO    CO                 CO)     CO        CO                  CO      CO       CO                     CO
          VO          C         O      C               ()          ),)      CO        C,)>1        >1              CO)>1        >1           C,)      V) >       C   ,)>
                        CO) CO)   CO)                                       CO)       C/O     (A
                                                                                              -)         n        C)                -C/      -              O
 cn       'A          cn       >->1                                        1> 1         1 -2       >       1 F-        ,    >       >1        F-             1
  -     ....        u-       F-                                     I            I                       I          I    I            I             I          I
              In                            n)            )       V)           )   nn            )    nn(A           )                n                    cn       V
C/      V)                                                                            CO      CO)       CO<                  O       CO                     O       C
u       u           u        u        0                                      )        )                                      )
    c-'                  cl                (9'     (9        (9        (9i   (9       (9       (9        (9        (94       (9      (9       (9         (          (9
(9      (9          (9       (9         I             u         u          u       u         u        u          u
    u   u           u                       u                   'C                 u
                                                                                   -u        u        u          u         u
           -~                          C      CO         O        CO        CO        C       CO         O        CO        CO       C       CO             O       C

                          00          C)           Cl  q      ~      t~   \
                          CD      C:)
                                  cCc      O'                   c
 cn
2~  2C
  I                                      -    F     -    -      F       - F
                               a- 2                      ja
               (93     (9  CO's
                           Cd
                           CO      z   c      c)     )           V)         c)
               I           C15
             VI            CO                            /)()          Ct    I
 CO   CO.                                                                   $M.
                            In          0)    ~V
                                              u    _C/   )       0)    0
                           CO      0)  -
<I                 CIO
u    F
          IX               CO
                                   0
              r-   00                 O        D0N               M  0      k
     -                            M   z                                7

            00       ON      ~   -   C  C~   ~00                                O
          -      Cl   Cl l    Cl   Cl     cl      Cl        lClC
                                                                       -     V)
                  >1 V)    >1                              >1                       0)
                                                           C',             C3   0i 0
                                               u              u
                                                                   CYf
      I.-
      cn                                        -ncn
                         0.0-D         (D        00
S-2 -          -            !iZ                      - - .  S.   -  ~    - .    --
                                                 VU                        UU
                                                                           r--  0l

     C    II                                    CCD
 C)   C/)C   -n     C
                                 CI)            C)
                                                C/)
                                                            cdn
     U                            a3       as
                                                        I-r
                           Il        I               F7
r4) c4C))       v-)    V)V      C-"C))nV)V C))
      C)
     C)      C)     C)            C)       C)  kC)I
                              -   ---           C)C)        C

                                      (-A0T                                  -        0
                  (9                       ItI
                              Hm
                   r-                      2:    V)            C/                      -o(
            (9                                                                        u
   0                 I
                         C/)                I-.             -S
                  (9
                  I"          -CS
                                                                                        n     >
            H/                    Ct)               ,
                                                               A
                                                               >1                       >1
                                                              u                       u
                  (9I                             -          H
                                                (9                   9   I            (9<
    I~                             I   nIV        I         .I              cn       -   I    V
       I                                              0-           I   )    >           n>
                                                  I             I/         IV        ,
                                                 C/)                              V)       cn
            (9                                    I                   I                 9
                             -l)           ->               IU)U
                                                         U)                            V)
                   Uf)                                         VI(9        (9(
                                 0                                   -u          H            H
                     7U)
                          u                     H
                                                ul           H                        H
                         0
C)       .-                                                                    v
               EI                               (9              9                     (

1.2      Methods of Use
[106]    The invention provides methods for treating or preventing gastrointestinal disorders and
increasing gastrointestinal motility in a subject in need thereof by administering an effective
amount of a GCC agonist or a formulation thereof to the subject. Non-limiting examples of
gastrointestinal disorders that can be treated or prevented according to the methods of the
invention include irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), non-ulcer dyspepsia, H. pylori infection
related ulcers, chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction, functional dyspepsia, colonic pseudo
obstruction, duodenogastric reflux, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ileus (e.g., post
operative ileus), gastroparesis, heartburn (high acidity in the GI tract), constipation (e.g.,
constipation associated with use of medications such as opioids, osteoarthritis drugs, or
osteoporosis drugs); post surgical constipation, constipation associated with neuropathic
disorders, Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis.
[107]    In one embodiment, the invention provides methods for treating or preventing
gastrointestinal motility disorder, irritable bowel syndrome, a functional gastrointestinal disorder,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, duodenogastric reflux, functional heartburn, dyspepsia,
functional dyspepsia, non-ulcer dyspepsia, gastroparesis, chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction,
colonic pseudo-obstruction, obesity, congestive heart failure, or benign prostatic hyperplasia.
[108]    In one embodiment, the invention provides methods for treating or preventing
constipation and/or increasing gastrointestinal motility in a subject in need thereof by
administering an effective amount of a GCC agonist or a formulation thereof to the subject.
Clinically accepted criteria that define constipation range from the frequency of bowel
movements, the consistency of feces and the ease of bowel movement. One common definition
of constipation is less than three bowel movements per week. Other definitions include
abnormally hard stools or defecation that requires excessive straining (Schiller 2001 Aliment
Pharmacol Ther 15:749-763). Constipation may be idiopathic (functional constipation or slow
transit constipation) or secondary to other causes including neurologic, metabolic or endocrine
disorders. These disorders include diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism,
hypocalcaemia, Multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord lesions, Neurofibromatosis,
autonomic neuropathy, Chagas disease, Hirschsprung disease and cystic fibrosis. Constipation
                                                  57

may also be the result of surgery or due to the use of drugs such as analgesics (like opioids),
antihypertensives, anticonvulsants, antidepressants, antispasmodics and antipsychotics.
[109]    In various embodiments, the constipation is associated with use of a therapeutic agent;
the constipation is associated with a neuropathic disorder; the constipation is postsurgical
constipation; the constipation is associated with a gastrointestinal disorder; the constipation is
idiopathic (functional constipation or slow transit constipation); the constipation is associated
with neuropathic, metabolic or endocrine disorder (e.g., diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism,
hyperthyroidism, hypocalcaem ia, Multiple Sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord lesions,
neurofibromatosis, autonomic neuropathy, Chagas disease, Hirschsprung disease or cystic
fibrosis). Constipation may also be the result of surgery or due to the use of drugs such as
analgesics (e.g., opioids), antihypertensives, anticonvulsants, antidepressants, antispasmodics
and antipsychotics.
[110]    In one embodiment, the invention provides methods for treating or preventing chronic
idiopathic constipation and increasing gastrointestinal motility in a subject in need thereof by
administering an effective amount of a GCC agonist or a formulation thereof to the subject.
[I 1I] The term "treating" as used herein refers to a reduction, a partial improvement,
amelioration, or a mitigation of at least one clinical symptom associated with the gastrointestinal
disorders being treated. The term "preventing" refers to an inhibition or delay in the onset or
progression of at least one clinical symptom associated with the gastrointestinal disorders to be
prevented. The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to an amount that provides some
improvement or benefit to the subject. In certain embodiments, an effective amount is an
amount that provides some alleviation, mitigation, and/or decrease in at least one clinical
symptom of the gastrointestinal disorder to be treated. In other embodiments, the effective
amount is the amount that provides some inhibition or delay in the onset or progression of at
least one clinical symptom associated with the gastrointestinal disorder to be prevented. The
therapeutic effects need not be complete or curative, as long as some benefit is provided to the
subject. The term "subject" preferably refers to a human subject but may also refer to a non
human primate or other mammal preferably selected from among a mouse, a rat, a dog, a cat, a
cow, a horse, or a pig.
                                                  58

[112]    The invention also provides methods for treating gastrointestinal cancer in a subject in
need thereof by administering an effective amount of a GCC agonist or a formulation thereof to
the subject. Non-limiting examples of gastrointestinal cancers that can be treated according to
the methods of the invention include gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer,
colorectal cancer, intestinal cancer, anal cancer, liver cancer, gallbladder cancer, or colon cancer.
[113]    The invention also provides methods for treating lipid metabolism disorders, biliary
disorders, inflammatory disorders, lung disorders, cancer, cardiac disorders including
cardiovascular disorders, eye disorders, oral disorders, blood disorders, liver disorders, skin
disorders, prostate disorders, endocrine disorders, and obesity.
[114]    Lipid metabolism disorders include, but are not limited to, dyslipidemia, hyperlipidemia,
hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, sitosterolemia, familial hypercholesterolemia,
xanthorna, combined hyperlipidemia, lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency, tangier
disease, abetalipoproteinemia, erectile dysfunction, fatty liver disease, and hepatitis.
[1 15]   Billary disorders include gallbladder disorders such as for example, gallstones, gall
bladder cancer cholangitis, or primary sclerosing cholangitis; or bile duct disorders such as for
example,cholecystitis, bile duct cancer or fascioliasis.
[116]    Inflammatory disorders include tissue and organ inflammation such as kidney
inflammation (e.g., nephritis), gastrointestinal system inflammation (e.g., Crohn's disease and
ulcerative colitis); necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC); pancreatic inflammation (e.g., pancreatis),
pancreatic insufficiency, lung inflammation (e.g., bronchitis or asthma) or skin inflammation
(e.g., psoriasis, eczema).
[117]    Lung Disorders include for example chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and
fibrosis.
[118]    Cancer includes tissue and organ carcinogenesis including metastases such as for
example gastrointestinal cancer, ( e.g., gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, pancreatic cancer
colorectal cancer, intestinal cancer, anal cancer, liver cancer, gallbladder cancer, or colon cancer;
lung cancer; thyroid cancer; skin cancer (e.g., melanoma); oral cancer; urinary tract cancer (e.g.
bladder cancer or kidney cancer); blood cancer (e.g. myeloma or leukemia) or prostate cancer.
                                                  59

[119]    Cardiac disorders include for example, congestive heart failure, trachea cardia
hypertension, high cholesterol, or high triglycerides. Cardiovascular disorders include for
example aneurysm, angina, atherosclerosis, cerebrovascular accident (stroke),
cerebrovasculardisease, congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction
(heart attack), or peripheral vascular disease.
[120]    Liver disorders include for example cirrhosis and fibrosis. In addition, GC-C agonist may
also be useful to facilitate liver regeneration in liver transplant patients. Eye disorders include
for example increased intra-ocular pressure, glaucoma, dry eyes, retinal degeneration, disorders
of tear glands or eye inflammation. Skin disorders include for example xerosis. Oral disorders
include for example dry mouth (xerostomia), Sjagren's syndrome, gum diseases (e.g.,
periodontal disease), or salivary gland duct blockage or malfunction. Prostate disorders include
for example benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Endocrine disorders include for example
diabetes mellitus, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, and cystic fibrosis.
1.2.1    Therapeutically Effective Dosages
[121]    Disorders are treated, prevented or alleviated by administering to a subject, e.g., a
mammal such as a human in need thereof, a therapeutically effective dose of a GCC agonist
peptide. The present invention is based in part on the unexpected results of clinical trials in
humans which demonstrated that the formulations of the invention are therapeutically effective at
much lower doses than predicted based on animal studies. In accordance with one aspect of the
invention, the therapeutically effective dose is between 0.01 milligrams (mg) and 10 mg per unit
dose. The term "unit dose" refers to a single drug delivery entity, e.g., a tablet, capsule, solution,
inhalation, controlled release or extended release formulation (e.g. MMX@ technology of
Cosmo Pharmaceuticals). In one embodiment, the effective dose is between 0.01 mg and 9 mg.
In another embodiment, the effective dose is between 0.01 mg and 5 mg. In another
embodiment, the effective dose is between 0.01 mg and 3 mg. In another embodiment, the
effective dose is between 0.10 mg and 5 mg. In another embodiment, the effective dose is
between 0.10 mg and 3 mg. In one embodiment, the unit dose is .01 mg, .05 mg, 0.1 mg, 0.2 mg,
0.3 mg, 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg, 1.5 mg, 2.0 mg, 2.5 mg, 3.0 mg, 5 mg, or 10 mg. In one embodiment,
the unit dose is 0.3 mg, 1.0 mg, 3.0 mg, 9.0 mg, or 9.5 mg.
                                                    60

[122]    The GCC agonist peptides may be in a pharmaceutical composition in unit dose form,
together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The amount of peptide
present should be sufficient to have a positive therapeutic effect when administered to a patient.
What constitutes a "positive therapeutic effect" will depend upon the particular condition being
treated and will include any significant improvement in a condition readily recognized by one of
skill in the art.
[123]    The GCC agonists for use in the methods described above are preferably administered
orally. Dosage forms include solutions, suspensions, emulsions, tablets, and capsules.
[124]    The total daily dose can be administered to the patient in a single dose, or in multiple sub
doses. Typically, sub-doses can be administered two to six times per day, preferably two to four
times per day, and even more preferably two to three times per day. Preferably, a single daily
dose is administered.
[125]    The GCC agonists may be administered as either the sole active agent or in combination
with one or more additional active agents. In all cases, additional active agents should be
administered at a dosage that is therapeutically effective using the existing art as a guide. The
GCC agonists may be administered in a single composition or sequentially with the one or more
additional active agents. In one embodiment, the GCC agonist is administered in combination
with one or more inhibitors of cGMP dependent phosphodiesterase such as suldinac sulfone,
zaprinast, motapizone, vardenafil, or sildenifil. In another embodiment, the GCC agonist is
administered in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents. In another
embodiment, the GCC agonist is administered in combination with one or more or anti
inflammatory drugs such as steroids or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), such as
aspirin.
[126]    Combination therapy can be achieved by administering two or more agents, e.g., a GCC
agonist peptide described herein and another compound, each of which is formulated and
administered separately, or by administering two or more agents in a single formulation. Other
combinations are also encompassed by combination therapy. For example, two agents can be
formulated together and administered in conjunction with a separate formulation containing a
third agent. While the two or more agents in the combination therapy can be administered
                                                  61

simultaneously, they need not be. For example, administration of a first agent (or combination of
agents) can precede administration of a second agent (or combination of agents) by minutes,
hours, days, or weeks. Thus, the two or more agents can be administered within minutes of each
other or within 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, or 24 hours of each other or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 12, 14 days of each other or within 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 weeks of each other. In some
cases even longer intervals are possible. While in many cases it is desirable that the two or more
agents used in a combination therapy be present in within the patient's body at the same time,
this need not be so.
[127]   The GCC agonist peptides described herein may be combined with phosphodiesterase
inhibitors, e.g., sulindae sulfone, Zaprinast, sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil to further enhance
levels of cGMP in the target tissues or organs.
[128]   Combination therapy can also include two or more administrations of one or more of the
agents used in the combination. For example, if agent X and agent Y are used in a combination,
one could administer them sequentially in any combination one or more times, e.g., in the order
X-Y- X, X-X-Y, Y-X-Y,Y-Y-X,X-X-Y-Y,             etc.
1.2.2   Exemplary Agents for Combination Therapy
[129]   The GCC agonist formulations of the invention may be administered alone or in
combination with one or more additional therapeutic agents as part of a therapeutic regimen for
the treatment or prevention of a gastrointestinal disease or disorder. In some embodiments, the
GCC agonist formulation comprises one or more additional therapeutic agents. In other
embodiments, the GCC agonist is formulated separately from the one or more additional
therapeutic agents. In accordance with this embodiment, the GCC agonist is administered either
simultaneously, sequentially, or at a different time than the one or more additional therapeutic
agents. In one embodiment, the GCC agonist formulation is administered in combination with
one or more additional therapeutic agents selected from the group consisting of
phosphodiesterase inhibitors, cyclic nucleotides (such as cGMP and cAMP), a laxative (such as
SENNA or METAMUCIL), a stool softner, an anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha therapy for IBD
(such as REMICADE, ENBREL, or HUMIRA), and anti-inflammatory drugs (such as COX-2
inhibitors, sulfasalazine, 5-ASA derivatives and NSAIDS). In certain embodiments, the GCC
                                                     62

agonist formulation is administered in combination with an effective dose of an inhibitor of
cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase (cGMP-PDE) either concurrently or sequentially with said
GCC agonist. cGMP-PDE inhibitors include, for example, suldinac sulfone, zaprinast,
motapizone, vardenifil, and sildenafil. In another embodiment, the GCC agonist formulation is
administered in combination with inhibitors of cyclic nucleotide transporters. Further examples
of therapeutic agents that may be administered in combination with the GCC agonist
formulations of the invention are given in the following sections.
                        1.2.2.1 Agents to Treat Gastrointestinal Cancers
[130]   The GCC agonist formulations described herein can be used in combination with one or
more antitumor agents including but not limited to alkylating agents, epipodophyllotoxins,
nitrosoureas, anti-metabo Iites, vinca alkaloids, anthracycline antibiotics, nitrogen mustard
agents, and the like. Particular antitumor agents include tamoxifen, taxol, etoposide, and 5
fluorouracil. In one embodiment, the GCC agonist formulations are used in combination with an
antiviral agent or a monoclonal antibody.
[131]   Non-limiting examples of antitumor agents that can be used in combination with the
GCC agonist formulations of the invention for the treatment of colon cancer include anti
proliferative agents, agents for DNA modification or repair, DNA synthesis inhibitors,
DNA/RNA transcription regulators, RNA processing inhibitors, agents that affect protein
expression, synthesis and stability, agents that affect protein localization or their ability to exert
their physiological action, agents that interfere with protein-protein or protein-nucleic acid
interactions, agents that act by RNA interference, receptor binding molecules of any chemical
nature (including small molecules and antibodies), targeted toxins, enzyme activators, enzyme
inhibitors, gene regulators, HSP-90 inhibitors, molecules interfering with microtubules or other
cytoskeletal components or cell adhesion and motility, agents for phototherapy, and therapy
adjuncts.
[132]           Representative anti-proliferative agents include N-acetyl-D-sphingosine (C.sub.2
ceramide), apigenin, berberine chloride, dichloromethylenediphosphonic acid disodium salt, loe
emodine, emodin, HA 14-1, N-hexanoyl-D-sphingosine (C.sub.6 ceramide), 7b
hydroxycholesterol, 25-hydroxycholesterol, hyperforin, parthenolide, and rapamycin.
                                                  63

         Representative agents for DNA modification and repair include aphidicolin, bleomycin
sulfate, carboplatin, carmustine, chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide monohydrate,
cyclophosphamide monohydrate ISOPAC.RTM., cis-diammineplatinum(II) dichloride
(Cisplatin), esculetin, melphalan, methoxyamine hydrochloride, mitomycin C, mitoxantrone
dihydrochloride, oxaliplatin, and streptozocin.
 [133]   Representative DNA synthesis inhibitors include (.+-.)amethopterin (methotrexate), 3
amino-1,2,4-benzotriazine 1,4-dioxide, aminopterin, cytosine b-D-arabinofurdnoside (Ara-C),
cytosine b-D-arabinofuranoside (Ara-C) hydrochloride, 2-fluoroadenine-9-b-D
arabinofuranoside (Fludarabine des-phosphate; F-ara-A), 5-fluoro-5'-deoxyuridinc, 5
fluorouracil, ganciclovir, hydroxyurea, 6-mercaptopurine, and 6-thioguanine.
[134]    Representative DNA/RNA transcription regulators include actinomycin D, daunorubicin
hydrochloride, 5,6-dichlorobenzimidazole 1-b-D-ribofuranoside, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
homoharringtonine, and idarubicin hydrochloride.
[135]    Representative enzyme activators and inhibitors include forskolin, DL
aminoglutethimide, apicidin, Bowman-Birk Inhibitor, butein, (S)-(+)-camptothecin, curcumin, (
)-deguelin, (-)-depudecin, doxycycline hyclate, etoposide, formestane, fostriecin sodium salt,
hispidin, 2-imino-1-imidazolidineacetic acid (Cyclocreatine), oxamflatin, 4-phenylbutyric acid,
roscovitine, sodium valproate, trichostatin A, tyrphostin AG 34, tyrphostin AG 879, urinary
trypsin inhibitor fragment, valproic acid (2-propylpentanoic acid), and XK469.
[136]    Representative gene regulators include 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, 5-azacytidine,
cholecalciferol (Vitamin D3), ciglitizone, cyproterone acetate, 15-deoxy-D.sup.12,14
prostaglandin J.sub.2, epitestosterone, flutamide, glycyrrhizic acid ammonium salt
(glycyrrhizin), 4-hydroxytamoxifen, mifepristone, procainamide hydrochloride, raloxifene
hydrochloride, all trans-retinal (vitamin A aldehyde), retinoic acid (vitamin A acid), 9-cis
retinoic acid, 13-cis-retinoic acid, retinoic acid p-hydroxyanilide, retinol (Vitamin A), tamoxifen,
tamoxifen citrate salt, tetradecylthioacetic acid, and troglitazone.
[137]    Representative HSP-90 inhibitors include 17-(al lylamino)-1 7-demethoxygeldanamycin
and geldanamycin.
                                                   64

 [138]   Representative microtubule inhibitors include colchicines, dolastatin 15, nocodazole,
taxanes and in particular paclitaxel, podophyllotoxin, rhizoxin, vinblastine sulfate salt,
vincristine sulfate salt, and vindesine sulfate salt and vinorelbine (Navelbine) ditartrate salt.
 [139]   Representative agents for performing phototherapy include photoactive porphyrin rings,
hypericin, 5-methoxypsoralen, 8-methoxypsoralen, psoralen and ursodeoxycholic acid.
[140]    Representative agents used as therapy adjuncts include amifostine, 4-amino-1,8
naphthalimide, brefeldin A, cimetidine, phosphomycin disodium salt, leuprolide (leuprorelin)
acetate salt, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LIH-RH) acetate salt, lectin, papaverine
hydrochloride, pifithrin-a, (-)-scopolamine hydrobromide, and thapsigargin.
[141]    The agents can also be anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) agents, as such
are known in the art. Several antibodies and small molecules are currently in clinical trials or
have been approved that function by inhibiting VEGF, such as Avastin (Bevacizumab), SU5416,
SUI 1248 and BAY 43-9006. The agents can also be directed against growth factor receptors
such as those of the EGF/Erb-B family such as EGF Receptor (Iressa or Gefitinib, and Tarceva
or Erlotinib), Erb-B2, receptor (Herceptin or Trastuzumab), other receptors (such as Rituximab
or Rituxan/MabThera), tyrosine kinases, non-receptor tyrosine kinases, cellular serine/threonine
kinases (including MAP kinases), and various other proteins whose deregulation contribute to
oncogenesis (such as small/Ras family and large/heterotrimeric G proteins). Several antibodies
and small molecules targeting those molecules are currently at various stages of development
(including approved for treatment or in clinical trials).
[142]    In a preferred embodiment, the invention provides a method for treating colon cancer in a
subject in need thereof by-administering to the subject a GCC agonist formulation in
combination with one or more antitumor agent selected from the group consisting of paclitaxel,
docetaxel, tamoxifen, vinorelbine, gemcitabine, cisplatin, etoposide, topotecan, irinotecan,
anastrozole, rituximab, trastuzumab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, gentuzumab, carboplatin,
interferons, and doxorubicin. In a particular embodiment the antitumor agent is paclitaxel. In a
further embodiment, the method further comprises an antitumor agent selected from the group
consisting of 5-FU, doxorubicin, vinorelbine, cytoxan, and cisplatin.
                                                   65

                       1.2.2.2 Agents that Treat Crohn's Disease
[143]   In one embodiment, a GCC agonist formulation of the invention is administered as part
of a combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of
Crohn's disease. Non-limiting examples of the one or more additional therapeutic agents include
sulfasalazine and other mesalamine-containing drugs, generally known as 5-ASA agents, such as
Asacol, Dipentum, or Pentasa, or infliximab (REMICADE). In certain embodiments, the one or
more additional agents is a corticosteroid or an immunosuppressive agent such as 6
mercaptopurine or azathioprine. In another embodiment, the one or more additional agents is an
antidiarrheal agent such as diphenoxylate, loperamide, or codeine.
                        1.2.2.3 Agents that Treat Ulcerative Colitis
[144]   In one embodiment, a GCC agonist formulation of the invention is administered as part
of a combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of
ulcerative colitis. The agents that are used to treat ulcerative colitis overlap with those used to
treat Chrohn's Disease. Non-limiting examples of the one or more additional therapeutic agents
that can be used in combination with a GCC agonist formulation of the invention include
aminosalicylates (drugs that contain 5-aminosalicyclic acid (5-ASA)) such as sulfasalazine,
olsalazine, mesalamine, and balsalazide. Other therapeutic agents that can be used include
corticosteroids, such as prednisone and hydrocortisone, immunomodulators, such as
azathioprine, 6-mercapto-purine (6-MP), cytokines, interleukins, and lymphokines, and anti
TNF-alpha agents, including the thiazolidinediones or glitazones such as rosiglitazone and
pioglitazone. in one emobidment, the one or more additional therapeutic agents includes both
cyclosporine A and 6-MP or azathioprine for the treatment of active, severe ulcerative colitis.
                        1.2.2.4 Agents that Treat Constipation/Irritable Bowel Syndrome
[145]   In one embodiment, a GCC agonist formulation of the invention is administered as part
of a combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of
constipation, such as that associated with irritable bowel syndrome. Non-limiting examples of
the one or more additional therapeutic agents include laxatives such as SENNA, MIRALAX,
LACTULOSE, PEG, or calcium polycarbophil), stool softeners (such as mineral oil or
                                                  66

COLACE), bulking agents (such as METAMUCIL or bran), agents such as ZELNORM (also
called tegaserod), and anticholinergic medications such as BENTYL and LEVSIN.
                       1.2.2.5 Agents for the Treatment of Postoperative Ileus
[146]   In one embodiment, a GCC agonist formulation of the invention is administered as part
of a combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of
postoperative ileus. Non-limiting examples of the one or more additional therapeutic agents
include ENTEREG (alvimopan; formerly called ado lor/ ADL 8-2698), conivaptan, and related
agents describes in US 6,645,959.
                       1.2.2.6 Anti-obesity agents
[147]    In one embodiment, a GCC agonist formulation of the invention is administered as part
of a combination therapy with one or more additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of
obesity. Non-limiting examples of the one or more additional therapeutic agents include I 1p
HSD-I (11-beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type 1) inhibitors, such as BVT 3498, BVT
2733, 3-(l-adamantyl)-4-ethyl-5-(ethylthio)- 4H-1,2,4-triazole, 3-(l-adamantyl)-5-(3,4,5
trimethoxyphenyl)-4-methyl-4H-l,2,4-triazole, 3- adamantanyl-4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,3a
decahydro-l,2,4-triazolo[4,3-a][I l]annulene, and those compounds disclosed in WOOl/90091,
WOO 1/90090, WOO 1/90092 and W002/072084; 5HT antagonists such as those in
W003/037871, WO03/037887, and the like; 5HTIa modulators such as carbidopa, benserazide
and those disclosed in US6207699, WO03/03 1439, and the like; 5HT2c (serotonin receptor 2c)
agonists, such as BVT933, DPCA37215, lK264, PNU 22394, WAYI61503, R-1065, SB 243213
(Glaxo Smith Kline) and YM 348 and those disclosed in US3914250, WOOO/77010,
W002/36596, WO02/48124, W002/10169, WOO 1/66548, WO02/44152, WO02/51844,
WO02/40456, and W002/40457; 5HT6 receptor modulators, such as those in WO03/030901,
WO03/035061, W003/039547, and the like; acyl-estrogens, such as oleoyl-estrone, disclosed in
del Mar-Grasa, M. et al, Obesity Research, 9:202-9 (2001) and Japanese Patent Application No.
JP 2000256190; anorectic bicyclic compounds such as 1426 (Aventis) and 1954 (Aventis), and
the compounds disclosed in WOOO/18749, WOo1/32638, WOo1/62746, WOOl/62747, and
WOO3/0 15769; CB I (cannabinoid-I receptor) antagonist/inverse agonists such as rimonabant
                                                67

(Acomplia; Sanofi), SR-147778 (Sanofi), SR-141716 (Sanofi), BAY 65-2520 (Bayer), and SLV
319 (Solvay), and those disclosed in patent publications US4973587, US5013837, US5081122,
US5112820, US5292736, US5532237, US5624941, US6028084, US6509367, US6509367,
W096/33159, W097/29079, W098/31227, W098/33765, W098/37061, W098/41519,
W098/43635, W098/43636, W099/02499, WOOO/10967, WOOO/10968, WOOi/09120,
WOO1/58869, WO01/64632, WO01/64633, Woo1/64634, WOO1/70700, WOO1/96330,
W002/076949, WO03/006007, W003/007887, WO03/020217, WO03/026647, WO3/026648,
WO03/027069, W003/027076, WO03/027114, WO03/037332, WO03/040107, W003/086940,
W003/084943 and EP658546; CCK-A (cholecystokinin-A) agonists, such as AR-R 15849, GI
 181771 (GSK), JMV-180, A- 71378, A-71623 and SR146131 (Sanofi), and those described in
US5739106; CNTF (Ciliary neurotrophic factors), such as GI- 181771 (Glaxo-SmithKline), SRI
46131 (Sanofi Synthelabo), butabindide, PD 170,292, and PD 149164 (Pfizer); CNTF
derivatives, such as Axokine@ (Regeneron), and those disclosed in W094/09 134, W098/22128,
and W099/438 13; dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DP-IV) inhibitors, such as isoleucine thiazolidide,
valine pyrrolidide, NVP-DPP728, LAF237, P93/01, P 3298, TSL 225 (tryptophyl-l,2,3,4
tetrahydroisoquinoline-3- carboxylic acid; disclosed by Yarnada et al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem.
Lett. 8 (1998) 1537-1540), TMC-2A/2B/2C, CD26 inhibtors, FE 999011, P9310/K364, VIP
0177, SDZ 274-444, 2- cyanopyrrolidides and 4-cyanopyrrolidides as disclosed by Ashworth et
al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem. Lett., Vol. 6, No. 22, pp 1163-1166 and 2745-2748 (1996) and the
compounds disclosed patent publications. W099/3 8501, W099/46272, W099/67279
(Probiodrug), W099/67278 (Probiodrug), W099/61431 (Probiodrug), W002/083128,
W002/062764, W003/000180, W003/000181, WO03/000250, WOO3/002530, W003/002531,
W003/002553, W003/002593, WO03/004498, WO03/004496,WO03/0 17936, W003/024942,
WO03/024965, W003/033524, W003/037327 and EPI1258476; growth hormone secretagogue
receptor agonists/antagonists, such as NN703, hexarelin, MK- 0677 (Merck), SM-130686, CP
424391 (Pfizer), LY 444,711 (Eli Lilly), L-692,429 and L- 163,255, and such as those disclosed
in USSN 09/662448, US provisional application 60/203335, US6358951, US2002049196,
US2002/022637, WO01/56592 and W002/32888; H3 (histamine H3) antagonist/inverse
agonists, such as thioperamide, 3-(IH-imidazol-4- yl)propyl N-(4-pentenyl)carbamate),
clobenpropit, iodophenpropit, imoproxifan, GT2394 (Gliatech), and A331440, 0-[3-(IH
 inidazol-4-yl)propanol]carbamates (Kiec-Kononowicz, K. et al., Pharmazie, 55:349-55 (2000)),
                                                68

piperidine-containing histamine H3-receptor antagonists (Lazewska, D. et al., Pharmazie,
56:927-32 (2001), benzophenone derivatives and related compounds (Sasse, A. et al., Arch.
Pharm.(Weinheim) 334:45-52 (2001)), substituted N- phenylcarbamates (Reidemeister, S. et al.,
Pharmazie, 55:83-6 (2000)), and proxifan derivatives (Sasse, A. et al., J. Med. Chem. 43:3335-43
(2000)) and histamine H3 receptor modulators such as those disclosed in WO02/15905,
WO03/024928 and WO03/024929; leptin derivatives, such as those disclosed in US5552524,
US5552523, US5552522, US5521283, W096/235 13, W096/23514, W096/23515,
W096/23516, W096/23517, W096/23518, W096/235 19, and W096/23520; leptin, including
recombinant human leptin (PEG-OB, Hoffman La Roche) and recombinant methionyl human
leptin (Amgen); lipase inhibitors, such as tetrahydrolipstatin (orlistat/Xenical@), Triton WRl
339, RHC80267, lipstatin, teasaponin, diethylumbelliferyl phosphate, FL-386, WAY-121898,
Bay-N-3 176, valilactone, esteracin, ebelactone A, ebelactone B, and RHC 80267, and those
disclosed in patent publications WOO1/77094, US4598089, US44528 13, USUS5512565,
US5391571, US5602151, US4405644, US4189438, and US4242453; lipid metabolism
modulators such as maslinic acid, erythrodiol, ursolic acid uvaol, betulinic acid, betulin, and the
like and compounds disclosed in W003/01 1267; Mc4r (melanocortin 4 receptor) agonists, such
as CHIR86036 (Chiron), ME- 10142, ME-10145, and HS-131 (Melacure), and those disclosed in
PCT publication Nos. W099/64002, WOOO/74679, WOO 1/991752, WOO 1/25192, WOO
 1/52880, WOO 1/74844, WOO 1/70708, WOOI/70337, WOOI/91752, WO02/059095,
W002/059107, WO02/059108, W002/059117, WO02/06276, WO02/12166, WO02/11715,
W002/12178, WO02/15909, W002/38544, WO02/068387, WO02/068388, W002/067869,
W002/081430, WO03/06604, WO03/007949, W003/009847, WO03/009850, WO03/013509,
and W03/03 1410; Mc5r (melanocortin 5 receptor) modulators, such as those disclosed in
W097/1 9952, WOOO/15826, WOO0/15790, US20030092041; melanin-concentrating hormone I
receptor (MCHR) antagonists, such as T-226296 (Takeda), SB 568849, SNP-7941 (Synaptic),
and those disclosed in patent publications WOO 1/21169, WOO 1/82925, WOO 1/87834,
WO02/051809, WO02/06245, WO02/076929, W002/076947, W002/04433, WO02/51809,
W002/083134, W002/094799, WO03/004027, WO03/13574, WO03/15769, WO03/028641,
W003/035624, WO03/033476, WO03/033480, JP13226269, and JP1437059; mGluR5
modulators such as those disclosed in WO03/029210, WO03/047581, W003/048 137,
WO03/051315, WO03/051833, WO03/053922, W003/059904, and the like; serotoninergic
                                                 69

agents, such as fenfluramine (such as Pondimin@ (Benzeneethanamine, N-ethyl- alpha-methyl
3-(trifluoromethyl)-, hydrochloride), Robbins), dexfenfluramine (such as Redux@
(Benzeneethanamine, N-ethyl-alpha-methyl-3 -(trifluoromethyl)-, hydrochloride), Interneuron)
and sibutramine ((Meridia, Knoll/ReductilTM) including racemic mixtures, as optically pure
isomers (+) and (-), and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, solvents, hydrates, clathrates and
prodrugs thereof including sibutramine hydrochloride monohydrate salts thereof, and those
compounds disclosed in US4746680, US4806570, and US5436272, US20020006964, WOO
1/27068, and WOO 1/62341; NE (norepinephrine) transport inhibitors, such as GW 320659,
despiramine, talsupram, and nomifensine; NPY I antagonists, such as BIBP3226, J-1 15814,
BIBO 3304, LY-357897, CP-671906, GI- 264879A, and those disclosed in US6001836,
W096/14307, WO01/23387, WO99/51600, WOO1/85690, WOO1/85098, WOO1/85173, and
WOO 1/89528; NPY5 (neuropeptide Y Y5) antagonists, such as 152,804, GW-569180A, GW
594884A, GW- 587081X, GW-548118X, FR235208, FR226928, FR240662, FR252384,
1229U91, GI-264879A, CGP71683A, LY-377897, LY-366377, PD-160170, SR- 120562A, SR
120819A, JCF-104, and H409/22 and those compounds disclosed in patent publications
US6140354, US6191160, US6218408, US6258837, US6313298, US6326375, US6329395,
US6335345, US6337332, US6329395, US6340683, EPO1010691, EP-01044970, W097/19682,
W097/20820, W097/20821, W097/20822, W097/20823, W098/27063, WOOO/107409,
WOOO/1 85714, WOOO/185730, WOOO/64880, WOOO/68197, WOOO/69849, WO/01 13917,
WOOI/09120, WOO1/14376, WOOI/85714, WO01/85730, WO01/07409, WOO1/02379,
WOOl/23388, WO01/23389, WOO 1/44201, WOOI/62737, WOOI/62738, WOOI/09120,
WO02/20488, WO02/22592, WO02/48152, WO02/49648, WO02/051806, W002/094789,
WO03/009845, WO03/014083, WO03/022849, W003/028726 and Norman et al, J. Med. Chem.
43:4288-43 12 (2000); opioid antagonists, such as nalmefene (REVEX @), 3-methoxynaltrexone,
methylnaltrexone, naloxone, and naltrexone (e.g. PT901; Pain Therapeutics, Inc.) and those
disclosed in US20050004155 and WOOO/21509; orexin antagonists, such as SB-334867-A and
those disclosed in patent publications WOO]/96302, WOO1/68609, WO02/44172, W002/51232,
WO02/51838, WO02/089800, W002/090355, WO03/023561, W003/032991, and
WO03/037847; PDE inhibitors (e.g. compounds which slow the degradation of cyclic AMP
(cAMP) and/or cyclic GMP (cGMP) by inhibition of the phosphodiesterases, which can lead to a
relative increase in the intracellular concentration of cAMP and cGMP; possible PDE inhibitors
                                                   70

are primarily those substances which are to be numbered among the class consisting of the PDE3
inhibitors, the class consisting of the PDE4 inhibitors and/or the class consisting of the PDE5
inhibitors, in particular those substances which can be designated as mixed types of PDE3/4
inhibitors or as mixed types of PDE3/4/5 inhibitors) such as those disclosed in patent
publications DE1470341, DE2108438, DE2123328, DE2305339, DE2305575, DE2315801,
DE2402908, DE2413935, DE2451417, DE2459090, DE2646469, DE2727481, DE2825048,
DE2837161, DE2845220, DE2847621, DE2934747, DE3021792, DE3038166, DE3044568,
EP000718, EP0008408, EP0010759, EP0059948, EP0075436, EP0096517, EPOI 12987, EPOI
16948, EP0150937, EPO158380, EPO161632, EPO161918, EP0167121, EP0199127, EP0220044,
EP0247725, EP0258191, EP0272910, EP0272914, EP0294647, EP0300726, EP0335386,
EP0357788, EPO389282, EP0406958, EP0426180, EP0428302, EP043581 1,EP0470805,
EP0482208, EP0490823, EP0506194, EP051865, EP0527117, EP0626939, EP0664289,
EP0671389, EP0685474, EP0685475, EP0685479, JP92234389, JP94329652, JP95010875,
US4963561, US5141931, W09117991, W09200968, W09212961, W09307146, W09315044,
W09315045, W09318024, W09319068, W09319720, W09319747, W09319749,
W09319751, W09325517, W09402465, W09406423, W09412461, W09420455,
W09422852, W09425437, W09427947, W09500516, W09501980, W09503794,
W09504045, W09504046, W09505386, W09508534, W09509623, W09509624,
W09509627, W09509836, W095 14667, W09514680, W09514681, W09517392,
W09517399, W09519362, W09522520, W09524381, W09527692, W09528926,
W09535281, W09535282, W09600218, W09601825, W09602541, W09611917,
DE3 142982, DEl 116676, DE2162096, EP0293063, EP0463756, EP0482208, EP0579496,
EP0667345 US6331543, US20050004222 (including those disclosed in formulas I- X111 and
paragraphs 37-39, 85-0545 and 557-577), W09307124, EP0163965, EP0393500, EP0510562,
EP0553174, W09501338 and W09603399, as well as PDE5 inhibitors (such as RX-RA-69,
SCH-51866, KT-734, vesnarinone, zaprinast, SKF-96231, ER-21355, BF/GP-385, NM-702 and
sildenafil (Viagra TM)), PDE4 inhibitors (such as etazolate, IC163 197, RP73401, imazolidinone
(RO-20-1724), MEM 1414 (R1533/R1500; Pharmacia Roche), denbufylline, rolipram,
oxagrelate, nitraquazone, Y-590, DH-6471, SKF-94120, motapizone, lixazinone, indolidan,
olprinone, atizoram, KS-506-G, dipamfylline, BMY-43351, atizoram, arofylline, filaminast,
PDB-093, UCB-29646, CDP-840, SKF-107806, piclamilast, RS-17597, RS-25344- 000, SB
                                                 71

207499, TIBENELAST, SB-210667, SB-21 1572, SB-21 1600, SB-212066, SB-212179, GW
3600, CDP-840, mopidamol, anagrelide, ibudilast, amrinone, pimobendan, cilostazol, quazinone
and N-(3,5-dichloropyrid-4-yl)-3-cyclopropylmethoxy4-difluoromethoxybenzamide, PDE3
inhibitors (such as ICI153, 100, bemorandane (RWJ 22867), MCI-154, UD-CG 212, sulmazole,
ampizone, cilostamide, carbazeran, piroximone, imazodan, CI-93 0, siguazodan, adibendan,
saterinone, SKF-95654, SDZ-MKS-492, 349-U-85, emoradan, EMD-53998, EMD- 57033, NSP
306, NSP-307, revizinone, NM-702, WIN-62582 and WIN-63291, enoximone and milrinone,
PDE3/4 inhibitors (such as benafentrine, trequinsin, ORG-30029, zardaverine, L- 686398, SDZ
ISQ-844, ORG-20241, EMD-54622, and tolafentrine) and other PDE inhibitors (such as
vinpocetin, papaverine, enprofylline, cilomilast, fenoxinone, pentoxifylline, roflumilast,
tadalafil(Cialis@), theophylline, and vardenafil(Levitra@); Neuropeptide Y2 (NPY2) agonists
include but are not limited to: polypeptide YY and fragments and variants thereof (e.g. YY3-36
(PYY3-36 )(N. Engl. J. Med. 349:941, 2003; IKPEAPGE DASPEELNRY YASLRHYLNL
VTRQRY (SEQ ID NO:XXX)) and PYY agonists such as those disclosed in WO02/47712,
W003/026591, W003/057235, and W003/027637; serotonin reuptake inhibitors, such as,
paroxetine, fluoxetine (ProzacTM), fluvoxamine, sertraline, citalopram, and imipramine, and
those disclosed in US6162805, US6365633, W003/00663, WOO 1/27060, and WOO 1/162341;
thyroid hormone    P agonists, such as KB-261 I (KaroBioBMS), and those disclosed in
WO02/15845, W097/21993, W099/00353, GB98/284425, U.S. Provisional Application No.
60/183,223, and Japanese Patent Application No. JP 2000256190; UCP-I (uncoupling protein-1),
2, or 3 activators, such as phytanic acid, 4-[(E)-2-(5, 6,7,8- tetrahydro-5,5,8,8-tetramethyl-2
napthalenyl)-l-propenyl]benzoic acid (TTNPB), retinoic acid, and those disclosed in
W099/00123; P3 (beta adrenergic receptor 3) agonists, such as AJ9677/TAK677
(Dainippon/Takeda), L750355 (Merck), CP331648 (Pfizer), CL-316,243, SB 418790, BRL
37344, L-796568, BMS-196085, BRL-35135A, CGPI2177A, BTA-243, GW 427353,
Trecadrine, Zeneca D7114, N-5984 (Nisshin Kyorin), LY-377604 (Lilly), SR 59119A, and those
disclosed in US5541204, US5770615, US5491 134, US5776983, US488064, US5705515,
US5451677, W094/18161, WO95/29159, W097/46556, W098/04526 and W098/32753,
WOO1/74782, WO02/32897, WO03/0141 13, WO03/016276, W003/016307, WO03/024948,
WO03/024953 and W003/037881; noradrenergic agents including, but not limited to,
diethylpropion (such as Tenuate@ (1- propanone, 2-(diethylamino)-l -phenyl-, hydrochloride),
                                                  72

Merrell), dextroamphetamine (also known as dextroamphetamine sulfate, dexamphetamine,
dexedrine, Dexampex, Ferndex, Oxydess 1I, Robese, Spancap #1), mazindol ((or 5-(p
chlorophenyl)-2,5-dihydro-3H- imidazo[2,l-a]isoindol-5-ol) such as Sanorex@, Novartis or
Mazanor@, Wyeth Ayerst), phenylpropanolamine (or Benzenemethanol, alpha-(l-aminoethyl)-,
hydrochloride), phentermine ((or Phenol, 3-[[4,5-duhydro-IH-imidazol-2-yl)ethyl](4
methylpheny-l)amino], monohydrochloride) such as Adipex-P@, Lemmon, FASTIN@, Smith
Kline Beecham and lonamin@, Medeva), phendimetrazine ((or (2S,3S)-3,4-Dimethyl
2phenylmorpholine L-(+)- tartrate (1 :1)) such as Metra@ (Forest) , Plegine (Wyeth- Ay erst),
Prelu-2@ (Boehringer Ingelheim), and Statobex (Lemmon), phendamine tartrate (such as
Thephorin (2,3,4,9- Tetrahydro-2-methyl-9-phenyl-lH-indenol[2,1-c]pyridine L-(+)-tartrate (1
:1)), Hoffmann- LaRoche), methamphetamine (such as Desoxyn, Abbot ((S)-N, (alpha)
dirnethylbenzeneethanamine hydrochloride)), and phendimetrazine tartrate (such as Bontril
Slow-Release Capsules, Amarin (-3 ,4-Dimethyl-2-phenylmorpholine Tartrate); fatty acid
oxidation upregulator/inducers such as Famoxin (Genset); monamine oxidase inhibitors
including but not limited to befloxatone, moclobemide, brofaromine, phenoxathine, esuprone,
befol, toloxatone, pirlindol, amiflamine, sercloremine, bazinaprine, lazabemide, milacemide,
caroxazone and other certain compounds as disclosed by WOO1/12176; and other anti-obesity
agents such as 5HT-2 agonists, ACC (acetyl-CoA carboxylase) inhibitors such as those described
in WO03/072197, alpha-lipoic acid (alpha-LA), AOD9604, appetite suppressants such as those
in W003/40107, ATL-962 (Alizyme PLC), benzocaine, benzphetamine hydrochloride (Didrex),
bladderwrack (focus vesiculosus), BRS3 (bombesin receptor subtype 3) agonists, bupropion,
caffeine, CCK agonists, chitosan, chromium, conjugated linoleic acid, corticotropin-releasing
hormone agonists, dehydroepiandrosterone, DGATI (diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1) inhibitors,
DGAT2 (diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2) inhibitors, dicarboxylate transporter inhibitors,
ephedra, exendin-4 (an inhibitor of glp-1) FAS (fatty acid synthase) inhibitors (such as Cerulenin
and C75), fat resorption inhibitors (such as those in WO03/05345 1, and the like), fatty acid
transporter inhibitors, natural water soluble fibers (such as psyllium, plantago, guar, oat, pectin),
galanin antagonists, galega (Goat's Rue, French Lilac), garcinia cambogia, germander (teucrium
chamaedrys), ghrelin antibodies and ghrelin antagonists (such as those disclosed in
WOO 1/87335, and W002/08250), polypeptide hormones and variants thereof which affect the
islet cell secretion, such as the hormones of the secretin/gastric inhibitory polypeptide
                                                  73

(GIP)/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)/pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide
(PACAP)/glucagon-like polypeptide II (GLP- II)/glicentin/glucagon gene family and/or those of
the adrenomedullin/amylin/calcitonin gene related polypeptide (CGRP) gene family
includingGLP-1 (glucagon- like polypeptide 1) agonists (e.g. (1) exendin-4, (2) those GLP-I
molecules described in US20050130891 including GLP- 1(7-34), GLP-l(7-35), GLP-l(7-36) or
GLP-l(7-37) in its C-terminally carboxylated or amidated form or as modified GLP-I
polypeptides and modifications thereof including those described in paragraphs 17-44 of
US20050130891, and derivatives derived from GLP-1-(7- 34)COOH and the corresponding acid
amide are employed which have the following general formula: R-NH
HAEGTFTSDVSYLEGQAAKEFIAWLVK-CONH                       2 wherein R=H or an organic compound
having from I to 10 carbon atoms. Preferably, R is the residue of a carboxylic acid. Particularly
preferred are the following carboxylic acid residues: formyl, acetyl, propionyl, isopropionyl,
methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, tert- butyl.) and glp-1 (glucagon-like
polypeptide- 1), glucocorticoid antagonists, glucose transporter inhibitors, growth hormone
secretagogues (such as those disclosed and specifically described in US5536716), interleukin-6
(IL-6) and modulators thereof (as in W003/057237, and the like), L- carnitine, Mc3r
(melanocortin 3 receptor) agonists, MCH2R (melanin concentrating hormone 2R)
agonist/antagonists, melanin concentrating hormone antagonists, melanocortin agonists (such as
Melanotan II or those described in WO 99/64002 and WO 00/74679), nomame herba, phosphate
transporter inhibitors, phytopharm compound 57 (CP 644,673), pyruvate, SCD-I (stearoyl-CoA
desaturase-1) inhibitors, T71 (Tularik, Inc., Boulder CO), Topiramate (Topimax@, indicated as
an anti-convulsant which has been shown to increase weight loss), transcription factor
modulators (such as those disclosed in WO03/026576), 3-hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase- 1
 inhibitors (P -HSD-I), p-hydroxy-p-methylbutyrate, p57 (Pfizer), Zonisamide (Zonegran TM,
 indicated as an anti-epileptic which has been shown to lead to weight loss), and the agents
disclosed in US200301 19428 paragraphs 20-26.
                         1.2.2.7 Phosphodiesterase inhibitors
 [148]   In certain embodiments, the regimen of combination therapy includes the administration
of one or more phosphodiesterase ("PDE") inhibitors. PDE inhibitors slow the degradation of
cyclic AMP (cAMP) and/or cyclic GMP (cGMP) by inhibiting phosphodiesterases, which can
                                                  74

lead to a relative increase in the intracellular concentration of cAMP and/or cGMP. Non
limiting examples of PDE inhibitors that can be used in combination with the GCC agonists of
the invention include PDE3 inhibitors, PDE4 inhibitors and/or PDE5 inhibitors, in particular
those substances which can be designated as mixed types of PDE3/4 inhibitors or as mixed types
of PDE3/4/5 inhibitors. Non-limiting examples of such PDE inhibitors are described in the
following patent applications and patents: DE1470341, DE2108438, DE2123328, DE2305339,
DE2305575, DE2315801, DE2402908, DE2413935, DE2451417, DE2459090, DE2646469,
DE2727481, DE2825048, DE2837161, DE2845220, DE2847621, DE2934747, DE3021792,
DE3038166, DE3044568, EP000718, EP0008408, EP0010759, EP0059948, EP0075436,
EP0096517, EPO 12987, EPO 16948, EP0150937, EP0158380, EP0161632, EP0161918,
EPO167121, EPO199127, EP0220044, EP0247725, EP0258191, EP0272910, EP0272914,
EP0294647, EP0300726, EP0335386, EP0357788, EP0389282, EP0406958, EP0426180,
EP0428302, EP0435811, EP0470805, EP0482208, EP0490823, EP0506194, EP0511865,
EP0527117, EP0626939, EP0664289, EP0671389, EP0685474, EP0685475, EP0685479,
JP92234389, JP94329652, JP95010875, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,963,561, 5,141,931, W09117991,
W09200968, W09212961, W09307146, W09315044, W09315045, W09318024,
W09319068, W09319720, W09319747, W09319749, W09319751, W09325517,
W09402465, W09406423, W09412461, W09420455, W09422852, W09425437,
W09427947, W09500516, W09501980, W09503794, W09504045, W09504046,
W09505386, W09508534, W09509623, W09509624, W09509627, W09509836,
W09514667, W09514680, W09514681, W09517392, W09517399, W09519362,
W09522520, W09524381, W09527692, W09528926, W09535281, W09535282,
W09600218, W9601825, W09602541, WO96                  1017,  DE3142982, DEl 116676, DE2162096,
 EP0293063, EP0463756, EP0482208, EP0579496, EP0667345 US6,331,543, US20050004222
(including those disclosed in formulas I-XIII and paragraphs 37-39, 85-0545 and 557-577) and
 W09307124, EP0163965, EP0393500, EP0510562, EP0553174, W09501338 and W09603399.
PDE5 inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of example are RX-RA-69, SCH-51866, KT
 734, vesnarinone, zaprinast, SKF-96231, ER-21355, BF/GP-385, NM-702 and sildenafil
(Viagra@). PDE4 inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of example are RO-20-1724,
 MEM 1414 (RI 533/R1500; Pharmacia Roche), DENBUFYLLINE, ROLIPRAM,
 OXAGRELATE, NITRAQUAZONE, Y-590, DH-647 1, SKF-94120, MOTAPIZONE,
                                                   75

LIXAZINONE, INDOLIDAN, OLPRINONE, ATIZORAM, KS-506-G, DIPAMFYLLINE,
BMY-43351, ATIZORAM, AROFYLLINE, FILAMINAST, PDB-093, UCB-29646, CDP-840,
SKF- 107806, PICLAMILAST, RS- 17597, RS-25344-000, SB-207499, TIBENELAST, SB
210667, SB-211572, SB-211600, SB-212066, SB-212179, GW-3600, CDP-840, MOPIDAMOL,
ANAGRELIDE, IBUDILAST, AMRINONE, PIMOBENDAN, CILOSTAZOL, QUAZINONE
and N-(3,5-dichloropyrid-4-yl)-3-cyclopropylnethoxy4-difluoromethoxybenzamide. PDE3
inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of example are SULMAZOLE, AMPIZONE,
CILOSTAMIDE, CARBAZERAN, PIROXIMONE, IMAZODAN, C1-930, SIGUAZODAN,
ADIBENDAN, SATERINONE, SKF-95654, SDZ-MKS-492, 349-U-85, EMORADAN, EMD
53998, EMD-57033, NSP-306, NSP-307, REVIZINONE, NM-702, WIN-62582 and WIN
63291, ENOXIMONE and MILRINONE. PDE3/4 inhibitors which may be mentioned by way of
example are BENAFENTRINE, TREQUINSIN, ORG-30029, ZARDAVERINE, L-686398,
SDZ-ISQ-844, ORG-20241, EMD-54622, and TOLAFENTRINE. Other PDE inhibitors include:
cilomilast, pentoxifylline, roflumilast, tadalafil(Cialis@), theophylline, and vardenafil(Levitra@),
zaprinast (PDE5 specific). GCC AGONIST
                        1.2.2.8 Analgesic Agents
[149]   In certain embodiments, the regimen of combination therapy includes the administration
of one or more analgesic agents, e.g., an analgesic compound or an analgesic polypeptide. In
some embodiments, the GCC agonist formulation is administered simultaneously or sequentially
with one or more analgesic agents. In other embodiments, the GCC agonist is covalently linked
or attached to an analgesic agent to create a therapeutic conjugate. Non-limiting examples of
analgesic agents that can be used include calcium channel blockers, 5HT receptor antagonists
(for example 5HT3, 5HT4 and 5HTI receptor antagonists), opioid receptor agonists (loperamide,
fedotozine, and fentanyl), NKI receptor antagonists, CCK receptor agonists (e.g., loxiglumide),
NKI receptor antagonists, NK3 receptor antagonists, norepinephrine-serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (NSRI), vanilloid and cannabanoid receptor agonists, and sialorphin. Further
examples of analgesic agents in the various classes are known in the art.
[150]   In one embodiment, the analgesic agent is an analgesic polypeptide selected from the
group consisting of sialorphin-related polypeptides, including those comprising the amino acid
                                                   76

sequence QHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 239), including: VQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 240); VRQHNPR
(SEQ ID NO: 241); VRGQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 242); VRGPQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 243);
VRGPRQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 244); VRGPRRQHNPR (SEQ ID NO: 245); and RQHNPR
(SEQ ID NO: 246). Sialorphin-related polypeptides bind to neprilysin and inhibit neprilysin
mediated breakdown of substance P and Met-enkephalin. Thus, compounds or polypeptides that
are inhibitors of neprilysin are useful analgesic agents which can be administered with the GCC
agonists described herein or covalently linked to a GCC agonist to form a therapeutic conjugate.
Sialorphin and related polypeptides are described in U.S. Patent 6,589,750; U.S. 20030078200
Al; and WO 02/051435 A2.
[151]   In another embodiment, a GCC agonist formulation of the invention is administered as
part of a regimen of combination therapy with an opioid receptor antagonist or agonist. In one
embodiment, the GCC agonist and the opioid receptor antagonist or agonist are linked via a
covalent bond. Non-limiting examples of opioid receptor antagonists include naloxone,
naltrexone, methyl nalozone, nalmefene, cyprid ime, beta funaltrexamine, naloxonazine,
naltrindole, nor-binaltorphimine, enkephalin pentapeptide (HOE825; Tyr-D-Lys-Gly-Phe-L
homoserine), trimebutine, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, gastrin, glucagons. Non-limiting
examples of opioid receptor agonists include fedotozine, asimadoline, and ketocyclazocine, the
compounds described in WO03/097051 and WO05/007626, morphine, diphenyloxylate,
frakefamide (H-Tyr-D-Ala-Phe(F)-Phe-NH 2; WO 01/019849 Al), and loperamide.
[152]   Further non-limiting examples of analgesic agents that can be used in a regimen of
combination therapy along with the GCC agonist formulations of the invention include the
dipeptide Tyr-Arg (kyotorphin); the chromogranin-derived polypeptide (CgA 47-66; See, e.g.,
Ghia et al. 2004 Regulatory polypeptides 119:199); CCK receptor agonists such as caerulein;
conotoxin polypeptides; peptide analogs of thymulin (FR Application 2830451); CCK (CCKa or
CCKb) receptor antagonists, including loxiglumide and dexloxiglumide (the R- isomer of
loxiglumide) (WO 88/05774); 5-HT4 agonists such as tegaserod (Zelnorm@), mosapride,
metoclopramide, zacopride, cisapride, renzapride, benzimidazolone derivatives such as BIMU I
and BIMU 8, and lirexapride; calcium channel blockers such as ziconotide and related
compounds described in, for example, EP625162B I, US 5,364,842, US 5,587,454, US
5,824,645, US 5,859,186, US 5,994,305, US 6087,091, US 6,136,786, WO 93/13128 Al, EP
                                                  77

 1336409 Al, EP 835126 Al, EP 835126 BI, US 5,795,864, US 5,891,849, US 6,054,429, WO
97/01351 Al; NK-I, receptor antagonists such as aprepitant (Merck & Co Inc), vofopitant,
ezlopitant (Pfizer, Inc.), R-673 (Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd), SR-48968 (Sanofi Synthelabo), CP
 122,721 (Pfizer, Inc.), GW679769 (Glaxo Smith Kline), TAK-637 (Takeda/Abbot), SR-14033,
and related compounds described in, for example, EP 873753 Al, US 20010006972 Al, US
20030109417 Al, WO 0 1/52844 Al (for a review see Giardina et al. 2003.Drugs 6:758); NK-2
receptor antagonists such as nepadutant (Menarini Ricerche SpA), saredutant (Sanoft
Synthelabo), GW597599 (Glaxo Smith Kline), SR-144190 (Sanoft-Synthelabo) and UK-290795
(Pfizer Inc); NK3 receptor antagonists such as osanetant (SR-1 42801; Sanoft-Synthelabo), SSR
241586, talnetant and related compounds described in, for example, WO 02/094187 A2, EP
876347 Al, WO 97/21680 Al, US 6,277,862, WO 98/1 1090, WO 95/28418, WO 97/19927, and
Boden et al. (J Med Chem. 39:1664-75, 1996); norepinephrine-serotonin reuptake inhibitors
(NSRI) such as milnacipran and related compounds described in WO 03/077897; and vanilloid
receptor antagonists such as arvanil and related compouds described in WO 01/64212 Al.
[153]    In addition to sialorphin-related polypeptides, analgesic polypeptides include: AspPhe,
endomorphin-1, endomorphin-2, nocistatin, dalargin, lupron, ziconotide, and substance P.
                         1.2.2.9 Insulin and Insulin Modulating Agents
[154]    The GCC agonist peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with
insulin and related compounds including primate, rodent, or rabbit insulin including biologically
active variants thereof including allelic variants, more preferably human insulin available in
recombinant form. Sources of human insulin include pharmaceutically acceptable and sterile
formulations such as those available from Eli Lilly (Indianapolis, Ind. 46285) as Humulin TM
(human insulin rDNA origin). See, the THE PHYSICIAN'S DESK REFERENCE, 55.sup.th Ed.
(2001) Medical Economics, Thomson Healthcare (disclosing other suitable human insulins).
[155]    The GCC peptides described herein can also be used in combination therapy with agents
that can boost insulin effects or levels of a subject upon administration, e.g. glipizide and/or
rosiglitazone. The polypeptides and agonists described herein can be used in combitherapy with
SYMLIN@ (pramlintide acetate) and Exenatide@ (synthetic exendin-4; a 39 aa polypeptide).
                                                   78

                         1.2.2.10        Anti-Hypertensive Agents
[156]   The GCC agonist peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with an
anti-hypertensive agent including but not limited to: (1) diuretics, such as thiazides, including
chlorthalidone, chlorthiazide, dichlorophenamide, hydroflumethiazide, indapamide, polythiazide,
and hydrochlorothiazide; loop diuretics, such as bumetanide, ethacrynic acid, furosemide, and
torsemide; potassium sparing agents, such as amiloride, and triamterene; carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors, osmotics(such as glycerin) and aldosterone antagonists, such as spironolactone,
epirenone, and the like; (2) beta-adrenergic blockers such as acebutolol, atenolol, betaxolol,
bevantolol, bisoprolol, bopindolol, carteolol, carvedilol, celiprolol, esmolol, indenolol,
metaprolol, nadolol, nebivolol, penbutolol, pindolol, propanolol, sotalol, tertatolol, tilisolol, and
timolol, and the like; (3) calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine, aranidipine, azelnidipine,
barnidipine, benidipine, bepridil, cinaldipine, clevidipine, diltiazem, efonidipine, felodipine,
gallopamil, isradipine, lacidipine, lemildipine, lercanidipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, nilvadipine,
nimodepine, nisoldipine, nitrendipine, manidipine, pranidipine, and verapamil, and the like; (4)
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril; captopril; ceranapril;
cilazapril; delapril; enalapril; enalopril; fosinopril; imidapril; lisinopril; losinopril; moexipril;
quinapril; quinaprilat; ramipril; perindopril; perindropril; quanipril; spirapril; tenocapril;
trandolapril, and zofenopril, and the like; (5) neutral endopeptidase inhibitors such as
omapatrilat, cadoxatril and ecadotril, fosidotril, sampatrilat, AVE7688, ER4030, and the like; (6)
endothelin antagonists such as tezosentan, A308165, and YM62899, and the like; (7)
vasodilators such as hydralazine, clonidine, minoxidil, and nicotinyl alcohol, and the like; (8)
angiotensin II receptor antagonists such as aprosartan, candesartan, eprosartan, irbesartan,
losartan, olmesartan, pratosartan, tasosartan, telmisartan, valsartan, and EXP-3 137, F16828K,
and RNH6270, and the like; (9) a/p adrenergic blockers such as nipradilol, arotinolol and
amosulalol, and the like; (10) alpha I blockers, such as terazosin, urapidil, prazosin, tamsulosin,
bunazosin, trimazosin, doxazosin, naftopidil, indoramin, WHP 164, and XENOlO, and the like;
(11) alpha 2 agonists such as lofexidine, tiamenidine, moxonidine, rilmenidine and guanobenz,
and the like; (12) aldosterone inhibitors, and the like; and (13) angiopoietin-2 -binding agents
such as those disclosed in WO03/030833. Specific anti-hypertensive agents that can be used in
combination with polypeptides and agonists described herein include, but are not limited to:
diuretics, such as thiazides (e.g., chlorthalidone, cyclothiazide (CAS RN 2259-96-3),
                                                    79

chlorothiazide (CAS RN 72956-09-3, which may be prepared as disclosed in US2809194),
dichlorophenamide, hydroflumethiazide, indapamide, polythiazide, bendroflumethazide,
methyclothazide, polythiazide, trichlormethazide, chlorthalidone, indapamide, metolazone,
quinethazone, althiazide (CAS RN 5588-16-9, which may be prepared as disclosed in British
Patent No. 902,658), benzthiazide (CAS RN 91-33-8, which may be prepared as disclosed in
US3 108097), buthiazide (which may be prepared as disclosed in British Patent Nos. 861 ,367),
and hydrochlorothiazide), loop diuretics (e.g. bumetanide, ethacrynic acid, furosemide, and
torasemide), potassium sparing agents (e.g. amiloride, and triamterene (CAS Number 396-0 1
0)), and aldosterone antagonists (e.g. spironolactone (CAS Number 52-01-7), epirenone, and the
like); p-adrenergic blockers such as Amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone), bunolol hydrochloride
(CAS RN 3 1969-05-8, Parke-Davis), acebutolol (N-[3-Acetyl-4-[2-hydroxy-3-[(I
methylethyl)amino]propoxy]phenyl]-butanamide, or ()-3'-Acetyl-4'-[2-hydroxy -3
(isopropylamino) propoxy] butyranilide), acebutolol hydrochloride (e.g. Sectral@, Wyeth
Ayerst), alprenolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 13707-88-5 see Netherlands Patent Application No.
6,605,692), atenolol (e.g. Tenormin@, AstraZeneca), carteolol hydrochloride (e.g. Cartrol@
Filmtab@, Abbott), Celiprolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 57470-78-7, also see in US4034009),
cetamolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 77590-95-5, see also US4059622), labetalol hydrochloride
(e.g. Normodyne, Schering), esmolol hydrochloride (e.g. Brevibloc, Baxter), levobetaxolol
hydrochloride (e.g. Betaxon TM Ophthalmic Suspension, Alcon), levobunolol hydrochloride (e.g.
Betagan Liquifilm@ with C CAP@ Compliance Cap, Allergan), nadolol (e.g. Nadolol, Mylan),
practolol (CAS RN 6673-35-4, see also US3408387), propranolol hydrochloride (CAS RN 318
98-9), sotalol hydrochloride (e.g. Betapace AFTM,Berlex), timolol (2-Propanol,l-[(I,l
dimethylethyl)amino]-3-[[4-4(4-morpholinyl)-!,2,5-thiadiazol-3-yl]oxy]-, hemihydrate, (S)-,
CAS RN 91524-16-2), timolol maleate (S)-l -[(1,1 -dimethylethyl) amino]-3-[[4- (4
morpholinyl)-1,2,5-thiadiazol -3- yl] oxy]-2-propanol (Z)-2-butenedioate (I :1) salt, CAS RN
26921-17-5), bisoprolol (2-Propanol, 1-[4-[[2-(l-methylethoxy)ethoxy]-methyl]phenoxyl]-3-[(I
meth- ylethyl)amino]-, (), CAS RN 66722-44-9), bisoprolol fumarate (such as ()-1-[4-[[2-(1
Methylethoxy) ethoxy] methyl]phenoxy]-3 -[(1-methylethyl)amino]-2-propanol (E) -2
butenedioate (2:1) (salt), e.g., ZebetaTM , Lederle Consumer), nebivalol (2H-l-Benzopyran-2
methanol, aa'-[iminobis(methylene)]bis[6-fluoro-3,4-dihydro-, CAS RN 99200-09-6 see also
U.S. Pat. No. 4,654,362), cicloprolol hydrochloride, such 2-Propanol, ]-[4-[2
                                                  80

(cyclopropylmethoxy)ethoxy]phenoxy]-3 -[l-methylethyl)amino]-, hydrochloride, A.A.S. RN
63686-79-3), dexpropranolol hydrochloride (2-Propanol,l-[l-methylethy)-amino]-3-(l
naphthalenyloxy)-hydrochloride (CAS RN 13071-11-9), diacetolol hydrochloride (Acetamide,
N-[3-acetyl-4-[2-hydroxy-3-[(l-methyl-ethyl)amino]propoxy]        [phenyl]-, monohydrochloride
CAS RN 69796-04-9), dilevalol hydrochloride (Benzamide, 2-hydroxy-5-[l-hydroxy-2-[l
methyl-3-phenylpropyl)amino]ethyl]-, monohydrochloride, CAS RN 75659-08-4), exaprolol
hydrochloride (2-Propanol, I -(2-cyclohexylphenoxy)-3 - [( I -methylethyl)amino]        -,
hydrochloride CAS RN 59333-90-3), flestolol sulfate (Benzoic acid, 2-fluro-,3-[[2
[aminocarbonyl)amino]- - dimethylethyl]amino]-2-hydroxypropyl ester, (+)- sulfate (1 :1) (salt),
CAS RN 88844-73-9; metalol hydrochloride (Methanesulfonamide, N-[4-[l-hydroxy-2
(methylamino)propyl]phenyl]-, monohydrochloride CAS RN 7701-65-7), metoprolol 2
Propanol, 1-[4-(2- methoxyethyl)phenoxy]-3-[1-methylethyl)amino]-; CAS RN 37350-58-6),
metoprolol tartrate (such as 2-Propanol, 1-[4-(2-methoxyethyl)phenoxy]-3-[(
methylethyl)amino]-, e.g., Lopressor@, Novartis), pamatolol sulfate (Carbamic acid, [2-[4-[2
hydroxy-3-[(- methylethyl)amino]propoxyl]phenyl]-ethyl]-, methyl ester, () sulfate (salt) (2:1),
CAS RN 59954-01-7), penbutolol sulfate (2-Propanol, I-(2-cyclopentylphenoxy)-3-[,l
dimethyle- thyl)amino] I , (S)-, sulfate (2:1) (salt), CAS RN 38363-32-5), practolol (Acetamide,
N-[4-[2- hydroxy-3-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-propoxy]phenyl]-, CAS RN 6673-35-4;) tiprenolol
hydrochloride (Propanol, l-[(l-methylethyl)amino]-3-[2-(methylthio)-phenoxy]-, hydrochloride,
(), CAS RN 39832-43-4), tolamolol (Benzamide, 4-[2-[[2-hydroxy-3-(2-methylphenoxy)
propyl] amino] ethoxyl]-, CAS RN 38103-61-6), bopindolol, indenolol, pindolol, propanolol,
tertatolol, and tilisolol, and the like; calcium channel blockers such as besylate salt of amlodipine
(such as 3-ethyl-5-methyl-2-(2 -aminoethoxymethyl)-4-(2-chlorophenyl)-! ,4-dihydro-6-methyl
3 ,5-pyridinedicarboxylate benzenesulphonate, e.g., Norvasc@, Pfizer), clentiazem maleate (1,5
Benzothiazepin-4(5H)-one, 3-(acetyloxy)-8-chloro-5-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-2,3-dihydro-2
(4-methoxyphenyl)-(2S-cis)-, (Z)-2-butenedioate (I :1), see also US4567195), isradipine (3,5
Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 4-(4-benzofurazanyl)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-, methyl 1
methylethyl ester, ()-4(4-benzofurazanyl)- I ,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-3 ,5
pyridinedicarboxylate, see also US4466972); nimodipine (such as is isopropyl (2- methoxyethyl)
 1, 4- dihydro -2,6- dimethyl -4- (3-nitrophenyl) -3,5- pyridine - dicarboxylate, e.g. Nimotop@,
Bayer), felodipine (such as ethyl methyl 4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-l,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-3,5
                                                    81

pyridinedicarboxylate- , e.g. Plendil@ Extended-Release, AstraZeneca LP), nilvadipine (3,5
Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 2-cyano-l,4-dihydro-6-methyl-4-(3-nitrophenyl)-,3-methyl 5-(1
methylethyl) ester, also see US3799934), nifedipine (such as 3, 5 -pyridinedicarboxylic acid,l,4
dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-, dimethyl ester, e.g., Procardia XL@ Extended Release
Tablets, Pfizer), diltiazem hydrochloride (such as l,5-Benzothiazepin-4(5H)-one,3-(acetyloxy)
5[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-2,-3-dihydro-2(4-methoxyphenyl)-,        monohydrochloride, (+)-cis., e.g.,
Tiazac@, Forest), verapamil hydrochloride (such as benzeneacetronitrile, (alpha)-[[3-[[2-(3,4
dimethoxyphenyl) ethyl]methylam ino]propyl] -3 ,4-dimethoxy-(alpha)-( I -methylethyl)
hydrochloride, e.g., Isoptin@ SR, Knoll Labs), teludipine hydrochloride (3,5
Pyrid inedicarboxylic acid, 2-[(d imethylamino)methyl]4-[2-[(IE)-3-(l,l-dimethylethoxy)-3-oxo- I
propenyl]phenyl]-1,4-dihydro-6-methyl-, diethyl ester, monohydrochloride) CAS RN 108700
03-4), belfosdil (Phosphonic acid, [2-(2-phenoxy ethyl)- 1,3 -propane- diyl]bis-, tetrabutyl ester
CAS RN 103486-79-9), fostedil (Phosphonic acid, [[4-(2-benzothiazolyl)phenyl]methyl]-,
diethyl ester CAS RN 75889-62-2), aranidipine, azelnidipine, barnidipine, benidipine, bepridil,
cinaldipine, clevidipine, efonidipine, gallopamil, lacidipine, lemildipine, lercanidipine, monatepil
maleate (1-Piperazinebutanamide, N-(6, 11 -dihydrodibenzo(b,e)thiepin- 11 -yl)4-(4
fluorophenyl)-, (+)-, (Z)-2-butenedioate (1 :1) ()-N-(6,1 l-Dihydrodibenzo(b,e)thiep- in-I 1-yl)-4
(p- fluorophenyl)-l-piperazinebutyranide maleate (1 :1) CAS RN 132046-06-1), nicardipine,
nisoldipine, nitrendipine, manidipine, pranidipine, and the like; T-channel calcium antagonists
such as mibefradil; angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors such as benazepril,
benazepril hydrochloride (such as 3-[[l-(ethoxycarbonyl)-3- phenyl-( I S)-propyl]amino]-2,3
,4,5-tetrahydro-2-oxo- 1 H - 1 -(3 S)-benzazepine- I -acetic acid monohydrochloride, e.g.,
Lotrel@, Novartis), captopril (such as l-[(2S)-3-mercapto-2- methylpropionyli-L-proline, e.g.,
Captopril, Mylan, CAS RN 62571-86-2 and others disclosed in US4046889), ceranapril (and
others disclosed in US4452790), cetapril (alacepril, Dainippon disclosed in Eur. Therap. Res.
39:671 (1986); 40:543 (1986)), cilazapril (Hoffman-LaRoche) disclosed in J. Cardiovasc.
Pharmacol. 9:39 (1987), indalapril (delapril hydrochloride (2H-1,2,4- Benzothiadiazine-7
sulfonamide, 3-bicyclo[2.2.1 ]hept-5-en-2-yl-6-chloro-3 ,4-dihydro-, 1,1 - dioxide CAS RN 2259
96-3); disclosed in US4385051), enalapril (and others disclosed in US4374829), enalopril,
enaloprilat, fosinopril, ((such as L-proline, 4-cyclohexyl-l-[[[2-methyl- l-(l-oxopropoxy)
propoxy](4-phenylbutyl) phosphinyllacetyl]-, sodium salt, e.g., Monopril, Bristol-Myers Squibb
                                                  82

 and others disclosed in US4168267), fosinopril sodium (L- Proline, 4-cyclohexyl-l-[[(R)-[(IS)-2
 methyl-l-(l-ox- opropoxy)propox), imidapril, indolapril (Schering, disclosed in J. Cardiovasc.
 Pharmacol. 5:643, 655 (1983)), lisinopril (Merck), losinopril, moexipril, moexipril hydrochloride
 (3-Isoquinolinecarboxylic acid, 2-[(2S)-2-[[(lS)- I -(ethoxycarbonyl)-3-phenylpropyl]amino]- 1
 oxopropyl]- I   ,- 2,3,4-tetrahydro-6,7-dimethoxy-,   monohydrochloride, (3S)- CAS RN 82586-52
 5), quinapril, quinaprilat, ramipril (Hoechsst) disclosed in EP 79022 and Curr. Ther. Res. 40:74
 (1986), perindopril erbumine (such as 2S,3aS,7aS- I -[(S)-N-[(S)-     I
 Carboxybutyljalanyljhexahydro^-indolinecarboxylic acid, 1 -ethyl ester, compound with tert
 butylamine (1 :1), e.g., Aceon@, Solvay), perindopril (Servier, disclosed in Eur. J. clin.
 Pharmacol. 31 :519 (1987)), quanipril (disclosed in US4344949), spirapril (Schering, disclosed
 in Acta. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 59 (Supp. 5): 173 (1986)), tenocapril, trandolapril, zofenopril (and
 others disclosed in US43 16906), rentiapril (fentiapril, disclosed in Clin. Exp. Pharmacol.
 Physiol. 10:131 (1983)), pivopril, YS980, teprotide (Bradykinin potentiator BPP9a CAS RN
 35115-60-7), BRL 36,378 (Smith Kline Beecham, see EP80822 and EP60668), MC-838
(Chugai, see CA. 102:72588v and Jap. J. Pharmacol. 40:373 (1986), CGS 14824 (Ciba-Geigy, 3
([l-ethoxycarbonyl-3-phenyl-(lS)-propyl]amino)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-2-ox-        o-l-(3 S)-benzazepine-l
acetic acid HCI, see U.K. Patent No. 2103614), CGS 16,617 (Ciba- Geigy, 3(S)-[[(lS)-5-amino-l
carboxypentyl]amino]-2,3 ,4,- 5-tetrahydro-2-oxo-lH-1- benzazepine- I -ethanoic acid, see
US4473575), Ru 44570 (Hoechst, see Arzneimittelforschung 34:1254 (1985)), R 31-2201
(Hoffman-LaRoche see FEBS Lett. 165:201 (1984)), C1925 (Pharmacologist 26:243, 266
(1984)), WY-44221 (Wyeth, see J. Med. Chem. 26:394 (1983)), and those disclosed in
US2003006922 (paragraph 28), US433720 1, US4432971 (phosphonamidates); neutral
endopeptidase inhibitors such as omapatrilat (Vanlev@), CGS 30440, cadoxatril and ecadotril,
fasidotril (also known as aladotril or alatriopril), sampatrilat, mixanpril, and gemopatrilat,
AVE7688, ER4030, and those disclosed in US5362727, US5366973, US5225401, US4722810,
US5223516, US4749688, US5552397, US5504080, US5612359, US5525723, EP0599444,
EP0481522, EP0599444, EP0595610, EP0534363, EP534396, EP534492, EP0629627;
endothelin antagonists such as tezosentan, A308165, and YM62899, and the like; vasodilators
such as hydralazine (apresoline), clonidine (clonidine hydrochloride (I H-Imidazol- 2-amine, N
(2,6-dichlorophenyl)4,5-dihydro-, monohydrochloride CAS RN 4205-91-8), catapres, minoxidil
(loniten), nicotinyl alcohol (roniacol), diltiazern hydrochloride (such as 1,5- Benzothiazepin
                                                   83

4(5 H)-one,3-(acetyloxy)-5[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-2,-3 -d ihydro-2(4- methoxyphenyl)-,
monohydrochloride, (+)-cis, e.g., Tiazac@, Forest), isosorbide dinitrate (such as 1,4:3,6
dianhydro-D-glucitol 2,5-dinitrate e.g., Isordil@ Titradose@, Wyeth- Ayerst), sosorbide
mononitrate (such as 1,4:3,6-dianhydro-D-glucito- 1,5-nitrate, an organic nitrate, e.g., Ismo@,
Wyeth-Ayerst), nitroglycerin (such as 2,3 propanetriol trinitrate, e.g., Nitrostat Parke- Davis),
verapamil hydrochloride (such as benzeneacetonitrile, ()-(alpha)[3-[[2-(3,4 dimethoxypheny
l)ethyl]methylamino]propyl] -3 ,4-dimethoxy-(alpha)- ( 1 -methylethyl) hydrochloride, e.g.,
Covera HS Extended-Release, Searle), chromonar (which may be prepared as disclosed in
US3282938), clonitate (Annalen 1870 155), droprenilamine (which may be prepared as disclosed
in DE2521113), lidoflazine (which may be prepared as disclosed in US3267104); prenylamine
(which may be prepared as disclosed in US3 152173), propatyl nitrate (which may be prepared as
disclosed in French Patent No. 1,103,113), mioflazine hydrochloride (1 -Piperazineacetamide, 3
(aminocarbonyl)4-[4,4-bis(4-fluorophenyl)butyl]-N-(2,6- dichlorophenyl)-, dihydrochloride CAS
RN 83898-67-3), mixidine (Benzeneethanamine, 3,4- dimethoxy-N-(l-methyl-2
pyrrolidinylidene)- Pyrrolidine, 2-[(3,4-dimethoxyphenethyl)imino]- I -methyl- l-Methyl-2- [(3,
4-dimethoxyphenethyl)imino]pyrrolidine CAS RN 27737-38-8), m6lsidomine (1,2,3
Oxadiazolium, 5-[(ethoxycarbonyl)amino]-3-(4-morpholinyl)-, inner salt CAS RN 25717-80-0),
isosorbide mononitrate (D-Glucitol, ,4:3,6-dianhydro-, 5-nitrate CAS RN 16051-77-7),
erythrityl tetranitrate (1,2,3,4-Butanetetrol, tetranitrate, (2R,3 S)-rel-CAS RN 7297-25-8),
clonitrate(l,2-Propanediol, 3-chloro-, dinitrate (7C, 8Cl, 9CI) CAS RN 2612-33-1),
dipyridamole Ethanol, 2,2',2",2"'-[(4,8-di-l-piperidinylpyrimido[5,4-d]pyrimidine-2,6
diyl)dinitrilo]tetrakis- CAS RN 58-32-2), nicorandil (CAS RN 65141-46-0 3-),
pyridinecarboxamide (N-[2-(nitrooxy)ethyl]-Nisoldipine3,5-Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, 1,4
dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-, methyl 2-methylpropyl ester CAS RN 63675-72-9),
nifedipine3 ,5-Pyridinedicarboxylic acid, l,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(2-nitrophenyl)-, dimethyl
ester CAS RN 21829-25-4), perhexiline maleate (Piperidine, 2-(2,2-dicyclohexylethyl)-, (2Z)-2
butenedioate (1 :1) CAS RN 6724-53-4), oxprenolol hydrochloride (2-Propanol, 1-[(1
methylethyl)amino]-3-[2-(2-propenyloxy)phenoxy]-, hydrochloride CAS RN 6452-73-9),
pentrinitrol (1,3-Propanediol, 2,2-bis[(nitrooxy)methyl]-, mononitrate (ester) CAS RN 1607-17
6), verapamil (Benzeneacetonitrile, a-[3-[[2-(3 ,4-dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl]- methylamino]propyl]
3, 4-dimethoxy-a-(l -methylethyl)- CAS RN 52-53-9) and the like; angiotensin II receptor
                                                    84

antagonists such as, aprosartan, zolasartan, olmesartan, pratosartan, F16828K, RNH6270,
candesartan (1 H-Benzimidazole-7-carboxylic acid, 2-ethoxy-I-[[2'-(IH-tetrazol-5-yl)[I,l'
biphenyl]4-yl]methyl]- CAS RN 139481-59-7), candesartan cilexetil ((+/-)-I
(cyclohexylcarbonyloxy)ethyl-2-ethoxy-l-[[2'-(IH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]-lH-benzimidazole
carboxylate, CAS RN 145040-37-5, US57031 10 and US5196444), eprosartan (3-[1-4
carboxyphenylmethyl)-2-n-butyl-imidazol-5-yl]-(2-thienylmethyl)      propenoic acid, US5185351
and US5650650), irbesartan (2-n-butyl-3- [[2'-(lh-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl] 1 ,3
diazazspiro[4,4]non-l-en-4-one, US52703 17 and US5352788), losartan (2-N-butyl-4-chloro-5
hydroxymethyl-l-[(2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)-methyl]imidazole,    potassium salt,
US5138069, US5153197 and USS128355), tasosartan (5,8-dihydro-2,4-dimethyl-8-[(2'-(IH
tetrazol-5-yl)[l,r-biphenyl]4-yl)methyl]-pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidin-7(6H)-one, US5149699),
telmisartan (4'-[(1 ,4-dimethyl-2'-propyl-(2,6'-bi-H-benzimidazol)-r-yl)]-[ I , I '-biphenyl]-2
carboxylic acid, CAS RN 144701-48-4, US5591762), milfasartan, abitesartan, valsartan
(Diovan@ (Novartis), (S)-N-valeryl-N-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl]valine,
US5399578), EXP-3137 (2-N-butyl-4-chloro-l-[(2'-(IH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yI)
methyl]imidazole-5-carboxylic acid, US5138069, US5153197 and US5128355), 3-(2'-(tetrazol
5-yl)-1,r-biphen-4-yl)methyl-5,7-dimethyl-2-ethyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine, 4'[2-ethyl-4
methyl-6-(5,6,7,8-tetrahydroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-2-yl]-benzimidazol--yl]-methyl]-l,r
biphenyl]-2- carboxylic acid, 2-butyl-6-(1-methoxy-I-methylethyl)-2-[2'-)IH-tetrazol-5
yl)biphenyl-4-ylmethyl] guinazolin-4(3H)-one, 3 - [2 '-carboxybiphenyl-4-yl)methyl] -2
cyclopropyl-7-methyl- 3 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine, 2-butyl-4-chloro-l-[(2'-tetrazol-5
yl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl]imidazole-carboxylic acid, 2-butyl-4-chloro-l-[[2'-(IH-tetrazol-5- yl) [ 1
  1 '-biphenyl] -4-yl]methyl]-    H-imidazole-5 -carboxylic acid- 1 -(ethoxycarbonyl-oxy)ethy!
ester potassium salt, dipotassium 2-butyl-4-(methylthio)-1-[[2-[[[(propylamino)carbonyl]amino]
sulfonyl](l,l '-biphenyl)-4-yl]methyl]-l H-imidazole-5 -carboxylate, methyl-2-[[4-butyl-2
methyl-6-oxo-5-[[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)-[l,I '-biphenyl]-4-yl]methyl]-l-(6H)- pyrimidinyl]methyl]
3-thiophencarboxylate, 5-[(3,5-dibutyl-IH-I,2,4-triazol-1-yl)methyl]-2-[2- ( 1 H-tetrazol-5
ylphenyl)]pyridine, 6-butyl-2-(2-phenylethyl)-5 [[2'-(I H-tetrazol-5 -yl)[ 1,1 '- biphenyl]-4
methyl]pyrirnidin-4-(3H)-one D,L lysine salt, 5-methyl-7-n-propyl-8-[[2'-(lH- tetrazol-5
yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-[ I ,2,4]-triazolo[ I ,5-c]pyrimidin-2(3H)-one, 2,7-diethyl-5- [[2'-(5
tetrazoly)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-5H-pyrazolo[1,5-b][l,2,4]triazole potassium salt, 2-[2- butyl-4,5
                                                  85

dihydro-4-oxo-3I-[2'-(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)-4-biphenylmethyI]-3 H-imidazol[4,5- c]pyridine-5
ylmethyl]benzoic acid, ethyl ester, potassium salt, 3-methoxy-2,6-dimethyl-4- [[2'(IH-tetrazol-5
yl)-l,l '-biphenyl-4-yl]methoxy]pyridine, 2-ethoxy--[[2'-(5-oxo-2,5-dihydro- I ,2,4-oxadiazol-3
yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl] - I H-benzimidazole-7-carboxylic acid, 1 - [N-(2'-( I H- tetrazol-5
yl)biphenyl-4-yl-methyl)-N-valerolylaminomethyl)cyclopentane- I -carboxylic acid, 7- methyl
2n-propyl-3-[[2' IH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl] -3H-imidazo[4,5-6]pyridine, 2- [5-[(2
ethyl-5,7-dimethyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine-3-yl)methyl] -2-quinolinyl]sodium benzoate, 2
butyl-6-chloro-4-hydroxymethyl-5 -methyl-3 -[[2'-(l H-tetrazol-5 -yl)biphenyl-4
yl]methyl]pyridine, 2- [ [[2-butyl- I - [(4-carboxyphenyl)methyl] - I H-imidazol-5
yl]methyl]arnino]benzoic acid tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]nethyl]pyrimidin-6-one, 4(S)- [4
(carboxymethyl)phenoxy]-N-[2(R)-[4-(2-sulfobenzamido)imidazol-             I -yl]octanoyl]-L-proline, 1
                                                                                     3
- (2,6-dimethylphenyl)-4-butyl-l,3-dihydro-3-[[6-[2-(IH-tetrazol-5-yl)phenyl]-
pyridinyl]methyl]-2H-imidazol-2-one, 5 ,8-ethano-5 ,8-dimethyl-2-n-propyl-5 ,6,7,8-tetrahydro
 I - [[2'(lH-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-IH,4H-l,3 ,4a,8a-tetrazacyclopentanaphthalene-9
one, 4-[l-[2'-(1,2,3,4-tetrazo1-5-yl)biphen-4-yl)rnethylamino]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-2
trifylquinazoline, 2-(2-chlorobenzoyl)imino-5-ethyl-3-[2'-(lH-tetrazole-5-yl)biphenyl-4
yl)methyl-l,3),4-th iadiazoline, 2-[5-ethyl-3)-[2-(lH -tetrazole-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl-l,3),4
thiazoline-2-ylidene]aminocarbonyl-l-cyclopentencarboxylic acid dipotassium salt, and 2-butyl
4-[N-methyl-N-(3 -methylcrotonoyl)amino] - I - [ [2 '-( 1 H-tetrazol-5 -yl)biphenyl-4
yl]methyl]- I H- imidzole-5 -carboxylic acid I-ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl ester, those disclosed in
patent publications EP475206, EP497150, EP539086, EP539713, EP535463, EP535465,
EP542059, EP497121, EP535420, EP407342, EP415886, EP424317, EP435827, EP433983,
EP475898, EP490820, EP528762, EP324377, EP323841, EP420237, EP500297, EP426021,
EP480204, EP429257, EP430709, EP434249, EP446062, EP505954, EP524217, EP514197,
EP514198, EP514193, EP514192, EP450566, EP468372, EP485929, EP503162, EP533058,
EP467207 EP399731, EP399732, EP412848, EP453210, EP456442, EP470794, EP470795,
EP495626, EP495627, EP499414, EP499416, EP499415, EP5I 1791, EP516392, EP520723,
 EP520724, EP539066, EP438869, EP505893, EP530702, EP400835, EP400974, EP401030,
 EP407102, EP411766, EP409332, EP412594, EP419048, EP480659, EP481614, EP490587,
 EP467715, EP479479, EP502725, EP503838, EP505098, EP505111 EP513,979 EP507594,
 EP510812, EP5I 1767, EP512675, EP512676, EP512870, EP517357, EP537937, EP534706,
                                                     86

EP527534, EP540356, EP461040, EP540039, EP465368, EP498723, EP498722, EP498721,
EP515265, EP503785, EP501892, EP519831, EP532410, EP498361, EP432737, EP504888,
EP508393, EP508445, EP403159, EP403158, EP425211, EP427463, EP437103, EP481448,
EP488532, EP501269, EP500409, EP540400, EP005528, EP028834, EP028833, EP411507,
EP425921, EP430300, EP434038, EP442473, EP443568, EP445811, EP459136, EP483683,
EP518033, EP520423, EP531876, EP531874, EP392317, EP468470, EP470543, EP502314,
EP529253, EP543263, EP540209, EP449699, EP465323, EP521768, EP415594, W092/14468,
W093/08171, W093/08169, W091/00277, W091/00281, W091/14367, W092/00067,
W092/00977, W092/20342, W093/04045, W093/04046, W091/15206, W092/14714,
W092/09600, W092/16552, W093/05025, W093/03018, W091/07404, W092/02508,
W092/13853, W091/19697, W091/1 1909, W091/12001, W091/11999, W091/15209,
W091/15479, W092/20687, W092/20662, W092/20661, W093/01177, W091/14679,
W091/13063, W092/13564, W091/17148, W091/18888, W091/19715, W092/02257,
W092/04335, W092/05161, W092/07852, W092/15577, W093/03033, W091/16313,
W092/00068, W092/025 10, W092/09278, W09210179, W092/10180, W092/10186,
W092/10181, W092/10097, W092/10183, W092/10182, W092/10187, W092/10184,
W092/10188, W092/10180, W092/10185, W092/2065 1, W093/03722, W093/06828,
W093/03040, W092/1921 1, W092/22533, W092/06081, W092/05784, W093/00341,
W092/04343, W092/04059, US5104877, US5187168, US5149699, US5185340, US4880804,
US5138069, US4916129, US5153197, US5173494, US5137906, US5155126, US5140037,
US5137902, US5157026, US5053329, US5132216, US5057522, US5066586, US5089626,
US5049565, US5087702, US5124335, US5102880, US5128327, US5151435, US5202322,
US5187159, US5198438, US5182288, US5036048, USS1 40036, US5087634, US5 196537,
US5153347, US5191086, US5190942, US5177097, US5212177, US5208234, US5208235,
US5212195, US5130439, US5045540, US5041152, and US5210204, and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; a/p adrenergic blockers such as nipradilol, arotinolol,
amosulalol, bretylium tosylate (CAS RN: 61-75-6), dihydroergtamine mesylate (such as
ergotaman-3', 6,1 8-trione,9,-10-d ihydro-12'-hydroxy-2'-methyl-5'-(phenylmethyl)-,(5'(a))-,
monomethanesulfonate, e.g., DHE 45@ Injection, Novartis), carvedilol (such as (+)-l-(Carbazol
4-yloxy)-3-[[2-(o-methoxyphenoxy)ethyl] amino] -2-propanol, e.g., Coreg@, SmithKline
Beecham), labetalol (such as 5-[-hydroxy-2-[(l-methyl-3-phenylpropyl) amino]
                                                 87

ethyljsalicylamide monohydrochloride, e.g., Normodyne@, Schering), bretylium tosylate
(Benzenemethanaminium, 2-bromo-N-ethyl-N,N-dimethyl-, salt with 4-methylbenzenesulfonic
acid (1 :1) CAS RN 61-75-6), phentolamine mesylate (Phenol, 3-[[(4,5-dihydro-lH-imidazol-2
yl)methyl](4-methylphenyl)amino]-, monomethanesulfonate (salt) CAS RN 65-28-1),
solypertine tartrate (5H-l,3-Dioxolo[4,5-f]indole, 7-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-l
piperazinyl]ethyl]-, (2R,3R)-2,3-dihydroxybutanedioate (1 :1) CAS RN 5591-43-5), zolertine
hydrochloride (Piperazine, l-phenyl4-[2-(IH-tetrazol-5-yl)ethyl]-, monohydrochloride (8C, 9Cl)
CAS RN 7241-94-3) and the like; a adrenergic receptor blockers, such as alfuzosin (CAS RN:
81403-68-1), terazosin, urapidil, prazosin (Minipress@), tamsulosin, bunazosin, trimazosin,
doxazosin, naftopidil, indoramin, WHP 164, XENOlO, fenspiride hydrochloride (which may be
prepared as disclosed in US3399192), proroxan (CAS RN 33743-96-3), and labetalol
hydrochloride and combinations thereof; a 2 agonists such as methyldopa, methyldopa HCL,
lofexidine, tiamenidine, moxonidine, rilmenidine, guanobenz, and the like; aldosterone
inhibitors, and the like; renin inhibitors including Aliskiren (SPPIOO; Novartis/Speedel);
angiopoietin-2-binding agents such as those disclosed in WO03/030833; anti-angina agents such
as ranolazine (hydrochloride I -Piperazineacetamide, N-(2,6- dimethylphenyl)-4-[2-hydroxy-3
(2-methoxyphenoxy)propyl]-, dihydrochloride CAS RN 95635- 56-6), betaxolol hydrochloride
(2-Propanol, 1-[4-[2 (cyclopropylmethoxy)ethyl]phenoxy]-3-[(Il- methylethyl)amino]-,
hydrochloride CAS RN 63659-19-8), butoprozine hydrochloride (Methanone, [4
[3(dibutylamino)propoxy]phenyl](2-ethyl-3-indolizinyl)-, monohydrochloride CAS RN 62134
34-3), cinepazet maleatel-Piperazineacetic acid, 4-[l-oxo-3 -(3,4,5- trimethoxyphenyl)-2
propenyl]-, ethyl ester, (2Z)-2-butenedioate (1 :1) CAS RN 50679-07-7), tosifen
(Benzenesuifonamide, 4-methyl-N-[[[(IS)-i-methyi-2-phenyiethyi]amino]carbonyl]- CAS RN
32295-184), verapamilhydrochloride (Benzeneacetonitrile, a-[3-[[2-(3,4
dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl]methylamino]propyl]-3 ,4-dimethoxy-a-( I -methylethyl)-,
monohydrochloride CAS RN 152-114), molsidomine (1,2,3-Oxadiazolium, 5
 [(ethoxycarbonyl)amino]-3-(4-morpholinyl)-, inner salt CAS RN 25717-80-0), and ranolazine
hydrochloride (I -Piperazineacetamide, N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)4-[2-hydroxy-3-(2-meth
oxyphenoxy)propyl]-, dihydrochloride CAS RN 95635-56-6); tosifen (Benzenesulfonamide, 4
methyl-N-[[[(IS)-l-methyl-2-phenylethyl]amino]carbonyl]- CAS RN 32295-184); adrenergic
 stimulants such as guanfacine hydrochloride (such as N-amidino-2-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)
                                                   88

acetamide hydrochloride, e.g., Tenex@ Tablets available from Robins); methyldopa
hydrochlorothiazide (such as levo-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-2-methylalanine) combined with
Hydrochlorothiazide (such as 6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2H -l,2,4-benzothiadiazine-7- sulfonamide
  ,1-dioxide, e.g., the combination as, e.g., Aldoril@ Tablets available from Merck), methyldopa
chlorothiazide (such as 6-chloro-2H-1, 2,4-benzothiadiazine-7-sulfonamide 1,1-dioxide and
methyldopa as described above, e.g., Aldoclor@, Merck), clonidine hydrochloride (such as 2
(2,6-dichlorophenylamino)-2-imidazoline hydrochloride and chlorthalidone (such as 2-chloro-5
(l-hydroxy-3-oxo-l-isoindolinyl) benzenesulfonamide), e.g., Combipres, Boehringer
Ingelheim), clonidine hydrochloride (such as 2-(2,6-d ichlorophenylamino)-2-imidazoline
hydrochloride, e.g., Catapres, Boehringer Ingelheim), clonidine (IH-Imidazol-2-amine, N-(2,6
dichlorophenyl)4,5-dihydro-CAS RN 4205-90-7), Hyzaar (Merck; a combination of losartan and
hydrochlorothiazide), Co-Diovan (Novartis; a combination of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide,
Lotrel (Novartis; a combination of benazepril and amlodipine) and Caduet (Pfizer; a combination
of amlodipine and atorvastatin), and those agents disclosed in US2003006922 1.
                         1.2.2.11       Agents for the Treatment of Respiratory Disorders
[157]    The GCC agonist peptides described herein can be used in combination therapy with one
or more of the following agents useful in the treatment of respiratory and other disorders
including but not limited to: ( 1 ) p-agonists including but not limited to : albuterol (PRO
VENTIL@, S ALBUT AMOI@, VENTOLIN@), bambuterol, bitoterol, clenbuterol, fenoterol,
formoterol, isoetharine (BRONKOSOL, BRONKOM ETER), metaproterenol (ALUPENT,
METAPREL), pirbuterol (MAXAIR), reproterol, rimiterol, salmeterol, terbutaline
(BRETHAIRE, BRETHINE@, BRICANYL), adrenalin, isoproterenol (ISUPREL),
epinephrine bitartrate (PRIMATENE), ephedrine, orciprenline, fenoterol and isoetharine; (2)
steroids, including but not limited to beclomethasone, beclomethasone dipropionate,
betamethasone, budesonide, bunedoside, butixocort, dexamethasone, flunisolide, fluocortin,
fluticasone, hydrocortisone, methyl prednisone, mometasone, predonisolone, predonisone,
tipredane, tixocortal, triamcinolone, and triamcinolone acetonide; (3)   p2-agonist-corticosteroid
combinations [e.g., salmeterol-fluticasone (AD V AIR@), formoterol-budesonid (S
YMBICORT@)] ; (4) leukotriene D4 receptor antagonists/leukotriene antagonists/LTD4
antagonists (i.e., any compound that is capable of blocking, inhibiting, reducing or otherwise
                                                   89

interrupting the interaction between leukotrienes and the Cys LTI receptor) including but not
limited to: zafhiukast, montelukast, montelukast sodium (SINGULAIR@), pranlukast, iralukast,
pobilukast, SKB-106,203 and compounds described as having LTD4 antagonizing activity
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,565,473; (5) 5 -lipoxygenase inhibitors and/or leukotriene
biosynthesis inhibitors [e.g., zileuton and BAY1005 (CA registry 128253-31-6)]; (6) histamine
Hl receptor antagonists/antihistamines (i.e., any compound that is capable of blocking, inhibiting,
reducing or otherwise interrupting the interaction between histamine and its receptor) including
but not limited to: astemizole, acrivastine, antazoline, azatadine, azelastine, astamizole,
bromopheniramine, bromopheniramine maleate, carbinoxamine, carebastine, cetirizine,
chlorpheniramine, chloropheniramine maleate, cimetidine clemastine, cyclizine, cyproheptadine,
descarboethoxyloratadine, dexchlorpheniramine, dimethindene, diphenhydramine,
diphenylpyraline, doxylamine succinate, doxylarnine, ebastine, efletirizine, epinastine,
famotidine, fexofenadine, hydroxyzine, hydroxyzine, ketotifen, levocabastine, levocetirizine,
levocetirizine, loratadine, meclizine, mepyramine, mequitazine, methdilazine, mianserin,
mizolastine, noberastine, norasternizole, noraztemizole, phenindamine, pheniramine, picumast,
promethazine, pynlamine, pyrilamine, ranitidine, temelastine, terfenadine, trimeprazine,
tripelenamine, and triprolidine; (7) an anticholinergic including but not limited to: atropine,
benztropine, biperiden, flutropium, hyoscyamine (e.g. Levsin@; Levbid@; Levsin/SL@,
Anaspaz@, Levsinex timecaps@, NuLev@), ilutropium, ipratropium, ipratropium bromide,
methscopolamine, oxybutinin, rispenzepine, scopolamine, and tiotropium; (8) an anti-tussive
including but not limited to: dextromethorphan, codeine, and hydromorphone; (9) a decongestant
including but not limited to: pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine; (10) an expectorant
including butt     limited to: guafenesin, guaicolsulfate, terpin, ammonium chloride, glycerol
guaicolate, and iodinated glycerol; (11) a bronchodilator including but not limited to:
theophylline and aminophylline; (12) an anti-inflammatory including but not limited to:
fluribiprofen, diclophenac, indomethacin, ketoprofen, S-ketroprophen, tenoxicam; (13) a PDE
(phosphodiesterase) inhibitor including but not limited to those disclosed herein; (14) a
recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody [e.g. xolair (also called omalizumab), rhuMab, and
talizumab]; (15) a humanized lung surfactant including recombinant forms of surfactant proteins
SP-B, SP-C or SP-D [e.g. SURFAXIN@, formerly known as dsc-104 (Discovery Laboratories)],
(16) agents that inhibit epithelial sodium channels (ENaC) such as amiloride and related
                                                  90

compounds; (17) antimicrobial agents used to treat pulmonary infections such as acyclovir,
amikacin, amoxicillin, doxycycline, trimethoprin sulfamethoxazole, amphotericin B,
azithromycin, clarithromycin, roxithromycin, clarithromycin, cephalosporins( ceffoxitin,
cefmetazole etc), ciprofloxacin, ethambutol, gentimycin, ganciclovir, imipenem, isoniazid,
itraconazole, penicillin, ribavirin, rifampin, rifabutin,amantadine, rimantidine, streptomycin,
tobramycin, and vancomycin; (18) agents that activate chloride secretion through Ca++
dependent chloride channels (such as purinergic receptor (P2Y(2) agonists); (19) agents that
decrease sputum viscosity, such as human recombinant DNase 1, (Pulmozyme@); (20)
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (acemetacin, acetaminophen, acetyl salicylic acid,
alclofenac, alminoprofen, apazone, aspirin, benoxaprofen, bezpiperylon, bucloxic acid,
carprofen, clidanac, diclofenac, diclofenac, diflunisal, diflusinal, etodolac, fenbufen, fenbufen,
fenclofenac, fenclozic acid, fenoprofen, fentiazac, feprazone, flufenamic acid, flufenisal,
flufenisal, fluprofen, flurbiprofen, flurbiprofen, furofenac, ibufenac, ibuprofen, indomethacin,
indomethacin, indoprofen, isoxepac, isoxicam, ketoprofen, ketoprofen, ketorolac, meclofenamic
acid, meclofenamic acid, mefenamic acid, mefenamic acid, miroprofen, mofebutazone,
nabumetone oxaprozin, naproxen, naproxen, niflumic acid , oxaprozin, oxpinac,
oxyphenbutazone, phenacetin, phenylbutazone, phenylbutazone, piroxicam, piroxicam,
pirprofen, pranoprofen, sudoxicam, tenoxican, sulfasalazine, sulindac, sulindac, suprofen,
tiaprofenic acid, tiopinac, tioxaprofen, tolfenamic acid, tolmetin, tolmetin, zidometacin,
zomepirac, and zomepirac); and (21) aerosolized antioxidant therapeutics such as S
Nitrosoglutathione.
                         1.2.2.12        Anti-Diabetic Agents
 [158]  The GCC agonist peptides described herein can be used in therapeutic combination with
one or more anti-diabetic agents, including but not limited to: PPARy agonists such as glitazones
(e.g., WAY-120,744, AD 5075, balaglitazone, ciglitazone, darglitazone (CP-86325, Pfizer),
englitazone (CP-68722, Pfizer), isaglitazone (MIT/J&J), MCC- 555 (Mitsibishi disclosed in
 US5594016), pioglitazone (such as such as ActosTM pioglitazone; Takeda), rosiglitazone
(AvandiaTM;Smith Kline Beecham), rosiglitazone maleate, troglitazone (Rezulin@, disclosed in
 US4572912), rivoglitazone (CS-Ol 1, Sankyo), GL-262570 (Glaxo Welcome), BRL49653
(disclosed in W098/05331), CLX-0921, 5-BTZD, GW-0207, LG- 100641, JJT-501
                                                   91

(JPNT/P&U), L-895645 (Merck), R-l 19702 (Sankyo/Pfizer), NN-2344 (Dr. Reddy/NN), YM
440 (Yamanouchi), LY-300512, LY-519818, R483 (Roche), T131 (Tularik), and the like and
compounds disclosed in US4687777, US5002953, US5741803, US5965584, US6150383,
US6150384, US6166042, US6166043, US6172090, US6211205, US6271243, US6288095,
US6303640, US6329404, US5994554, W097/10813, W097/27857, W097/28115,
W097/28137,WO97/27847, WO00/76488, WO03/000685,WO03/02 7112,WOO3/035602,
W003/048 130, WO03/055867, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof; biguanides such
as metformin hydrochloride (N,N-dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride, such as
Glucophage TM,Bristol-Myers Squibb); metformin hydrochloride with glyburide, such as
Glucovance T M,Bristol-Myers Squibb); buformin (Imidodicarbonimidic diamide, N-butyl-);
etoformine (l-Butyl-2-ethylbiguanide, Schering A. G.); other metformin salt forms (including
where the salt is chosen from the group of, acetate, benzoate, citrate, ftimarate, embonate,
chlorophenoxyacetate, glycolate, palmoate, aspartate, methanesulphonate, maleate,
parachlorophenoxyisobutyrate, formate, lactate, succinate, sulphate, tartrate,
cyclohexanecarboxylate, hexanoate, octanoate, decanoate, hexadecanoate, octodecanoate,
benzenesulphonate, trimethoxybenzoate, paratoluenesul phonate, adamantanecarboxylate,
glycoxylate, glutamate, pyrrol idonecarboxylate, naphthalenesulphonate, I -glucosephosphate,
nitrate, sulphite, dithionate and phosphate), and phenformin; protein tyrosine phosphatase- IB
(PTP-IB) inhibitors, such as A-401,674, KR 61639, OC- 060062, OC-83839, OC-297962,
MC52445, MC52453, ISIS 113715, and those disclosed in W099/585521, W099/58518,
W099/58522, W099/61435, WO03/032916, WO03/032982, W003/041729, WO03/055883,
WO02/26707, WO02/26743, JP2002114768, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters
thereof; sulfonylureas such as acetobexamide (e.g. Dymelor, Eli Lilly), carbutamide,
chlorpropamide (e.g. Diabinese@, Pfizer), gliamilide (Pfizer), gliclazide (e.g. Diamcron, Servier
Canada Inc), glimepiride (e.g. disclosed in US4379785, such as Amaryl , Aventis), glipentide,
glipizide (e.g. Glucotrol or Glucotrol XL Extended Release, Pfizer), gliquidone, glisolamide,
glyburide/glibenclamide (e.g. Micronase or Glynase Prestab, Pharmacia & Upjohn and Diabeta,
Aventis), tolazamide (e.g. Tolinase), and tolbutarnide (e.g. Orinase), and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof, meglitinides such as repaglinide (e.g. Pranidin@, Novo
Nordisk), KAD 1229 (PF/Kissei), and nateglinide (e.g. Starlix@, Novartis), and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof, a glucoside hydrolase inhibitors (or glucoside inhibitors) such
                                                 92

as acarbose (e.g. Precose TM, Bayer disclosed in US4904769), miglitol (such as GLYSET TM,
Pharmacia & Upjohn disclosed in US4639436), camiglibose (Methyl 6-deoxy-6-[(2R,3R,4R,5S)
3 ,4,5-trihydroxy-2- (hydroxymethyl)piperidino]-alpha-D-glucopyranoside, Marion Merrell
Dow), voglibose (Takeda), adiposine, emiglitate, pradimicin-Q, salbostatin, CKD-71 1, MDL
25,637, MDL- 73,945, and MOR 14, and the compounds disclosed in US4062950, US4174439,
US4254256, US4701559, US4639436, US5192772, US4634765, US5157116, US5504078,
US5091418, US5217877, US51091 and WOO 1/47528 (polyamines); a-amylase inhibitors such
as tendamistat, trestatin, and Al -3688, and the compounds disclosed in US4451455,
US4623714, and US4273765; SGLT2 inhibtors including those disclosed in US6414126 and
US65 15 117; an aP2 inhibitor such as disclosed in US6548529; insulin secreatagogues such as
linogliride, A-4166, forskilin, dibutyrl cAMP, isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX), and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; fatty acid oxidation inhibitors, such as
clomoxir, and etomoxir, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; A2
antagonists, such as midaglizole, isaglidole, deriglidole, idazoxan, earoxan, and fluparoxan, and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; insulin and related compounds (e.g. insulin
mimetics) such as biota, LP-100, novarapid, insulin detemir, insulin lispro, insulin glargine,
insulin zinc suspension (lente and ultralente), Lys-Pro insulin, GLP-I (1-36) amide, GLP-I (73-7)
(insulintropin, disclosed in US5614492), LY-315902 (Lilly), GLP-I (7-36)-NH2), AL-401
(Autoimmune), certain compositions as disclosed in US4579730, US4849405, US4963526,
US5642868, US5763396, US5824638, US5843866, US6153632, US6191105, and WO
85/05029, and primate, rodent, or rabbit insulin including biologically active variants thereof
including allelic variants, more preferably human insulin available in recombinant form (sources
of human insulin include pharmaceutically acceptable and sterile formulatins such as those
available from Eli Lilly (Indianapolis, Ind. 46285) as HIumulinTM (human insulin rDNA origin),
also see the THE PHYSICIAN'S DESK REFERENCE, 55.sup.th Ed. (2001) Medical
Economics, Thomson Healthcare (disclosing other suitable human insulins); non
thiazolidinediones such as JT-501 and farglitazar (GW-2570/GI- 262579), and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts and esters thereof; PPARu/y dual agonists such as AR-H039242 (Aztrazeneca),
GW-409544 (Glaxo-Wellcome), BVT-142, CLX-0940, GW-1536, GW-1929, GW-2433, KRP
297 (Kyorin Merck; 5-[(2,4-Dioxo thiazolidinyl)methyl] methoxy-N-[[4
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] methyljbenzamide), L-796449, LR-90, MK-0767
                                                 93

(Merck/Kyorin/Banyu), SB 219994, muraglitazar (BMS), tesaglitzar (Astrazeneca), reglitazar
(JTT-501) and those disclosed in W099/16758, W099/193 13, W099/20614, W099/38850,
WOOO/23415, WOOO/23417, WOOO/23445, WO00/50414, WOo1/00579, WOO1/79150,
WO02/062799, W003/004458, WO03/016265, WO03/O018010, WO03/033481, W003/033450,
WO03/033453, W003/043985, WO 031053976, U.S. application Ser. No. 09/664,598, filed Sep.
18, 2000, Murakami et al. Diabetes 47, 1841-1847 (1998), and pharmaceutically acceptable salts
and esters thereof; other insulin sensitizing drugs; VPAC2 receptor agonists; GLK modulators,
such as those disclosed in W003/01 5774; retinoid modulators such as those disclosed in
WO03/000249; GSK 3fp/GSK 3 inhibitors such as 4-[2-(2-bromophenyl)-4-(4-fluorophenyl-IH
imidazol-5- yl]pyridine and those compounds disclosed in W003/024447, WO03/037869,
WO03/037877, W003/037891, W003/068773, EP1295884, EP1295885, and the like; glycogen
phosphorylase (HGLPa) inhibitors such as CP-368,296, CP-3 16,819, BAYR3401, and
compounds disclosed in WOO 1/94300, WO02/20530, WO03/037864, and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts or esters thereof; ATP consumption promotors such as those disclosed in
WO03/007990; TRB3 inhibitors; vanilloid receptor ligands such as those disclosed in
WO03/049702; hypoglycemic agents such as those disclosed in WOO3/0 15781 and
WO03/040114; glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibitors such as those disclosed in W003/035663
agents such as those disclosed in WO99/51225, US20030134890, WOO1/24786, and
WO03/059870; insulin-responsive DNA binding protein-i (IRDBP-I) as disclosed in
WOO3/057827, and the like; adenosine A2 antagonists such as those disclosed in WO03/035639,
WOO3/035640, and the like; PPAR6 agonists such as GW 501516, GW 590735, and compounds
disclosed in JP10237049 and WOO2/14291; dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DP-IV) inhibitors, such as
isoleucine thiazolidide, NVP-DPP728A (1- [[[2-[(5-cyanopyridin-2
yl)amino]ethyl]amino]acetyl] -2-cyano-(S)-pyrrol idine, disclosed by Hughes et al, Biochemistry,
38(36), 11597-11603, 1999), P32/98, NVP-LAF-237, P3298, TSL225 (tryptophyl-l,2,3,4
tetrahydro-isoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid, disclosed by Yamada et al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem.
Lett. 8 (1998) 1537-1540), valine pyrrolidide, TMC-2A/2B/2C, CD- 26 inhibitors, FE99901 1,
P931 0/K3 64, VIP 0177, DPP4, SDZ 274-444, 2-cyanopyrrolid ides and 4-cyanopyrrolidides as
disclosed by Ashworth et al, Bioorg. & Med. Chem. Lett., Vol. 6, No. 22, pp 1163-1166 and
2745-2748 (1996) ,and the compounds disclosed in US6395767, US6573287, US6395767
(compounds disclosed include BMS-477118, BMS-47121 I and BMS 538,305), WO99/38501,
                                                  94

W099/46272, W099/67279, W099/67278, W099/61431 W003/004498, W003/004496,
EP1258476, WO02/083128, WO02/062764, WO03/000250, W003/002530, WO03/002531,
W003/002553, W003/002593, WO03/000 180, and WO03/000181; GLP-I agonists such as
exendin-3 and exendin-4 (including the 39 aa polypeptide synthetic exendin-4 called
Exenatide@), and compounds disclosed in US2003087821 and NZ 504256, and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof; peptides including amlintide and Symlin@
(pramlintide acetate); and glycokinase activators such as those disclosed in US2002103199
(fused heteroaromatic compounds) and W002/48106 (isoindolin- 1-one-substituted propionamide
compounds).
[159]     All patents, patent applications, and publications mentioned herein are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entireties. However, where a patent, patent application, or
publication containing express definitions is incorporated by reference, those express definitions
should be understood to apply to the incorporated patent, patent application, or publication in
which they are found, and not to the remainder of the text of this application. In the case of
conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control. The references cited herein
are not admitted to be prior art to the invention.
[160]     It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction with the
preferred specific embodiments thereof, that the foregoing description is intended to illustrate
and not limit the scope of the invention. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that
various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the
scope of the invention, and further that other aspects, advantages and modifications will be
apparent to those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains.
                                             EXAMPLES
Example 1: Preparation of side-chain protected fragments of SP-304
[161]     Attachment Fmoc-AA-OH to 2-CITrt resin
[162]     2-CITrt resin (10 g, substitution =1.0 mmol/g resin) was suspended in 100 mL of
dichloromethane (DCM) for 5 minutes, and then drained. The esterification was performed
                                                   95

using 1.5 equiv. of Fmoc-amino acid and 1.7 equiv. Diisopropylethylamine (DIEA) in 80 mL of
DCM (with minimum quantity of dimethylformamide (DMF) to dissolve the amino acid
completely) for 2 hours. The resulting resin was washed with 60 mL of DCM and endcapped
with 60 mL of DIEA/methanol (1:9, v/v) solution for 30 minutes. The loaded resin was then
washed with DCM (6 vol.) for 2 times, DMF (6 vol.) for 3 times and methyl t-butylether (MTBE)
(6 vol.) for 3 times, and dried under high vacuum. The substitution of the Fmoc-protected resin
was determined by Fmoc release assay. Finally, the Fmoc group was deprotected with a mixture
of 5% piperidine, 1% 1,8-diazobicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU) and 1% N
Hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBt) in DMF (10 vol.) for 2 times and the resin was washed and dried
under high vacuum to give the final resin for peptide synthesis. The results of the experiments
are listed in Table VIII below.
               Table VIII. Preparation of H-Gly-2CITrt and H-Leu-2CITrt resin
   Amino acid 2-ClTrt        Synthesis scale   Substitution of the loaded      Yield
   resin                     (mmol)            resin from Fmoc release assay   (Weight, % yield)
   H-Gly-2CITrt resin       4.16               0.57mmol/g resin                6g, 82%
   H-Leu-2CITrt resin        5.20              0.81 mmol/g resin               6.4g, 100%
   H-Gly-2CITrt resin        300               0.80mmol/g resin                328.6g, 88%
   H-Leu-2CITrt resin        300               0.75mmol/g resin                338.5g, 84%
[163]     Synthesis of side-chain-protected fragments A and B
[164]     H-Gly-2-ClTrt resin or H-Leu-2-CITrt resin was suspended in DMF (10 vol.) for 20
minutes, then drained. The resulting resin was washed with DMF (10 vol.) for 5 minutes. The
chain assembly was conducted using the standard Fmoc chemistry. Generally, 1.5 equiv. of
Fmoc amino acid and 1.5 equiv. of HOBt were dissolved in DMF (4.5 vol.), followed by
addition of 1.5 equiv. of DIEA. Then, the resulting solution was cooled to below 5 0 C with an
ice water bath, and activated by addition of 1.5 equiv. of HBTU. DCM (1.5 vol.) was added to
the resin, followed by addition of the activated Frnoc amino acid solution. The resulting mixture
                                                  96

was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and the completion of the acylation was monitored
by Kaiser Test. If Kaiser Test indicated the presence of unreacted amine after 2 hours,
recoupling with the same protocol using 1.0 equiv. of Fmoc amino acid, 1.0 equiv. of HOBt and
 1.0 equiv. of DIEA was required. Capping was generally achieved by acetylating the unreacted
amine with a mixture of acetic anhydride/pyridine/DMF solution. The peptide sequence was
assembled by repeating the above capping procedure with the corresponding Fmoc-amino acid
derivatives in the sequence from C- to N-terminal. The coupling of Fmoc-Cys(Trt)-OH or
Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-OH residue was achieved by using 2.0 equiv. of Fmoc-Cys(Trt)-OH or Fmoc
Cys(Acm)-OH, 2.0 of equiv. HOBt and 2.0 equiv. of DIC in situ activation in DCM/DMF
protocol to minimize racemization of cysteine.
[165]     After completion of the synthetic step, the peptide resin was thoroughly washed with
DMF (10 vol.), MTBE (10 vol.), DMF (10 vol. 3 times) and MTBE (10 vol. 3 times) and
subsequently dried in a vacuum oven to a constant weight.
[166]     The side-chain-protected peptide was cleaved from the resin usingl%TFA/DCM (10
vol.) for 3 times, 5 minutes for each time and the cleavage fractions were collected onto pyridine
each time (1:1 volume ratio to TFA in each cleavage fraction). The peptide resin was washed
with DCM (7.5 vol.). The fractions were combined and concentrated under vacuum to 10% of
the original volume, and the resulting solution was reconstituted with ethanol (3 vol.) and
concentrated to 50% of the original volume. Finally, the peptide was precipitated out by addition
of water (1 vol.). The solid was collected by vacuum filtration or centrifugation and washed with
water twice. The product was dried in vacuum to a constant weight and subjected to HPLC and
ES-MS analysis. The results of the experiments are presented in Table IX below.
                          Table IX. Preparation of Fragments A and B
Fragment                  Synthesis    Final peptide       Yield of    Purity    Fragment Masses
                          scale        resin weight and    Fragment    (HPLC)    Calculated/Found*
                          (mmol)       yield from the      obtained
                                       weight gain of      (%yield)
                                      the resin
                                                  97

FmocAA7-140H (1)          3.4          9.5g, 66.4%       3.337g      87.8%     1599.95/1598.86
                                                         (61.3%)
BocAAI-60H (2)            5.2          11.8g, 76.3%      5.896g      94.6%     1474.80/1473.94
                                                         (76.9%)
FmocAA7-140H (1')         200          479.7g, 74.4%     213.7g      90.1%     1599.95/1598.81
                                                         (66.8%)
BocAA I-60H (2')          200          544.0g, 101.3%    247.Og      94.2%     1474.80/1473.94
                                                         (83.7%)
*Calculated = average molecular mass; Found = mono-isotopic mass by ES-MS
Example 2: Condensation of fragments of SP-304 in solution
[167]    Synthesis of fragment C: H-AA I5-160tBu (1-1)
[168]    A solution of Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-OH (124.38 gm, 0.3 mol), H-Leu-OtBu.HCl (67.12 gm,
0.3 mol), and HOBt (40.54 gm, 0.3 mol) in DMF (600 mL) was cooled to -5 0C. 2-[1H
Benzotriazole-1-yl]-I,1I ,3,3-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate (HBTU) (113.79 gm, 0.3
mol) was added and dissolved completely. DIEA (183.1 mL, 1.05 mol) was added dropwise
over a period of 105 minutes at the same temperature with good stirring, keeping the pH of the
mixture between 6 and 7. Stirring was continued for 15 minutes at 0 0C and the reaction was
monitored with TLC. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate (EtOAc) (600 mL) and
5% H3PO4 (300 mL). The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with
EtOAc (600 mL). The combined extracts were washed with 5% H3PO4(2 times), H2 0 (1 time),
saturated NaHCO 3 (3 times), H2 0 (2 times), and brine (2 times). The solution was dried over
MgSO 4 anhydrous, filtered, and evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The product was recrystallized
from petroleum ether/EtOAc (3:1) and dried: 166.75 gn (yield 95.0%, purity 99.0%).
                                                  98

[169]    Fmoc-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OtBu (166.75 gin, 0.277 mol) was dissolved in a 10%
piperidine/DCM solution (810 mL) with stirring. The reaction was monitored with TLC. After
the reaction was completed in 3 hours, the solvent and the volatile materials were removed using
a rotavap. The oily material obtained was triturated with petroleum ether to remove the by
products by decantation. The residue, a syrup, was taken up in EtOAc, and washed with a
mixture solution of NaH 2PO 4/Na 2HPO 4 (pH=6), then saturated NaHCO 3, purified H20, and
brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO 4 anhydrous. Evaporation of the solvent and the
volatile materials yielded an oily product H-Cys(Acm)-Leu-OtBu (1-1) (73.23 gm, yield: 73.1%,
purity: 98.0%).
[170]    Synthesis of fragment B-C: HAA7-160tBu (2-3)
[171]    A solution of Fmoc-AA7-140H (1') (198.3 gm, 124.0 mmol), H-AAI5-160tBu (1-1)
(52.3 gm, 148.8 minol) and Cl-HOBt (21.0 gm, 124.0 nnol) in DMF (2500 mL) was cooled to
5 C. HBTU (51.7 gm, 136.4 nmmol) was added and dissolved completely. DIEA (54.1 mL, 310
mmol) was then added with stirring, keeping the pH of the mixture between 6 and 7. Stirring
was continued for 30 minutes at 0-5 'C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm up to 20-27
'C slowly and stirring was continued for one and a half hours. Then, the mixture was poured into
precooled (10-20 C) 0.5 N HCI aq. (20 L).The suspension was stored at 20-25 'C for 45 minutes.
The solid was collected by filtering the suspension through a fritted-glass funnel of medium
porosity and subsequent washing with 0.5 N HCl aq.(3500 mL, 2 times), purified water (3500
mL), saturated NaHCO 3 aq. (3500 mL, 2 times) and purified water (3500 mL, 2 times) and
diethyl ether (2000 mL, 2 times). Finally, the wet, crude peptide FmocAA7-l6OtBu (2-3) was
dried in a desiccator under high vacuum at room temperature to yield product 238.22 gm (purity,
85.27%, yield 98.9%).
[172]    Synthesis of the fully protected A-B-C: BocAA I-160tBu (3-3)
[173]    A solution of HAA7-l6OtBu (2-3) (183.67 gm, 106.71 mmol), BocAA 1-6-OH (2')
(157.65 gm, 106.71 mmol), and 6-Cl-HOBt (18.141 gn, 106.71 nmol) in DMF (3 L) were
cooled to at -3 to 0 'C. HBTU (44.523 gin, 17.38 mmol) was added and dissolved completely.
DIEA (55.8 nL, 320.13 mmol) was then added with stirring, keeping the pH of the mixture 6.
Stirring was continued for 20 minutes at -5 to 00 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm
                                                99

up to 25 'C slowly and stirring was continued for 2.5 hours, followed by further addition of
HBTU (4.048 gm, 10.671 minol) and DIEA (2 mL). Stirring was continued for another 1.5
hours. The resulting mixture was poured into MeOH (15 L), and the precipitate was collected
and washed with MeOH/DMF mixture (5:1, v/v) (2 times, 3 L), 0.IN HCI (3 L, 2 times),
saturated NaHCO 3 (2 times), purified water (3 times), diethyl ether (2 times) and dried in vacuo
to yield the product BocAA1-160tBu (3-3) (278.0 gm, yield 82.0%. Note: the purity was
determined after the deprotection).
[174]     Synthesis of the Partially Protected Linear SP-304: HAAI-160H (4-4)
[175]     A mixture of TFA/TIS/EDT (8:1:1, 2400 mL) was cooled to (0-5'C) under nitrogen and
Boc-AA I-160tBu (3-3) (201 gin) was added in portions. The resulting suspension was stirred at
0-1 00 C for 30 min, then the reaction solution was allowed to warm up to 20-25'C with a water
bath (10 minutes) and stirring was continued for additional lhr and 50 min at the same
temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into pre-cooled (10 C) MTBE (18 L). Some heat
was evolved during the addition of the peptide/TFA solution and the internal temperature went
up to 25 'C. The resulting suspension was then stored in an ice-water bath (5-10 C) for 40 min.
The precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with MTBE (2000 mL, 4 times), and dried
in vacuum over P2 0 5 , yielding 148.37 gm of off-white product, HAA1-160H (4-4) (purity:
62.23%, ES-MS, MW: calculated= 1828.07, found=] 826.67).
Example 3: Oxidative cyclization and purification of SP-304 by polystyrenic absorbent
resin
[176]     HAA 1-160H (4-4) (0.58 gm) was dissolved in 5 mL of acetonitrile and diluted with 575
mL of purified water. The solution was adjusted to pH 8-9 with 25% ammonia solution, and 3%
hydrogen peroxide (0.58 mL) was added, then the reaction mixture was kept for an hour with
monitoring the disulfide formation by HPLC. Nitrogen was then passed through the reaction
mixture and the solution was acidified to pH 3-4 with acetic acid (71.8% HPLC, recovery 98.5%
estimated from peak area). The resulting mixture was added 1% iodine/ACN dropwise over a
period of 10 minutes with good stirring until the yellow color of the iodine persisted. Stirring
was continued for 30 minutes at 17-20 C. The iodine was quenched by addition of 0.5 M
                                                 100

ascorbic acid aq. until the yellow disappeared. Then, the pH of the mixture was adjusted to 6-7
with 25% ammonia solution (51.0% HPLC, recovery 50% estimated from peak area).
[177]    The polystyrenic absorbent resin (D10 1) was packed to a 3(ID)    x 9(L) CM column and
well equilibrated with 6 column volume (CV) of ethanol, 4 CV of purified water, 2 CV of 5%
HCI aq., 4 CV of purified water, 2 CV of 2% NaOH aq. and 4 CV of purified water at the flow
rate of 3 CV/hour. The oxidized peptide solution was then loaded to the column at 2 CV/h.
After loading, the column was washed with 2 CV purified water at 2 CV/h. The elution was
conducted by applying 80% ethanol aq. to the column at 2 CV/h. The fractions with UV
absorbents at 215 nm, was collected and combined (125 mL). The combined fractions were then
evaporated in vacuum to 10% of the original volume and the suspension was precipitated with
 125 mL of cold MTBE (10 vol). The solid was collected by filtration and dried in vacuum to
yield the crude SP-304 (0.282 g, 55.0% HPLC).
Example 4: Oxidative cyclization and purification of SP-304 by RP-HPLC
[178]     Crude peptide (4-4), prepared as described in Example 2 was dissolved in 10% ACN
aqueous to an approximate concentration of 1.25 g/L with continuous stirring via a mechanical
stirrer. The pH of the peptide solution was adjusted to 8.5-9.0 with 20% ammonia aqueous and
the resulting solution was stirred vigorously open to the atmosphere. Hydrogen peroxide (3%,
0.25 equiv.) was added and stirring was continued at room temperature for 60 minutes. The
HPLC analysis showed complete consumption of the linear peptide. Then, the solution was
acidified to pH 3-4 with 10% AcOH aqueous. The resulting solution was diluted to a
concentration of about I g/L with purified water. Iodine (1.3% in ACN) was added in with
vigorous stirring over a period of 10 minutes until the yellow color of the iodine persisted. At
about half-hourly intervals samples were taken from the mixture and analyzed by RP-HPLC.
The monocyclized peptide peak decreased gradually and a new peak (dicyclized peptide)
emerged. Oxidation was complete when no monocyclized peptide peak left. The excess iodine
was neutralized by a small amount of ascorbic acid. The resulting solution was loaded on a C18
RP-HPLC column packed with Kromasil 100A, I0tm silica gel. After the dicyclized peptide
solution was loaded, a 3 column volume of a solution of 90% mobile phase A (1.0%TEA,
0.5%H 3 P   4 in H 2 0, pH=7) and 10% mobile phase B (acetonitrile) was loaded to wash out lines.
Then, gradient was operated from 10% B to 30% B in 80 minutes. Fractions were collected at
                                                 101

recorded intervals when main peak began to elute. The purity of each fraction was monitored by
analytical RP-HPLC. Fractions of purity <95% (not meeting the Main Pool criteria) were pooled
accordingly and forward processed using the same buffer system and gradient elution parameters
stated above. All fractions with purity >95% were pooled and stored at 2-81C. The purified
peptide solution was diluted in a 1:1 ratio with purified water and then loaded to the same RP
HPLC column. The counter-ion exchange was accomplished by washing the column with 2-3
column volumes of 0.5M ammonium acetate aqueous, followed by gradient elution from 90% C
(0.2% AcOH aqueous solution) and 10% mobile phase D (ACN) to 50% mobile phase C and
50% mobile phase D in 50 minutes. Fractions were collected at recorded intervals and
monitored by analytical RP-HPLC. The fractions (>95%) were collected and lyophilized to
obtain final dry peptide, 68.Og (96.1% pure).
Example 5: Desalination and isolation of SP-304 after purification by RP-HPLC
[179]    After plecanatide was purified by RP-HPLC as described in Example 4, it was
desalinated and isolated. Briefly, the purified plecanatide in ammonium
acetate/acetonitrile/water buffer was loaded onto a column packed with polymeric absorbent
(macroporous adsorption resin) and then eluted by a mixture of alcohol/water. Finally, the
peptide alcohol solution was concentrated under reduced pressure, precipitated with an ether, e.g.,
diethyl ether or MTBE, and dried under vacuum to give the final product.
[180]    Resin (Polymeric Adsorbents) Screening
[181]    Resin pre-treatment: Polymeric adsorbents, DA20 1-C (from Jiangsu Suqing, China;
crosslinked polystyrene; surface area 1200-1400 m2/g; average pore diameter: 3-4 nm; pore
volume: 1.1-1.2 ml/g; bulk density: 0.68-0.75 g/ml; specific density: 1.03-1.1 g/ml; moisture: 50
60%; particle size: 0.315-1.25 mm      95%; effective diameter: 0.4-0.7 mm; uniformity
coefficient: <1.6%), DA201-H (from Jiangsu Suqing, China; crosslinked polystyrene; surface
area >800 m2 /g; average pore diameter: 6-8 nm; pore volume: 1.5-1.8 ml/g; bulk density: 0.65
0.70 g/ml; specific density: 1.02-1.07 g/ml; moisture: 55-65%; particle size: 0.315-1.25 mm
  95%; effective diameter: 0.4-0.7 mm; uniformity coefficient: <1.6% ), ADS-5 (from Nankai
Hecheng, China; crosslinked polystyrene; surface area 520-600 m2 /g; average pore diameter: 25
                                                 102

30 nm; bulk density: 0.7-0.8 g/ml; moisture: 60-70%; particle size: 0.3 151.25 mm       95%;
uniformity coefficient:   1.6% ), and ADS-8 (from Nankai Hecheng, China; crosslinked
polystyrene; surface area 450-500 m2/g; average pore diameter: 12-16 nm; bulk density: 0.65
0.75 g/ml; moisture: 60-70%; particle size: 0.3 15~1.25 mm       95%; uniformity coefficient:
<1.6%) were suspended in 4-6 volume of ethanol overnight. Decant or suction off the
supernatant from the settled resin. Add 6-8 volume of deionized water and resuspend the resin
with gentle overhead stirring. Again, decant or suction off the supernatant from the settled resin.
Repeat the above water treatment and decantation steps until fines appearance is minimal.
[182]     Column packing and regeneration: Resuspend the pre-treated resins above with 1-2
volume of deionized water to form the resin slurry respectively by using gentle agitation. Pour
the resin slurry slowly down the inside of the column to prevent air entrapment. After the resin
slurry has been fully transferred to the column, rinse the inside of the column using a squirt
bottle containing deionized water. Open the column outlet to from a settled resin bed (ID=4cm,
H=10cm). Then the resin beds were washed successively at a flow rate of 3CV per hour by 4
CV of deionized water, 2CV of 5% HCI aq, 4CV of deionized water, 2CV of 2% NaOH aq and
finally 4 CV of deionized water till the pH of the elute was around 7.
[183]    Preparation of loading samples: 2000mg of lyophilized plecanatide was dissolved in a
mixture of 60mL of ACN and 150mL of 0.2% AcOH aq (the pH of the AcOH aq was adjusted to
4 with 10% ammonia aq.). After filtration with 1.2 tm Nylon membrane, the filtrate was diluted
to 250 mL with 0.2% AcOH aq (pH4) and split into 4 parts (62.5 mL each) for loading.
[184]    Loading the sample to the columns: 62.5 mL of peptide solution above was loaded
onto the above 4 columns at a flow rate of 2CV/h respectively. The loading elute was collected
and tested by RP-HPLC to evaluate the absorbent capacity of each resin. The absorbent capacity
results of each resin were demonstrated in Table X below.
                                              Table X
       Resins          Peptide in loading sample        Peptide absorbed       Absorbent ratio
       DA201-C                     500mg                      303.5mg               60.7%
                                                 103

       DA201-H                     500mg                    493.4mg                98.7%
       ADS-5                       500mg                    450.5mg                90.1%
       ADS-8                       500mg                    466.1mg                93.2%
[185]    HPLC Method: HPLC machine: Shimadzu LC-IOAD vp; column: Kromasil, C18,
4.6x250mm ; mobile phase A: 0.1%TFA in water; mobile phase B: 0.1%TFA in ACN; detect at:
215nm; column temperature: 40'C; flow rate: I.OmL/min; gradient: 25%B to 45% B in 30 min.
[1 86]   Absorbent Capacity Calculation: The absorbent capacity of each resin was
demonstrated by the absorbent ratio of the peptide loaded onto each column, which was
calculated by the quantity of the peptide absorbed in each resin column divided by the peptide
quantity in each loading sample (500mg). The quantity of peptide absorbed in each column was
calculated by the formula below:
[187]    Quantity of peptide absorbed=Quantity of peptide in the loading sample-Quantity of
peptide in the loading elute= 500mg- 62.5mLx (1.6mg/mL x HPLC peak area of the
eluate/HPLC peak area of the peptide standard solution)
[188]    Washing the Column with Deionized Water: The loaded columns above were then
washed with 2CV of deionized water at 2CV/h to remove the salts. The washing eluates were
collected and analyzed by RP-HPLC to determine the peptide quantity desorbed by water using
the same method above. The desorbed peptide ratios of each resin were listed in Table XI below.
                                             Table XI
    Resins          Peptide absorbed in resin       Peptide desorbed      Desorption ratio
    DA20 I-C                   303.5mg                    184.5mg               60.8%
    DA201-H                    493.4mg                    40.9mg                 8.3%
    ADS-5                      450.5mg                    41.9mg                 9.3%
    ADS-8                      466.1mg                    40.1mg                 8.6%
                                                104

[1 89]    Desorbing the Peptide with 90%Ethanol/Water: After 2CV of water washes, the
peptide absorbed in each column was then eluted by 1-2CV of 90% ethanol in water at 2 CV/h.
The elution was collected and analyzed by RP-HPLC to determine the peptide quantity desorbed
by 90% ethanol using the same method above. The desorbed peptide ratios of each resin were
listed in Table XII below.
                                            Table XII
                     Peptide absorbed in                                       Desorption
     Resins          resin after 2CV water    Peptide desorbed                 ratio
                     washes
     DA201-C                 119.0mg          47.6mg (by 2CV ethanol)                40%
     DA201-H                 452.5mg          452.5mg (by 1,5CV ethanol)             100%
     ADS-5                   408.6mg          408.6mg (by 1.5 CV ethanol)            100%
     ADS-8                   426.0mg          426.0mg (by 1.5 CV ethanol)            100%
[190]     Isolation of the Peptidefrom the Ethanol Solution: The collected
peptide/ethanol/water solution from each column was concentrated under reduced pressure,
precipitated with MTBE, filtered and dried in vacuo to give the final product. The overall yield
of the peptide processed by each column was demonstrated in Table XIII below.
                                           Table XIII
                                                   Final product obtained      Overall
    Resins          Peptide in loading sample
                                                                               yield
    DA201-C                     500mg                        52mg                  10.4%
    DA20 1-H                    500mg                       460mg                  92.0%
    ADS-5                       500mg                       400mg                  80.0%
    ADS-8                       500mg                       430mg                  86.0%
                                               105

[1 91]    Resin Screening Conclusion: From the data above (Table X to Table XIII), the
DA201-H resin presented the best absorbent capacity and the best desorption (by ethanol)
performance for plecanatide among the resins in the experiment.
[192]     Desalination and Isolation Process Optimization
[193]     Eluting Solvents Selection: Isopropanol and ethanol are two commonly used solvents
for eluting the peptide from the polymeric absorbents. Table XIV shows the amount of
plecanatide that is able to be dissolved in aqueous ethanol or isopropanol solution depending on
the v/v % isopropanol (or ethanol): water.
                                              Table XIV
                          Solvent                       Solubility
                          90%IPA/Water                  67.5 rng/mL
                          75%IPA/Water                  596.1 mg/mL
                          50%IPA/Water                  635.0 mg/mL
                          90%EtOH/Water                 302.0 mg/mL
                          75%EtOH/Water                 700.0 mg/mL
[194]     The water in the peptide/alcohol solution can be removed by azeotropic distillation.
Table XV shows the property of the binary azeotropes of ethanol/water and isopropanol/water.
                                              Table XV
    Component       Component         Boiling      Boiling        Azeotrope         Azeotrope
          A               B           Point A      Point B       Boiling Point       Wt.% A
       Water          Ethanol          100 'C      78.3 C           78.2 0C            4%
       Water        Isopropanol        100 0C      82.3 0 C         80.3 'C          12.6 %
                                                 106

[195]     Degradation of plecanatide will occur during the long time storage of the
peptide/alcohol/water solution and the concentration process. Table XVI demonstrates the
stability data of plecanatide in 75% IPA/water solution and 90% EtOH/water at 23'C.
                                              Table XVI
         Duration                Purity (in 90% EtOH aq.)*       Purity (in 75% IPA aq.)*
               0 hours                      98.5%                            98.7%
               2 hours                      98.4%                            98.7%
               4 hours                       N/A                             98.3%
               6 hours                      98.1%                            97.5%
               8 hours                       N/A                             96.6%
               10 hours                     95.5%                             N/A
               24hours                      92.0%                             N/A
              25 hours                       N/A                             96.1%
* HPLC Method: HPLC machine: Shimadzu LC-I0AD vp: column: Kromasil, C18, 4.6x250mm;
mobile phase A: 0.1%TFA in water; mobile phase B: 0.1%TFA in ACN; detect at: 215nm;
column temperature: 40'C; flow rate: I.OmL/min; gradient: 25%B to 45% B in 30 min.
[196]     From the testing data obtained, plecanatide was fairly stable at 23 C in alcohol/water
solution within 6 hours.
[197]     Elution experiments were conducted using isopropanol/water mixtures with different
v/v %. The desorption ratio and water content of the peptide eluates were listed in Table XVII
below.
                                             Table XVII
            v/v % IPA/Water              75% IPA/water       95% IPA/water         100% IPA/water
      Water content in peptide                 65.9%               53.0%               49.8%
      Desorption ratio                         100%                 100%                90%
                                                  107

 [198]     75% Isopropanol/water as eluting solution: 500mg of plecanatide (98.1% pure) was
 dissolved in a mixture of 16 mL ACN and 49 mL of 0.2% AcOH aqueous (the pH of the
 0.2%AcOH solution was adjusted to 4.0 by addition of 10% NH 40H aq). After filtration by 1.2
  tm nylon membrane, the peptide solution was loaded onto a column packed with DA201-H resin
 (ID=4cm, H=1Ocm, packed and pre-treated by the procedure mentioned previously) at 2CV/h.
 After loading, the column was washed with 2 CV deionized water at 2CV/h. Then, the peptide
 was eluted by 1.5CV of 75% IPA/water at 2CV/h. The elation was monitored by RP-HPLC.
 The eluate was collected (124mL, 98.3% pure). Karl Fisher analysis indicated water (65.9%
 wt. %). Into a 1-neck, 500-mL round bottom flask was placed 124mL of peptide/IPA/water
 eluate collected above (97.6% pure, slight degradation occurred during storage at 2-8 0 C for 2
 days). The flask was then placed under reduced pressure (60 Pa) on a rotary evaporator and
 partially immersed in a 23 C water bath. A whitish suspension was formed by feed-stripping
 approximately 622mL of isopropanol in 2 hours to about 1/3 of the initial volume of the solution
 (97.7% pure). Karl Fisher analysis indicated water (0.17% wt. %). To the concentrate was
added 350 mL of pre-chilled diethyl ether, the solid was collected by centrifugation at 3500 rpm
for 3 minutes and dried under vacuum to yield 333 mg of final product (yield 66.6%, 97.2%
 HPLC purity).
 [199]    95% Isopropanol/water as eluting solution I: 500mg of plecanatide (98.1% pure) was
dissolved in a mixture of 16 mL ACN and 49 mL of 0.2% AcOH aqueous (the pH of the
0.2%AcOH solution was adjusted to 4.0 by addition of 10% NH 40H aq). After filtration by 1.2
pLm nylon membrane, the peptide solution was loaded onto a column packed with DA20 1-H resin
(ID=4cm, H=lOcm, pre-treated by the procedure mentioned previously) at 2CV/h. After loading,
the column was washed with 2 CV deionized water at 2CV/h. Then, the peptide was eluted by
 1.5CV of 95% IPA/water at 2CV/h. The elution was monitored by RP-HPLC. The eluate was
collected (1l7mL, 98.1% pure). Karl Fisher analysis indicated water (52% wt. %). Into a 1
neck, 500-mL round bottom flask was placed 11 7mL of peptide/IPA/water eluate collected
above. The flask was then placed under reduced pressure (50 Pa) on a rotary evaporator and
partially immersed in a 23 C water bath. A whitish solid was formed by feed-stripping
approximately 470mL of isopropanol in 130min (97.9% pure). To the solid above was added 50
mL of pre-chilled diethyl ether to form a suspension and evaporated under reduced pressure
                                                108

(50Pa) on a rotary evaporator at 23 C to dryness. Yield was 430mg of final product (86%).
HPLC purity was 97.9%.
[200]    95% Isopropanol/water as eluting solution II: 500 mg of plecanatide (98.1% pure)
was dissolved in a mixture of 16 mL ACN and 49 mL of 0.2% AcOH aqueous (the pH of the
0.2%AcOH solution was adjusted to 4.0 by addition of 10% NH 40H aq). After filtration by 1.2
lm nylon membrane, the peptide solution was loaded onto a column packed with DA201-H resin
(ID=4cm, H=Ocm, packed and pre-treated by the procedure mentioned previously) at 2CV/h.
After loading, the column was washed with 2 CV deionized water at 2CV/h. Then, the peptide
was eluted by 1.5CV of 95% IPA/water at 2CV/h. The elation was monitored by RP-HPLC.
The eluate was collected (11 8mL, 98.2% pure). Karl Fisher analysis indicated water (53%
wt. %). Into a I-neck, 500-mL round bottom flask was placed I 18mL of peptide/IPA/water
eluate collected above. The flask was then placed under reduced pressure (50 Pa) on a rotary
evaporator and partially immersed in a 23 C water bath. A whitish suspension (-40mL) was
formed by feed-stripping approximately 330mL of isopropanol in I00min (97.7% pure). To the
suspension above was added 400 mL of pre-chilled diethyl ether to form a suspension. After
standing at ambient temperature for Ihour, the solid was collected by centrifugation at 3500 rpm
for 3 minutes, and dried under vacuum to yield 370 mg of final product. Yield was 74%. HPLC
purity was 97.9%.
[201]    95% Isopropanol/water as eluting solution III: I Og of plecanatide was desalted and
precipitated in a manner similar to that described above. Interestingly, the precipitation yield
was improved to 93%, which is a significant increase in yield. HPLC purity after precipitation
was 98.47%.
Example 6: Characterization of lyophilized SP-304 and precipitated SP-304
[202]    The plecanatide purified by lyophilization as described in Example 4 and plecanatide
purified by precipitation as described in Example 5 were analyzed to determine significant
chemical impurity values such as the levels of acetamide, TFA, ammonium ion, and acetonitrile.
The results are listed in the table below.
                                                 109

                      Acetamide             TFA              Ammonium ion         Acetonitrile
Lyophilized           356 ppm               0.14%            1.58%                40 ppm
plecanatide
Precipitated          < 28 ppm (LOQ         0.09%            0.23%                Not Detected
plecanatide           of method)                                                  (20 ppm LOQ)
[203]    As demonstrated by results above, the precipitation process provided significantly
reduced levels of undesirable process impurities.
[204]    The plecanatide purified by lyophilization as described in Example 4 and plecanatide
purified by precipitation as described in Example 5 were measured to obtain their bulk densities,
tap densities, particle size distribution, and shape.
[205]    EQUIPMENT: (1) Tap Density Tester Model TD-1020; (2) Sonic Sifter Separator
Model L3P; (3) Optical Microscope LINITRON 2850.
[206]    METHODS:
 1)     Bulk and Tap Density Measurements: Modified USP I Method
        a.      100.0 mL graduate cylinder was used for lyophilized plecanatide
        b.      10.0 mL graduated cylinder was used for precipitated plecanatide
2)      Particle Size Distribution Analysis
        a.      Screens used: 200, 140, 100, 60, 40 and 30 meshes.
        b.      Sample size: 2g of lyophilized plecanatide and 6.4g of precipitated plecanatide
3)      Optical Microscopic Analysis: Particle Size and Shape
        a.      Dry powder was manually dispersed onto a microscopic plate
        b.      Magnification: 100 x
        c.      Under normal light condition (no polarized filters)
                                                   110

[207]     RESULTS:
[208]     (1) Physical Appearance: lyophilized plecanatide is a light, fluffy and white powder.
Precipitated plecanatide is a slightly off-white powder.
[209]     (2) Bulk and Tap Density: Table XVIII provides bulk and tap density data for
Plecanatide samples of both lyophilized and precipitated:
                                            Table XVIII
             Plecanatide Sample           Bulk Density, g/mL       Tap Density, g/mL
             Lyophilized, Lot 101221             0.0332                   0.0680
             Precipitated, Lot 120210             0.486        T           0.641
[210]     As seen from the data, the precipitated plecanatide is unexpectedly significantly denser
than the lyophilized plecanatide. The precipitated plecanatide has less tendency of dust
generation during processing, which affords the advantages of increased safety and reduced
processing losses.
[211]     (3) Particle Size Distribution: Table XIX summarizes the particle size distribution
analysis. Figure I presents the data graphically.
                                             Table XIX
    # Mesh         Particle        Weight Retained (g)               Percent Retained
      Size        Size (sm)     Lyophilized    Precipitated    Lyophilized       Precipitated
       30             600          0.07             0.45           3.6%              7.1%
       40             425          0.26             0.17          13.3%              2.7%
       60             250          0.17             0.67           8.7%             10.5%
       100            150          0.51             2.08          26.0%             32.7%
       140            106          0.65             1.22          33.2%             19.2%
                                                  11

      200             75           0.24           0.68           12.2%             10.7%
      Pan           < 75           0.06           1.09            3.1%             17.1%
                    Total          1.96           6.36          100.0%            100.0%
[212]    As demonstrated by Table XIX and Fig. 1, the particle size distributions are different for
both types of plecanatide. During analysis, it was observed that the precipitated plecanatide
contained some larger particles, which could be broken up easily. It was also noticed that the
lyophilized plecanatide appeared to be flaky and sticking onto top and bottom of sieves, whereas
no sticking was observed for the precipitated plecanatide. It indicates a better processing
property of the precipitated plecanatide.
[213]    (4) Particle Size and Shape: Figures 2 and 3 provide optical microscopic analysis of
samples of lyophilized and precipitated plecanatide, respectively. As seen in Figure 2, the
lyophilized plecanatide is in amorphous form and has irregular shapes of particles. They form
physical aggregates with particles lying on top of each other. In Figure 3, the precipitated
plecanatide shows distinguishable individual particles. From the particle appearances and
shapes, the precipitated plecanatide will have better flow property and therefore can facilitate
solid processing during manufacturing.
[214]    The lyophilized and precipitated forms of plecanatide have shown distinguishable
physical appearances and properties by density, particle size distribution and shape analyses.
The precipitated form is more suitable for solid dosage form processing during manufacturing in
terms of reducing dust generation, less sticking onto processing equipment, and potentially less
processing losses.
[215]    The precipitated form is more suitable for processing solid dosage form during
manufacture (e.g., a low-dose solid dosage form). The higher density of the precipitated material
will reduce aerosol or "dust" losses during weighing, transferring, and blending. The different
particle shape has been shown to reduce loss caused by sticking to screens or sieves. The higher
density should improve content uniformity since the size and density of the drug particles more
closely match those of the excipients.
                                                112

Example 7: Low-dose formulation of precipitated SP-304
 [216]    The plecanatide purified by precipitation as described in Example 5 is processed further
to make low-dose formulations as described below.
                                composition of dry-blending batch
                   Item No.            Ingredient              Concentration %
                                                               w/w
                   I                   SP-304                  0.3246
                   2                   Microcrystalline        99.43
                                       cellulose (Avicel PH
                                       102)
                   3                   Magnesium stearate      0.2500
                   4                   HPMC capsule shells     n/a
                                       Total                    100
Blending:
[217]   Avicel PH 102 is screened through a 60 mesh screen. V-blenders (1 Qt, 4Qt, and 16 Qt)
are then dusted by the screened Avicel PH 102. SP-304 is screened through a 200 mesh screen
and loaded into the 1-Qt V-blender. Then, about 80 g Avicel PH 102 is added into the 1-Qt
blender and the mixture is blended for 10 minutes at 25 rpm. The mixture is then transferred to
the 4-Qt V-blender which is pre-dusted by the screened Avicel PH 102. The 1-Qt blender is
rinsed with Avicel and the rinse material is transferred to the 4-Qt blender. The rinsing is
repeated until all SP-304 is transferred to the 4-Qt blender. About 200g Avicel is added to the 4
Qt V-blender and the mixture is blended for 10 minutes. The resulting blend is then screened
through a 60 mesh screen and then transferred into the pre-dusted 16-Qt blender (dusted with
1500g Avicel). The 4-Qt blender is rinsed with Avicel and the rinse material is transferred to the
16-Qt blender. The remaining Avicel is added to the 16-Qt blender and the mixture is blended
for 10 minutes. The resulting blend is passed through Comil, rinsed with excess of Avicel, and
then returned to the 16-Qt blender and is further blended for 5 minutes. Proper amount of
magnesium stearate is weighed, screened through a 60 mesh screen, and added into the 16-Qt
                                                  113

blender. The resulting mixture is blended for 2 minutes. The resulting mixture is then either
packaged in capsules or compressed to form tablets.
Encapsulation
[218]   A MG2 Planeta capsule filler is set up. Average weight of the empty capsule shells is
determined and target capsule fill weight was calculated (5%). The blend from the above
process is added into the hopper of the capsule filler and encapsulation is started. Run weight
parameters are manually adjusted. Resulting capsules are then sorted according to the target fill
weight.
Compression
[219]   A Fette tablet press is set up. Then the blend mixture is loaded into the powder hopper
and tooling is installed. The weight of each tablet is set to be 100 mg5% and hardness to be 4-6
Kp. The weight, hardness, and thickness of tablets are measured and recorded every 5 to 10
minutes. Friability measurement is also performed to ensure satisfactory product.
                                                 114

CLAIMS
1.       A purified peptide comprising a GCC agonist sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the
peptide has a bulk density of no less than 0.1 g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3
g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL or no less than 0.5 g/mL.
2.       The purified peptide of claim 1, wherein the peptide has a tap density of no less than 0.1
g/mL, no less than 0.2 g/mL, no less than 0.3 g/mL, no less than 0.4 g/mL, no less than 0.5
g/mL or no less than 0.6 g/mL.
3.       The purified peptide of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the peptide has a chromatographic
purity of no less than 95%, no less than 97% or no less than 98%.
4.       The purified peptide of claim 3, wherein the peptide has an average total impurity
content of less than 3%.
5.       The purified peptide of claim 4, wherein peptide is substantially free of impurities
selected from acetonitrile, acetamide, alcohols, ammonium and TFA.
6.       The purified peptide of any one of claims I to 5, wherein peptide is substantially free of
water.
7.       The purified peptide of claim 6, wherein the peptide has an average water content of less
than 10% (w/w).
8.       The purified peptide of any one of claims I to 7, wherein the peptide is substantially
free of topoisomers.
9.       The purified peptide of any one of claims I to 8, wherein an approximate yield of the
peptide is greater than 15% (w/w).
Date: 7 June 2018
                                                115

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>                  !! "#          $% &'(     )%'*+%,    * +%!          ( '&!,
              -         .-./0           1"
                            2       2       .   .
<removed-apn>
                             / -/
              0              2 .        3
              0             / -/
              .         %, ', ' 4       !& ' - 0
               -        ,&#& &%+            5) '
               -        6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
              !'   !$   +)    *!     +)         )   *! :%+   !' :%+    +%   *!   6    +*   *!   )
                                    0                                                      0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+            5) '
               -        6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
              !$   +)   *!    +)        )   *! :%+     !' :%+    +%    *!   6    +*   *!    )
                                    0                                                      0
                    -
               -        ,&#& &%+            5) '
                                                                  %(

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*        *',6 !&8 9
                    -
              !$   +)   *!      +)       )   *! :%+    !' :%+     +%       *!   6    +*   *!
                                     0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+             5) '
               -        6 7& %++*        *',6 !&8 9
              +)   *!   +)      )     *! :%+        !' :%+   +%   *!       6    +*   *!   )
                                     0
                    0
                     -
               -        ,&#& &%+             5) '
               -        6 7& %++*        *',6 !&8 9
                    0
              +)   *!   +)      )     *! :%+        !' :%+   +%   *!       6    +*   *!
                                     0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+             5) '
               -        6 7& %++*        *',6 !&8 9
              *!   +)       )   *! :%+       !' :%+    +%    *!   6        +*   *!   )
                                   0
                    .
                                                                      %(

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                    .
              *!   +)    )   *! :%+      !' :%+    +%    *!     6        +*   *!
<removed-apn>
                                0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                        0
                    3
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    3
                                                                    %(    -

<removed-date>
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    <-=      <-=
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
<removed-apn>
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                                                                %(    0

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
<removed-apn>
                        -
              !'   !$   +)    *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
              !'   !$   +)    *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    <       = <    =
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                        0
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                                                                %(    .

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                        .
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
<removed-apn>
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                        3
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                                                                %(    3

<removed-date>
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
<removed-apn>
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                    <-=      <-=
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    <-=      <-=
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
<removed-apn>
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                        -
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    <-=      <-=
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                        0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                        0
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                                                                %(    -

<removed-date>
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6 &' @ &! -/< /'%$6,6*+=%+%'&'
                       ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6 &' @ &! % ?/%7&'             % &9
                        .
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *! A%%
                                   0                                                    0
                                                                %(

<removed-date>    -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                     "?
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &' ,6     @ &! %    /%7&' &! B),* &          % &9       &B
                     "?
                    < = < =
               -    >6  &' ,6          @ &! %    /%7&' &! B),* &          % &9       &B
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! A%%   !' A%%      +%   *!     6    +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                       0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                                                                %(    0

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    <.=      <.=
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& ' . &! %,,% 6 9 ,             %   % ,%7 B &9(
                        ;
                    < 0= < 0=
               -    >6  &' @ %, $ !&,& '            0 &!        '&,6&'
<removed-apn>
                     "?
                    < 0= < 0=
               -    >6  &' @ &! %'              '&,6&'    " '
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                        3
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     !$ :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6    +* A%%    )
                                   0                                                    0
                    -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    -
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)   *      *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6    +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                     0
                    -
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
<removed-apn>
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    -
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)          *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                    -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                                                                %(    .

<removed-date>
                    -
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)   *      *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                    --
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    --
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)   *      *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                    -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                             ;
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    -
<removed-apn>
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)   *      *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                    -0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                    -0
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)          *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                    -
                                                                %(    3

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
<removed-apn>
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    -
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)          *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
                    -.
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                    -.
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)          *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                 0
                    -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                    -
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                 0
                    -3
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                    -3
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
<removed-apn>
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   !$   +)    *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
<removed-apn>
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '       &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                        -
              !'   !$   +)    *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                             ;
                    <       = <    =
                                                                %(    -

<removed-date>
               -    >6       &'     &! % ?/%7&'         % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                     %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                  % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                     %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                  % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < -= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                     %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                  % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                     %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                  % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        0
              !'   !$   +)   *! A%% A%%        *! A%% A%% A%% A%%        *! A%% A%%    *! A%%
                                0                                                      0
                                                               %(

<removed-date>
              -    ,&#& &%+   5) '
              -   6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'   % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9      %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                   /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  <-= <-=
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                   /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  <0= < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < -= < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                %(   0

<removed-date>
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
              A%% A%% A%%   *! A%% A%%    *! A%% A%% A%% A%%   *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                               0                                            0
                     .
                -     ,&#& &%+     5) '
                -    6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'         % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9            %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    <-= <-=
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                            ;
                    < =     < =
                -   >6      &' @ &! % *!, &'    $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7      %$, $ +&'
                                                      %(

<removed-date>
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
<removed-apn>
                    <.=   <.=
                -   >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'   6 7     *!, &'
                    -/7    %$, $ +&'
                        ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'          $ '& &++%7&'   6 7     *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                        ;
                    < 0= < 0=
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'          $ '& &++%7&'   6 7     *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                     .
              A%% A%% A%% A%%    +) A%% A%% :%+   !' :%+    +% A%%   6    +* A%% A%%
                                0                                             0
                -     ,&#& &%+     5) '
                -    6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                    < =   < =
                -   >6    &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+        )''%,) %+ %7&'      % &9     %7&'   % &9
                                                       %(    .

<removed-date>
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&'     % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9   %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                   /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
<removed-apn>
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  <-= <-=
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                   /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                  < =   < =
              -   >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'   $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                  -/7    %$, $ +&'
                       ;
                  <0= < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'   % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9      %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                  <.=   <.=
              -   >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'   $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                  -/7    %$, $ +&'
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'   % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9      %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                      ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'     $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                  -/7  %$, $ +&'
                                                %(

<removed-date>
                         ;
                    < -= < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'    % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9       %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                    < 0= < 0=
<removed-apn>
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () ,6%, &! 8        '    !&9) &' + '(,6 %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9   %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%
                              0                                        0
                     3
                -       ,&#& &%+   5) '
                -    6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    <0= < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'    % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9       %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'    % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9       %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
                    <    = <   =
                                                     %(   3

<removed-date>
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < -= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
<removed-apn>
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        3
              !'   !$   !$   *! A%% A%%    *! A%%   !' A%% A%%      *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                0                                                0
                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+    5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'     &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                           %(   -

<removed-date>
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
<removed-apn>
                    < -= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                    0
              !'   +)   +)   *! A%% A%%    *! A%%   !' A%% A%%      *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                0                                                0
                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+    5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'     &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'     &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                           %(   -

<removed-date>
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < -= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                    0
              !'   +)   !$   *! A%% A%%    *! A%%   !' A%% A%%      *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                0                                                0
                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+    5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'     &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
                                                           %(   -

<removed-date>
               -    >6       &'     &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < -= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                    0
              !'   !$   +)   *! A%% A%%    *! A%%   !' A%% A%%       *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                0                                                 0
                    0-
               -        ,&#& &%+    5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                           %(   --

<removed-date>
                        ;
                  < =   < =
              -   >6    &'    &! % ?/%7&'   % &9
                        ;
                  < =   < =
              -   >6    &'    &! % ?/%7&'   % &9
<removed-apn>
                        ;
                  <-=   <-=
              -   >6    &'    &! % ?/%7&'   % &9
                       ;
                  <0= < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < -= < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                  0-
                                                   %(   -

<removed-date>
              !'   !$   +)   *! A%% A%%       *! A%%   *   A%% A%%      *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                0                                                    0
                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                             ;
                    <-=      <-=
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'     % &9
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&'                 % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&'                 % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&'                 % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                    < -= <         =
                                                              %(   -0

<removed-date>
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&'                % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9 %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&'                % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9 %
<removed-apn>
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                    0
              !'   +)   +)   *! A%% A%%       *! A%%   *    A%% A%%   *! A%% A%%    *! A%%
                                0                                                   0
                    00
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                    00
              *!   *!   +)   *    *!   *!     !'       +%   *!    6   +*   *!   *
                                 0
                    0
                     -
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                    0
              *!   *!   +)   *    *!   *!     !'       +%   *!    6   +*   *!
                                 0
                    0.
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                             %(   -

<removed-date>
                                ;
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
                          ;
<removed-apn>
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
                       0.
              *!   *!      +)   *      *!   *!     !'        +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0
                       0
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                       0
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                    0
                       03
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                       03
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                    0
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
                                                                  %(   -.

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
<removed-apn>
              *!   *!   +)   *      *!   *!     !'        +%     *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                   0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,         $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
              *!   *!   +)   *      *!   *!     !'        +%     *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                   0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                      0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                                                                 %(   -

<removed-date>
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
<removed-apn>
                       -
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
                       0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                             ;
                                                                 %(   -3

<removed-date>
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                       0
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
                       .
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                       .
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
                                                                 %(

<removed-date>
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*          *',6 !&8 9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
<removed-apn>
               -       >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                     0
                       3
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*          *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                       3
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                     0
                       .
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*          *',6 !&8 9
                                                                    %(

<removed-date>
                                ;
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                       .
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                      0
<removed-apn>
                       .
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                       .
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                      0
                       .
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '         &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
                       .
              *!   *!      +)   *     *!    *!     !'        +%     *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                                                    %(

<removed-date>
                                   0
                    .-
                     -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '   &! %,,% 6 9 ,          $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                        ;
                    < -= < -=
               -    >6  &'             %, $ !&,& '   - &! %,,% 6 9 ,        $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                    .-
              *!   *!   +)   *      *!   *!     !'   +%   *!   6       +*   *!
                                   0
                    .
                     -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '   &! %,,% 6 9 ,          $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                    .
              *!   *!   +)   *      *!   *!     !'   +%   *!   6       +*   *!
                                   0
                    .0
                     -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                                                          %(       -

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                           ;
                       < -= < -=
               -       >6  &'             %, $ !&,& '        - &! %,,% 6 9 ,     $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
<removed-apn>
                       .0
              *!   *!      +)   *      *!   *!     !'        +%   *!   6    +*   *!
                                      0
                       .
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '         &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*   +
                       .
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                    0
                       ..
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*         *',6 !&8 9
                                ;
                                                                  %(

<removed-date>
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       ..
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                   0
<removed-apn>
                       .
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*          *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       .
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)          *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                   0
                       .3
               -           ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*          *',6 !&8 9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                          ;
                       < = <          =
               -       >6 &'              %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       .3
              !'   6       *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                   0
                                                                  %(    0

<removed-date>    -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                   0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                   0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                                                               %(

<removed-date>
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
<removed-apn>
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   *      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                   0
                       -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
                       -
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   *      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                   0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           %, $ !&,& '        &! %,,% 6 9 ,       $ +* ,6*+ '   (+*   +
              !'   6    *!   *!    +)    *      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                                               %(    .

<removed-date>
                                 0                                             0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              *!   *!   +)        *!   *!     !'   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
               -        6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
              *!   *!   +)   6    *!   *!     !'   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                 0
                        .
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
               -        6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              *!   *!   +)        *!   *!     !'   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
               -        6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                                                        %(

<removed-date>
              *!    *!   +)   6    *!   *!     !'    +%   *!   6       +*   *!
                                  0
                         3
<removed-apn>
                -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                              ;
                     < =      < =
                -    >6       &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                              ;
                     <0=      < =
                -    >6       &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                        ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6 &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                         ;
                     < -= < -=
                -    >6  &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                         3
              A%% A%%    +)   *   A%% A%%      !'    +% A%%    6       +* A%%    *
                                  0
                     3
                      -
                -        ,&#& &%+       5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                          %(       3

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
                -   >6       &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                             ;
                    <0=      < =
                -   >6       &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
<removed-apn>
                       ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6 &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                        ;
                    < -= < -=
                -   >6  &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                    3
              A%% A%%   +)   *   A%% A%%   !'       +% A%%   6   +* A%%
                                 0
                    3
                -       ,&#& &%+    5) '
                -       6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'            % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9               %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'            % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9               %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                    < 0= < .=
                -   >6  &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+           )''%,) %+ %7&'      % &9   %7&'   % &9
                                                        %(   0

<removed-date>
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&'           % &9      %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9   %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
                     < 3= < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
                          ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                     3
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%      !'   *   *!   *! A%%   *   *!   *! A%% A%%
                              0                                                0
              A%%   *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                     3
                -        ,&#& &%+   5) '
                -     6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                           ;
                                                         %(   0

<removed-date>
                     < 0= < .=
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
                     < 3= < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
<removed-apn>
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                     3
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%      !'   6   *!   *! A%%   6   *!   *! A%% A%%
                              0                                                0
              A%%   *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                     3-
                -        ,&#& &%+   5) '
                -     6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                     <0= <0=
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                          ;
                     <3= < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'           % &9
                     %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9              %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                         %(   0

<removed-date>
                            ;
                       < -= < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                            ;
<removed-apn>
                       < = < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       3-
              !'   6       *!   *! A%%   6      *!   *! A%% A%% A%%    *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                   0                                                0
                       3
               -           ,&#& &%+      5) '
               -       6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                                ;
                       <-=      <-=
               -       >6       &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                            ;
                       <0= <0=
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
               -       >6       &' @ &! $ '& &++%7&'
                            ;
                       <3= < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'              % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                 %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                             %(   0-

<removed-date>
                            ;
                       < -= < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'          % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9             %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
                            ;
                       < = < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'          % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9             %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       3
              !'   6   A%%    *! A%%   6      *! A%% A%% A%% A%%   *! A%% A%%   *! A%%
                                 0                                              0
                       30
               -           ,&#& &%+    5) '
               -       6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       <-=   < =
               -       >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'       $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                       -/7    %$, $ +&'
                            ;
                       <0= < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'          % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9             %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                       <.=   < =
               -       >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'       $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                       -/7    %$, $ +&'
                             ;
                       <3=   <   =
                                                          %(   0

<removed-date>
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'   % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9      %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                           ;
                       < = < =
               -       >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                       -/7  %$, $ +&'
<removed-apn>
                            ;
                       < -= < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'   % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9      %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                           ;
                       < 0= < 0=
               -       >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                       -/7  %$, $ +&'
                            ;
                       < = < =
               -       >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'   % &9
                       %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9      %
                       7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       30
              !'   6   A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%
                               0                                        0
                       3
               -           ,&#& &%+   5) '
               -       6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'      $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                       -/7    %$, $ +&'
                                                        %(   00

<removed-date>
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'          % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9             %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                           ;
                    <0=    < =
<removed-apn>
                -   >6     &' @ &! % *!, &'      $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7     %$, $ +&'
                        ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'         $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                        ;
                    < -= < -=
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'         $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                    3
              A%% A%%   +) A%% A%% A%%     !'    +% A%%    6    +* A%%   *
                               0
                    3.
                     -
                -       ,&#& &%+    5) '
                -       6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                           ;
                    < =    < =
                -   >6     &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'       6 7    *!, &'
                    -/7     %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'          % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9             %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                      %(   0

<removed-date>
                           ;
                    <0=    < =
                -   >6     &' @ &! % *!, &'       $ '& &++%7&'     6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7     %$, $ +&'
                        ;
                    < = < =
<removed-apn>
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'          $ '& &++%7&'     6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                        ;
                    < -= < -=
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'          $ '& &++%7&'     6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                    3.
              A%% A%%   +) A%% A%% A%%     !'    +% A%%   6    +* A%%
                               0
                    3
                -       ,&#& &%+    5) '
                -       6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9          %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8         '    !&9) &' + '(,6        %'9 7%* B
                    %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9         %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9          %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8         '    !&9) &' + '(,6        %'9 7%* B
                    %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9         %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                           ;
                    <-=    <-=
                                                     %(   0.

<removed-date>
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9         %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8         '    !&9) &' + '(,6       %'9 7%* B
                  %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9        %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9         %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
                  %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8         '    !&9) &' + '(,6       %'9 7%* B
                  %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9        %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  <0= <0=
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9         %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8         '    !&9) &' + '(,6       %'9 7%* B
                  %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9        %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                       ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+    )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9         %7&' % &9
                  %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8         '    !&9) &' + '(,6       %'9 7%* B
                  %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&' % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9        %'
                  )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                  <.=   < =
              -   >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'    $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                  -/7    %$, $ +&'
                       ;
                  <3= < =
              -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'       % &9
                  %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9          %
                  7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                      ;
                  < = < =
              -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'      $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                  -/7  %$, $ +&'
                      ;
                  < -= < 0=
              -   >6  &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+      )''%,) %+ %7&'    % &9     %7&'   % &9
                                                 %(   0

<removed-date>
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9       % ?/%7&'        % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9   %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
<removed-apn>
                         ;
                    < .= < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'        % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9           %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                        ;
                    < 3= < 3=
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'        $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+       )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9         %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8           '    !&9) &' + '(,6       %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&'    % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9        %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                    3
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%
                              0                                        0
              A%% A%% A%% A%%
                    33
                -       ,&#& &%+   5) '
                -    6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                    < =   < =
                                                     %(   03

<removed-date>
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
<removed-apn>
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &!       'C)(%, 9 ,   %'      ?
                    33
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)      )   *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)      )   *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
<removed-apn>
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &!       'C)(%, 9 ,   %'      ?
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)      )   *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'       % &9
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)      )   *! :%+   !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                    0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                                                                %(

<removed-date>
                -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                              ;
                     < =      < =
                -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
<removed-apn>
                        ;
                     < = <          =
                -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                        ;
                     < = <          =
                -    >6 &'              &!       'C)(%, 9 ,   %'       ?
                         -
              !'    !$   +)   *!     +)      )   *! :%+    !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                    0                                                     0
                -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                              ;
                     < =      < =
                -    >6       &' @ &!     *      (+),%7&   % &9
                        ;
                     < = <          =
                -    >6 &'              &!       'C)(%, 9 ,   %'       ?
                        ;
                     < = <          =
                -    >6 &'              &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
              A%%   !$   +)   *!     +)      )   *! :%+    !' :%+      +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                    0                                                     0
                                                                  %(

<removed-date>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! %,,% 6 9 ,     $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*     +
                       ;
                    < = <          =
               -    >6 &'              &! %,,% 6 9 ,     $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*     +
                        0
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &'        &! %,,% 6 9 ,     $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*     +
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                   0                                                 0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                                                             %(    -

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                       ;
                    < = <         =
               -    >6 &'             &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '    (+*     +
<removed-apn>
                        .
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+    +%   *!   6    +*   *!    )
                                  0                                                   0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    < = <-=
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9    %7&'                      % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9                         %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &' @ &! % *!, &'           $ '& &++%7&'   6 7      *!, &'
                    -/7       %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                       %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                    <.=      <.=
               -    >6       &' @ &! % *!, &'           $ '& &++%7&'   6 7      *!, &'
                    -/7       %$, $ +&'
                             ;
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
                     < = < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                       %7&'   % &9
                     %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'                $ '& &++%7&'   6 7      *!, &'
<removed-apn>
                     -/7  %$, $ +&'
                          ;
                     < -= < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                       %7&'   % &9
                     %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                     < 0= < 0=
                -    >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'                $ '& &++%7&'   6 7      *!, &'
                     -/7  %$, $ +&'
                          ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                       %7&'   % &9
                     %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%
                              0                                        0
                         3
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         3
              !'    !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+    +%   *!   6    +*   *!    )
                                   0                                                   0
                                                              %(    0

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
              +)   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +)   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +)   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +)   +)   +)   *!   +)     )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                                            %(

<removed-date>
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              !$   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              !$   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              !$   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                                                            %(    .

<removed-date>
                        .
              !$   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                                                            %(

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
<removed-apn>     -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              *!   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              *!   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              *!   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
                                                            %(    3

<removed-date>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                        0
              *!   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +)   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              +)   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                            %(   .

<removed-date>
              +)   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              +)   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              !$   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              !$   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                            %(   .

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              !$   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
<removed-apn>
                        --
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        --
              !$   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -0
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
                                                            %(   .

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
<removed-apn>
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -.
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -.
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              *!   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                 0
                        -3
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -3
              *!   !$   +)   *!   +)     )     *! :%+   !' :%+   +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                                            %(   .-

<removed-date>
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              *!   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              *!   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *! :%+   !' :%+    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              +)   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                                                             %(   .

<removed-date>
                        -
              +)   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +)   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              +)   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !$   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        .
                                                             %(   .0

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              !$   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
<removed-apn>     -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !$   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              !$   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                                                             %(   .

<removed-date>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                        0
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0-
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0-
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
                                                             %(   ..

<removed-date>
              *!   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        00
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        00
              *!   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              *!   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0.
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0.
              *!   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!   )
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                             %(   .

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              +)   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
<removed-apn>
                        03
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        03
              +)   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +)   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +)   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                                                             %(   .3

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
              !$   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              !$   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !$   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              !$   +)   +)   *!   +)     )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
                        3
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        .
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              *!   !$   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              *!   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              *!   +)   !$   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        .-
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .-
              *!   +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6    +*   *!
                                  0                                                   0
<removed-apn>
                        .
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    < = <-=
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                        %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &' @ &! % *!, &'           $ '& &++%7&'   6 7      *!, &'
                    -/7       %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                        %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                    <.=      <.=
               -    >6       &' @ &! % *!, &'           $ '& &++%7&'   6 7      *!, &'
                    -/7       %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < = < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                        %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                    % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                                                             %(    -

<removed-date>
                         ;
                     < = < =
                -    >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'                 $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                     -/7  %$, $ +&'
                          ;
<removed-apn>
                     < -= < =
                -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                      %7&'   % &9
                     %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                  % &9      %
                     7 ,6*+%, 9    %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                     < 0= < 0=
                -    >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'                 $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                     -/7  %$, $ +&'
                         .
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%
                              0                                        0
                         .0
                         0
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         .0
                    &!   6    *!    +)   +      *!   +%   6    +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
                         .
                         0
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         .
                    &!   6    *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
                                                               %(

<removed-date>
                       ..
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                       ..
                  &!   6    *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       .
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       .
                  &!   6    *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       .3
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       .3
                  &!   6    *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                             %(    0

<removed-date>
                  &!   6    *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       0
<removed-apn>
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                  &!   6    *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                  &!   6    *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                        -
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       -
                  &!   6    *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                  &!   6    *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
<removed-apn>
                        0
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       0
                  &!   6    *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                  &!   6    *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                        .
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       .
                  &!   6    *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                                                             %(    .

<removed-date>
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                  &!   6    *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                        3
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       3
                  &!   6    *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       3
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       3
                  &!   6    *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                 0                                                    0
                       3
                       0
              -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
              -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                       3
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
                   &!   6    *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        3
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        3-
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3-
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        3
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        30
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                              %(    3

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        30
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        3
<removed-apn>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        3.
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3.
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        3
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        33
                        0
                                                              %(   3

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        33
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
<removed-apn>
                                  0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                                                              %(   3

<removed-date>
                         -
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
                        -
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                         0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              !'   !$   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                  0                                                    0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                              %(   3

<removed-date>
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +) :%+      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
                         .
                        0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              !'   !$   +)   *!     +)   *      *!   +%   !'   +%   +%   *!   +%   +*   *!
                                   0                                                    0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*    *',6 !&8 9
                         ;
                    < = <-=
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                       %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                   % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9     %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                    < =      < =
               -    >6       &' @ &! % *!, &'             $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7       %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    <0= < =
               -    >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9                       %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'                   % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9     %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                             ;
                    <.=      <.=
                                                               %(   3-

<removed-date>
                -   >6    &' @ &! % *!, &'   $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7    %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9          %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'      % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9     %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
<removed-apn>
                        ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6  &' @ &! % *!, &'     $ '& &++%7&'   6 7   *!, &'
                    -/7  %$, $ +&'
                         ;
                    < -= < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9          %7&'   % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9        % ?/%7&'      % &9      %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9     %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < 0= < 0=
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+     )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9     %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ () %'9 7%* B %' /%7&' % &9         % ?/%7&' % &9    %
                    7 ,6*+%, 9     %' )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < = < =
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+      )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9        %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8          '    !&9) &' + '(,6     %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&'   % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9       %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
                         ;
                    < .= < .=
                -   >6   &' @ &! %'* '%,) %+      )''%,) %+ %7&' % &9        %7&' % &9
                    %'%+ ()   %'9 7%* B 8          '    !&9) &' + '(,6     %'9 7%* B %'
                     /%7&' % &9      % ?/%7&'   % &9     % 7 ,6*+%, 9       %'
                    )'7 ,6*+%, 9 %7&' % &9
              A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%% A%%
                              0                                        0
                                                   %(   3

<removed-date>
              A%%
                          3
                         0
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                         3
              +'    +)   +)   *!    +)    )     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                   0                                                  0
                         0
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'    +)   +)   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                   0                                                  0
                         0
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'    !$   +)   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                   0                                                  0
                         0
                -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                              %(   30

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                         -
<removed-apn>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                         0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
                                                             %(   3

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
<removed-apn>
                                  0                                                  0
                         .
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                         3
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                                                             %(   3.

<removed-date>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
<removed-apn>
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                         -
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                                                             %(   3

<removed-date>
                        -
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                        0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
                         0
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        0
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *
                                  0                                                  0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                             %(   33

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        .
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        3
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   6      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
<removed-apn>
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        --
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        --
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   +)     *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
<removed-apn>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -0
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -.
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -.
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   *      *!   +   !'   ,    +%   *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                  0
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
                                                             %(

<removed-date>
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -
              +'   +)   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%       *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                      0
                        -3
<removed-apn>
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
                        -3
              +'   !$   +)   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%       *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                      0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   !$   !$   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%       *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                      0
               -        ,&#& &%+        5) '
               -        6 7& %++*   *',6 !&8 9
              +'   +)   !$   *!    +)   +      *!   +   !'   ,    +%       *!   6   +*   *!
                                  0                                                      0
                                                             %(        -

<removed-date>
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
              !'             !'                 !'   *    *!   *!   +)   *!   *!   *!   !'
<removed-apn>
                                   0                                                    0
              +%   *!   6    +*    *!    *
                        -
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '     (+*      +
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '     (+*      +
                        -
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%   *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                    0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                                                               %(

<removed-date>
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '         (+*     +
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%       *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                       0
<removed-apn>
                        0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! %,,% 6 9 ,      $ +* ,6*+ '         (+*     +
                        0
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   6      *!   *!   !'        +%       *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                       0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   *      *!   *!   !'        +%       *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                       0
                        .
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                                                               %(        0

<removed-date>
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
<removed-apn>
                        .
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   *      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                          ;
                       < = <       =
               -       >6 &'           &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
              !'   6    *!   *!     +)   *      *!   *!   !'          +%   *!   6   +*   *!   *
                                   0                                                     0
                        3
               -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
               -       6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                             ;
                       < =   < =
               -       >6    &'        &! % ?/%7&'        % &9
                        3
                                                                 %(

<removed-date>
              !'      6    *!    *!    +)   *       *!   *!   !'         +%       *!   6    +*   *!   *
                                      0                                                          0
                           0
                          -
                  -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
<removed-apn>
                  -        6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                           0
              +       *!         +)    +%           +*   +)   !$   +%                  +)   +)    )   !'
                                      0                                                          0
              (       *    *     +%             )    (   &!   *     )    !'       ) :%+      6   (    +'
                                                              0                             -
              (       *
                           0
                           .
                  -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                  -        6 7& %++*       *',6 !&8 9
                                 ;
                          < =    < =
                  -       >6     &'     &!   'C)(%, 9 , %'      6%4&'( ,6 ( ' %+ # 7)+%
                           /      %'9 >6   &'   &! % 6*9 ( '   %'   (%'&   7$ )'9 6%4&'(
                           '     ,>   ,6     # )   #&4  !&@ ! 4 '   &(6, '&'      , '
                           % B   ' %, 7!
                              ;
                          < .= < .=
                  -       >6  &'           &!       'C)(%, 9 ,     %'    ?
                           0
              &!      +%   +)    +*    6    6       6         !$ :%+              *    )    +)   +*   +'
                                      0                                                          0
                                                                    %(        .

<removed-date>
              +%    +%   *!   +)   6       +      +%   $    ) :%+   *!
                                                           0
                      0
                     0
<removed-apn>
                -        ,&#& &%+          5) '
                -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9      &%+   $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                         0
              +'    &!   !'            (
                                   0
                         0-
                -        ,&#& &%+          5) '
                -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9      &%+   $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                         0-
              :%+   +'   &!   !'            (
                                   0
                      0
                     .
                -        ,&#& &%+          5) '
                -        6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9      &%+   $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                         0
              :%+   (    +'   &!    !'            (
                                   0
                         00
                -        ,&#& &%+          5) '
                                                               %(

<removed-date>
                -       6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9       &%+      $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                        00
              :%+   (   +*   +'    &!     !'          (
                                  0
<removed-apn>
                     0
                    3
                -       ,&#& &%+          5) '
                -       6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9       &%+      $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                        0
              :%+   (   +*         +'     &!     !'        (
                                  0
                        0.
                -       ,&#& &%+          5) '
                -       6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9       &%+      $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                        0.
              :%+   (   +*            (   +'     &!   !'         (
                                  0
                        0
                -       ,&#& &%+          5) '
                -       6 7& %++*     *',6 !&8 9       &%+      $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                        0
              :%+   (   +*            (    (     +'   &!   !'           (
                                  0
                                                                 %(         3

<removed-date>
                           03
                  -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                  -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9    &%+   $6&'/   +%, 9 $ +*$ $,&9
                           03
<removed-apn>
              (       +'   &!   !'           (
                                      0
                       0
                  -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                  -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9    'D $6%+&'     ',%$ $,&9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
                  -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'   % &9
                                ;
                       <0=      <0=
                  -    >6       &' @ &! %     /6 7 !    &'
              *       *!   +*   6     A%%
                                      0
                  -        ,&#& &%+         5) '
                  -        6 7& %++*      *',6 !&8 9 ; %D #%7&9
                                ;
                       < =      < =
                  -    >6       &'        &! % ?/%7&'   % &9
                                                               %(

<removed-date>
                        "?
                       <-=     <-=
                  -    >6      &'    &! #+)   &'%, 9 %, ,6     $6 '*+ (   )$ %,   /$ !&,& '
                               ;
                       < =     < =
<removed-apn>
                  -    >6      &'    &! %,,% 6 9 ,   %'
              *       +%   6   6
                                                          %(

