Abstract
The present invention is based upon the identification of a number of antigens derived from species of
the genus Teladorsagia, which can be used to raise immune responses in animals - particularly those
animals susceptible or predisposed to 5 infection by (or with) one or more Teladorsagia species. The
antigens may be exploited to provide compositions and vaccines for raising protective immune
responses in animals - the protective immune responses serving to reduce, prevent, treat or eliminate
Teladorsagiainfections/infestations.

                                                     1
                                     SHEEP NEMATODE VACCINE
   This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application 2013217398, the entire contents
   of which are incorporated herein by reference
 5
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates to nematode antigens capable of raising host immune
   responses. In particular, the invention provides vaccines for use in protecting against and/or
   reducing instances of Teladorsagia infections.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
              Teladorsagia circumcincta (previously known as Ostertagia circumcincta) is the major
   cause of parasitic gastroenteritis in small ruminants in temperate regions. This nematode is
   controlled primarily by anthelmintics; however resistance is widespread and field isolates have
   often been found to be insensitive to a number of different anthelmintic classes (Bartley et al.,
15 2004; Wrigley et al., 2006). T. circumcincta resides within the abomasum (or true stomach) of
   small ruminants and primarily causes disease in animals during their first year of grazing. It is a
   major cause of production losses, estimated to cost the UK sheep industry alone in excess of
   E80 M per annum (Nieuwhof & Bishop, 2005). The associated clinical signs range from
   suppressed appetite to diarrhoea, dehydration and death; however, the major impact of
20 teladorsagiosis is its effect on lamb productivity via a reduction in weight gain (Gibson and
   Everett, 1976).
              Protective immunity against challenge with T. circumcincta develops after continual
   ('trickle') infection over a number of weeks (Seaton et al., 1989). The degree of immunity that
   develops depends on a number of factors including, level of parasite challenge, age of animal
25 and its genotype (Singleton et al., 2011). In ewes that have acquired immunity to T.
   circumcincta, resistance to the parasites can lapse around the time of parturition and early
   lactation (Houdijk et al., 2005). In terms of anti-parasite effects, the protective immune
   response has been shown to decrease the establishment of larvae in the abomasal mucosa,
   slow larval development in the gastric gland and to reduce the egg output of female worms in
30 the abomasal lumen (Balic et al., 2003; Seaton et al., 1989; Smith et al., 1985, 1986; Stear et
   al., 2004). Experiments that demonstrated successful adoptive transfer between immune and
   naive sheep using gastric lymph indicate the importance of local immune responses in
   protective mechanisms against T. circumcincta (Smith et al., 1986). The precise mechanisms
   remain to be defined, but roles for both immediate hypersensitivity reactions and local antigen
35 specific IgA have been highlighted (Smith et al., 1986; 1987). Furthermore, antigen-specific IgA
   responses have been correlated with reductions in nematode length (Halliday et al., 2007;
   Smith et al. 2009), whereas IgE responses have been correlated with a reduction in faecal egg
   counts in grazing lambs (Huntley et al., 2001).

   WO 2013/117912                                                         PCT/GB2O13/050247
                                              2
            As sheep can acquire a protective immune response against T. circumcincta
   in natural and experimental circumstances, vaccination represents a possible
   alternative for control.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 5          The present invention is based upon the identification of a number of antigens
   derived from species of the genus Teladorsagia, which can be used to raise immune
   responses in animals - particularly those animals susceptible or predisposed to
   infection by (or with) one or more Te/adorsagia species. The antigens provided by
   this invention may be exploited to provide compositions and vaccines for raising
10 protective immune responses in animals - the protective immune responses serving
   to reduce, prevent, treat or eliminate Teladorsagia infections/infestations.
            In a first aspect, the present invention provides one or more Teladorsagia
   antigen(s) or a fragment thereof, for use in raising an immune response in an animal.
            As stated, the inventors have discovered that the immune responses elicited
15 by the Teladorsagia antigens of this invention protect animals against
   infection/infestation with nematode parasites belonging to the Teladorsagia genus.
   An immune response which protects against infection/infestation by/with a pathogen
   may be a referred to as a "protective response". In the context of this invention, the
   term "protective immune response" may embrace any immune response which
20 facilitates or effects a reduction in host pathogen burden - i.e. the number of
   pathogenic organisms infecting a host. In other embodiments, and in the case of
   animals infected with Teladorsagia parasites, a protective immune response elicited
   through use of the antigen(s) described herein may result in a reduction in the host
   faecal egg count (FEC: namely, the number of parasite eggs per gramme (EPG) of
25 faeces - occurring as a result of suppression of egg output from female parasites in
   the abomasal lumen) and/or a decrease in the numbers of parasitic larvae
   establishing in the abomasal mucosa or a reduction in the numbers of adult worms
   (male and/or female) residing in the abomasal lumen. A protective immune response
   may also slow larval development.
30          One of skill would appreciate that any reduction in pathogen burden/FEC
   achieved through use of the antigen(s) described herein, may be compared to the
   pathogen burden/FEC of an infected animal not exposed to (or administered) the
   antigen(s) provided by this invention - such animals being devoid of (or lacking) a
   protective immune response.
35          A second aspect of this invention provides a composition or vaccine
   composition comprising one or more of the Teladorsagia antigens described herein,

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                  3
   for use in raising an immune response in an animal.              In one embodiment, the
   immune response is a protective response.
           Additionally, or alternatively, the immune response raised in the animal may
   prevent the occurrence of further (subsequent/secondary) Teladorsagia infections
 5 and may also have an effect on the development or survival of co-infecting
   nematodes of other genera.
           In a third aspect, the invention provides the use of one or more Teladorsagia
   antigens or a fragment(s) thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for use in the
   treatment and/or prevention of an infection/colonisation by/with a Teladorsagia
10 pathogen.
           In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a method of raising an anti
    Teladorsagia immune response in an animal, said method comprising the step of
   administering to an animal, an amount of one or more Teladorsagia antigen(s) or
   fragment(s), sufficient to induce an anti- Teladorsagia immune response.
15         Advantageously, the one or more Teladorsagia antigens (or fragments
   thereof) are derived from Teladorsagia circumcincta an ovine parasite infecting the
   abomasum and causing weight loss, diarrhoea and decreased wool production and,
   in some cases, death.
           The term "animal" encompasses animals collectively known as ovine animals.
20 As such, the invention provides antigens and compositions for use in raising immune
   responses in ovine subjects such as sheep and goats - hosts of the Teladorsagia
   circumcinctaparasite.
           As such, one embodiment of this invention provides:
           (i)        one or more antigens derived from T. circumcincta;
25         (ii)      compositions and medicaments comprising one or more antigens
                      derived from T. circumcincta; and
           (iii)       methods    exploiting   one   or more    antigens derived  from   T.
                      circumcincta;
           for use in raising immune responses in ovine animals (including sheep and/or
30 goats).
           It should be understood that all references to "antigen" encompass
   immunogenic components or compounds derived from Teladorsagia, and in
   particular, T. circumcincta. In one embodiment, the term "antigen" encompasses
    Teladorsagia antigens which elicit or mimic immune responses occurring during a
35 natural       infection.        The     term     natural  infection    may   encompass
   environmentally/community acquired infections.

   WO 2013/117912                                                           PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                4
           The term "antigen" may relate to, for example, Teladorsagia proteins and/or
   peptides (including polypeptides and short peptide chains of one or more amino
   acids), glycoproteins and/or glycopeptides. In addition, the term "antigen" may relate
   to carbohydrate molecules. In one embodiment, antigens to be exploited in this
 5 invention may be antigens which are present on the surface of Teladorsagia cells
   and/or exposed to the host (ovine) immune system during an infection. One of skill
   will appreciate that the term "antigens" may also encompass Teladorsagia proteins,
   polypeptides, peptides and/or carbohydrates which are otherwise known as
   "immunogens".
10         In one embodiment, the antigens provided by this invention are antigens,
   which elicit host antibody (for example, IgA and/or IgG) responses.                 In one
   embodiment, the antigens are derived from post-infective larval stages of
    Teladorsagia species. The Teladorsagia antigens provided by this invention may
   include those secreted or excreted by Teladorsagia larvae in the gastric gland milieu
15 during rapid growth phases within the mucosa or by adult worms in the abomasal
   lumen. In one embodiment, the antigens are derived from third and/or fourth stage
    Teladorsagia larvae, but may also be secreted by adult stage parasites. Additionally
   or alternatively, the Teladorsagia antigens described herein may comprise pathogen
   derived immunomodulatory compounds.
20         In a further embodiment, the term "antigen" encompasses the exemplary T.
   circumcincta (Tci) antigens listed as (i)-(ix) below:
           (i)     calcium-dependent apyrase-1 (Tci-APY-1).
           (ii)    astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1).
           (iii)   excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20).
25         (iv)    cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1).
           (v)     transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFs homologue: Tci
                   TGH-2).
           (vi)    activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1).
           (vii)   macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1).
30         (viii)  surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1).
           (ix)    a fragment, mutant, variant or derivative of any of (i)-(viii).
           An exemplary Tci-SAA-1 sequence is deposited under the accession number
   CA043040 and comprises the sequence given below as SEQ ID NO: i.
   SEQ ID NO: 1
35 mfervtvavi      llavsahagf     fddvsglasd       vgdfftkqfn    nvkdlfannq        selekniqrv
   kdllmaikek      akmlepmand     aqkktisevn       nymqqvdafg    aqvkrdgeak        feqnkakwqd
    nlnnifekgg lenvmklmnlk satqctvmaal iapvilaftr

   WO 2013/117912                                                 PCT/GB2013/050247
                                        5
          An exemplary Tci-MIF-I sequence is deposited under the accession number
   CB168362 and comprises the sequence given below as SEQ ID NO: 2.
   SEQ ID NO: 2
   Mpvfsfhtnv sadkvtpdll kqissvvari lhkpesyvcv hvvpdqqmif dgtdgpcgvg
 5 vlksiggvgg sknnehakal falikdhlgi agnrnyiefi digaadiafn srtfa
          An exemplary Tci-ASP-1 sequence is deposited under the accession number
   CBJ15404 and comprises the sequence given below as SEQ ID NO: 3.
   SEQ ID NO: 3
   mftpigiavl ylalvtphak agfccpadld qtdearkill nfhnevrrdv         ssaspllnlt
10 gavimrnvlg paknnykmdw dcnlekkale mispctvplp idtsipqnia qwllyrkmee
   tevlekapws wviaslrnlk ndteadlynw kirtisniln wrntkvgcah kvcqfptgtn
   mviscayggd klennevvwq kgptcecnay pdsyccnnlc dtkaaaalr.e epcksn
          An exemplary Tci-TGH-2 sequence is deposited under the accession number
   ACR27078 and comprises the sequence given below as SEQ ID NO: 4.
15 SEQ ID NO: 4
   mrlinsmgmq eppnvdsidl spatleemle slgendkleq dqeektfima vdpsdgidpd
   mlvarfpvsi ttmvrkvsra ylhvylhvse plpepeivtv vvrerllngd vgdivatnpv
   eiqrsgkavl plrasdverw wksepilgly vvamlngeni avhpqqdhha rhLmfmsvil
   asdaksrgkr spsvcmpedq epgcclydli vdfqqigwkf iiaphkynay mcrgdcsvnh
20 thvtrsghtk vaktgiitrq datgngqmcc hpaeydavrm iymngdnqvt marvpgmiar
   kctcs
          An exemplary Tci-CF-1 sequence is deposited under the accession number
   ABA01328 and comprises the sequence given below as SEQ ID NO: 5.
   SEQ ID NO: 5
25 msllflllip hlfaatvkqq ysggvkplte lrtdlidkkt kgsiefarlg qhispkdfga
   wnhftsfier hdkvyrnese alkrfgifkr nleiirsage ndkgtaiygi nqfadlspee
   Fkkthlphtw kqpdhpnriv dlaaegvdpk eplpesfdwr ehqavLkvkt eghcaaowat
   svtgniegqw flakkklvsl saqqlldcdv vdegcnggfp ldaykeivrm gglepedkyp
   yeakaeqcrl vpsdiavyin gsvelphdee kmrawlvkkg pisigitvdd iqfykggvsr
30 pttcrlssmi hgallvgygv eknipywiik nswgpnwged gyyrmvrgen acrinrfpts
   avvl
          An exemplary Tci-APY-1 sequence is deposited under the accession number
   CBW38507 and comprises the sequence given below as SEQ ID NO: 6.
   SEQ ID NO: 6
35 mllyilslvl lidalppgyp dgkehgsrpt irslpdgste ykllivtdmd kdskagewtw
   ravtregrit 1spdmahvsi awdenserni tssmnikgra melsdlsvfh nriltpddit
   gliseiknnk mipwvflnsg pgnttspfkc ewmtikddvl yvgghgnefr nkqgeivhrn
   nlwiktvtpe gevtnvdwLd vfnnlrnavg isepgylthe avqwsekqgh wyflprkesk
   tvyveeddek kgtdiliign pdldqfetkr igvlrpergy safdfipgtd dkiivalksk

   WO 2013/117912                                                    PCT/GB2013/050247
                                            6
   evtdeptety vtvftidgei llddqkldgn ykfeglyfi
           An exemplary Tci-MEP-1 sequence is given below as SEQ ID NO: 7.
   SEQ ID NO: 7
   mrlavlllvlvvsaqaglldkvkdffkggnfgektktatlskfkkfekgilsignklaemrskvmkk
 5 lelskakkaevdrklkeveermdntvenlkdtifeinavknvgeslfqsdilltkrqveevmdgveggr
   pkrqafkdqnypnLtwqqgvfyrfddsadyytrkvfemgtkqweeatcidfkedkekkaensiiliked
   gcwsyvgqvggeqplslgdgceqvgiathelghalglfhtmsrydrddfitvvlenvvegfvdgyiket
   pqtttnygftydygsimhygassashnnkptmvandtryesmgsqiisfidksmindhynckadcpka
   tsakcqnggfphprkcsecicpsgyggalcdqrptgcgqLlkakeskqflidklgfpsqvrdeftfcnh
10 wieapegkkielkinsishgyahdgcilggveiktsedqtrtgfrfcspndrntvlvsasnrvpiitfn
   rsgqqqiileykvvs
           An exemplary Tci-ES20 sequence is given below as SEQ ID NO: 8.
   SEQ ID NO: 8
   mlrsillilvsavyvsvqgqgngdmkkvelymgyakkdmekvreflklkderltkllsdlfryldktt
15 fewmkdeatleqfiqtrgkfssalvhpdvqkrykdnrklwafryarlmnciggsdmgrataylpgvsvq
   ekeetlryslklertcaytyfr
           As such, one embodiment of this invention provides one or more of the T.
   circumcincta antigens selected from the group consisting of (i)-(ix) above or
20 comprising one or more of the sequences provided as SEQ ID NOS: 1-8 (or a
   fragment thereof), for raising immune responses in animals - in particular ovine
   animals such as sheep and goats.
           Advantageously, the invention provides vaccine compositions comprising one
   or more of the antigens provided as (i)-(ix) above, or one or more antigens
25 comprising the sequences provided as SEQ ID NOS: 1-8 (or a fragment thereof), for
   use in raising immune responses (for example protective immune responses) in
   ovine animals.
           SEQ ID NOS: 1-8 above (and any fragments, variants or derivatives thereof),
   may be regarded as reference sequences - against which the sequences of the
30 fragments, variants and derivatives described herein are compared. In other
   embodiments, the reference sequences may be the wild-type sequences of any of
   the antigens given as (i)-(viii)
           In addition to the definition provided above, the term "antigen" also
   encompasses fragments of any of the antigens described herein - this includes
35 fragments of the antigens listed as (i)-(viii) above and antigens encoded by
   sequences comprising parts of SEQ ID NOS: 1-8. In particular, the term "antigen"
   encompasses antigenic or immunogenic fragments or epitopes capable of eliciting an
   immune response in an animal. Advantageously, the antigen fragments described

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                 7
   herein are capable of eliciting an immune response which is substantially identical or
   similar to, an immune response elicited by the complete antigen from which the
   fragment is derived. In one embodiment, the antigen fragments provided by this
   invention are capable of providing protective immune responses against T.
 5 circumcincta in ovine animals.
            In other embodiments, the term "antigen" or "antigen fragment" may
   encompass variants or derivatives of any of the antigen(s) described herein - such
   antigens being referred to as "variant" or "derivative" antigens. Again, it should be
   understood that these terms include variants/derivatives of any of the antigens given
10 as (i)-(ix) above or encoded by any of SEQ ID NOS: 1-8. Further, the skilled man
   would understand that any variant or derivative antigen may elicit an immune
   response in an ovine animal similar or substantially identical to an immune response
   elicited by the corresponding complete or native antigen in the same host - such
   variants/derivatives may be referred to as "immunogenic variants/derivatives". An
15 immunogenic variant/derivative may comprise or be encoded by, a protein/peptide
   sequence or nucleic acid or amino acid sequence which comprises one or more
   nucleobase and/or amino acid substitutions, inversions, additions and/or deletions
   relative to a reference sequence.
            One of skill will appreciate that the term "substitution" may encompass one or
20 more conservative substitution(s). One of skill in this field will understand that the
   term "conservative substitution" is intended to embrace the act of replacing one or
   more amino acids of a protein or peptide with an alternate amino acid with similar
   properties and which does not substantially alter the physico-chemical properties
   and/or structure or function of the native (or wild type) protein.
25          In the context of this invention, a variant/derivative antigen may comprise or
   be encoded by a mutant sequence which when compared to a reference sequence
   (such as for example a wild type sequence (including sequences encoding any of the
   specific Teladorsagia antigens given as (i)-(viii) above) or sequences comprising
   SEQ ID NOS: 1-8 (or fragments thereof) above), is found to contain one or more
30 amino acid/nucleotide substitutions, additions, deletions and/or inversions.
            An antigen which may be regarded as a derivative may further comprise one
   or more features of a fragment or variant described herein optionally in combination
   with one or more modifications to the structure of the antigen or one or more of the
   amino acid residues thereof.
35          The fragments, mutants, variants and/or derivatives provided by this invention
   may comprise anything from about 5 to about 10 residues (amino acids and/or
   nucleic acids) of the complete amino acid or nucleic acid sequence (n) of (or

   WO 2013/117912                                                           PCT/GB2O13/050247
                                                  8
   encoding) the complete wild-type or native                Teladorsagia (for example     T
   circumcincta) antigen, to about n-1 residues. In certain embodiments, the fragments,
   variants and/or derivatives provided by this invention comprise at least about 10, 15,
   20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300 residues - the upper limit (n-1)
 5 depending upon the size (n) of the nucleic acid encoding the complete antigen or the
   number (n)of amino acid residues comprising the primary sequence of the antigen.
              Additionally, or alternatively, the fragments, variants and/or derivatives
   provided by this invention are at least 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%,
   70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% homologous or identical to
10 the various reference sequences provided herein.
              The degree of (or percentage) "homology" between two or more (amino acid
   or nucleic acid) sequences may be determined by aligning two or more sequences
   and determining the number of aligned residues which are identical or which are not
   identical but which differ by redundant nucleotide substitutions (the redundant
15 nucleotide substitution having no effect upon the amino acid encoded by a particular
   codon, or conservative amino acid substitutions.
              A degree (or percentage) "identity" between two or more (amino acid or
   nucleic acid) sequences may also be determined by aligning the sequences and
   ascertaining the number of exact residue matches between the aligned sequences
20 and dividing this number by the number of total residues compared - multiplying the
   resultant figure by 100 would yield the percentage identity between the sequences.
              In one embodiment, the invention provides multi-component compositions
   and vaccines for use in raising an immune response in an animal, the vaccine and/or
   composition comprising, consisting or substantially consisting of, each of the
25 following T. circumcincta antigens:
              (i)    calcium-dependent apyrase-1 (Tci-APY-1);
              (ii)    astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1);
              (iii)   excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20);
              (iv) cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1);
30            (v)    transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFp homologue: Tci
                      TGH-2);
              (vi)    activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1);
              (vii) macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1); and
              (viii) surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1).
35            In one embodiment, one or more of the T. circumcincta antigens provided as
   (i)-(viii) above, is/are provided as a fragment or variant/derivative (as defined above).

   WO 2013/117912                                                         PCT/GB2013/050247
                                               9
            The inventors have discovered that animals (in particular sheep) administered
   a vaccine composition comprising eight separate T. circumcincta antigens (for
   example, the antigens given as (i)-(viii) above) develop an immune response which
   confers a level of protection which is far higher than that observed following exposure
 5 to prior art vaccines and vaccine compositions. For example, the vaccines provided
   by this invention have been observed to reduce host FECs and luminal parasite
   burdens by approximately 10%-90%, 15%~85%, 20%-80%, 25%-75% or 30%-70%.
            Without wishing to be bound by theory, the inventors hypothesise that the
   success of the vaccines and vaccine compositions described herein is due to the use
10 of antigens which elicit an immune response which mimics that occurring during a
   natural infection and which serves to prevent or suppress nematode-derived
   immunomodulation.
           Antigens to be exploited in this invention may be obtained using recombinant
   technology. In one embodiment, an expression vector comprising one or more
15 nucleic acid sequences encoding a T. circumcincta antigen (such as any of those
   described herein) may be used to produce one or more recombinant T. circumcincta
   antigens for use in raising immune responses in animals - particularly ovine animals.
            Protocols for the recombinant preparation of any of the antigens provided by
   this invention are described herein - see for example section entitled "Production of
20 recombinant proteins for immunisation". Nevertheless, one of skill will appreciate
   that other methods (for example methods utilising different primers and vectors etc.)
   may also be used.
            In view of the above, the invention provides vectors, for example expression
   vectors, comprising nucleic acid sequence(s) encoding one or more of the T.
25 circumcincta antigens described herein (or fragments thereof). By way of example,
   the vectors provided by this invention may comprise plasmid expression systems
   such as those known as pET, pPICZ, pSUMO and/or pGST. Vectors according to
   this invention may otherwise be referred to as "nucleic acid constructs".
            In a further aspect, the present invention provides host cells transfected or
30 transformed with a vector as described herein. Eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells, such
   as, for example plant, insect, mammalian, fungal and/or bacterial cells, may be
   transfected with one or more of the vectors described herein. One of skill in this field
   will be familiar with the techniques used to introduce heterologous or foreign nucleic
   acid sequences, such as expression vectors, into cells and these may include, for
35 example, heat-shock treatment, use of one or more chemicals (such as calcium
   phosphate) to induce transformation/transfection, the use of viral carriers,
   microinjection and/or techniques such as electroporation. Further information

   WO 2013/117912                                                         PCT/GB2013/050247
                                               10
   regarding transformation/transfection techniques may be found in Current Protocols
   in Molecular Biology, Ausuble, F.M., ea., John Wiley & Sons, N.Y. (1989) which is
   incorporated herein by reference.
           In one embodiment, the host cell is a bacterial cell such as, for example, an
 5 Escherichia coil cell.
            In view of the above, the present invention further provides a process for the
   production of a recombinant Teladorsagia antigen encoded by any of the sequences
   described herein (or an immunogenic fragment thereof), which recombinant antigen
   (or immunogenic fragment thereof) is for use in raising an immune response in an
10 animal (for example an ovine), said method comprising the step of (a) transforming a
   host cell with a nucleic acid sequence according to this invention (e.g. a nucleic acid
   encoding a T. circumcincta antigen) or transfecting a host cell with a nucleic acid
   construct of the invention; (b) culturing the cells obtained in (a) under conditions in
   which expression of the nucleic acid (or rather a protein encoded thereby) takes
15 place; and (c) isolating the expressed recombinant protein or peptide from the cell
   culture and/or the culture supernatant.
           Recombinant proteins/peptides produced according to the method described
   above may be partially purified from the host cell before being used in a vaccine or
   vaccine composition. Where the polypeptide is secreted from the host cell, the cells
20 may be separated from the media by centrifugation.             In such a situation, the
   supernatant, which contains the secreted polypeptide, may be used directly as a
   vaccine, or in a vaccine composition. Alternatively, the polypeptide may be partially
   purified from this supernatant, for example using affinity chromatography.
           In one embodiment, the invention provides a composition (for example a
25 vaccine composition) comprising, consisting or substantially consisting of, each of the
   following recombinant T. circumcincta antigens:
           (i)     calcium-dependent apyrase-1 (Tci-APY-1);
           (ii)     astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1);
           (iii)    excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20);
30         (iv)    cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1);
           (v)     transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFp homologue: Tci
                    TGH-2);
           (vi)     activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1);
           (vii)    macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1); and
35         (viii)   surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1);
           for use in raising an immune response in an animal (for example an ovine
   species - including sheep and goats).

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                11
           In one embodiment, any of the Teladorsagia antigens described herein may
   be admixed with another component, such as another polypeptide and/or an
   adjuvant, diluent or excipient. In one embodiment, the vaccine compositions
   provided by this invention may comprise a QuilA adjuvant. Additionally, or
 5 alternatively, vaccines or vaccine compositions provided by this invention may, for
   example, contain viral, fungal, bacterial or other parasite antigens used to control
   other diseases/infections or infestations. For example, the vaccine or vaccine
   composition may be included within a multivalent vaccine, which includes antigens
   against other ovine (for example, sheep) diseases.
10         In a still further aspect, the present invention provides an ovine population, for
   example a farmed population of sheep and/or goats, treated, vaccinated or
   immunised with a vaccine or composition described herein, said vaccine or
   composition comprising one or more of the Teladorsagia antigens described herein.
           One of skill will appreciate that the vaccines described in this invention may
15 take the form of subunit-type vaccines whereby one or more Teladorsagia antigens
   are used to inoculate an animal. Additionally or alternatively, the vaccine may
   comprise a nucleic acid molecule (known as a DNA vaccine) encoding one or more
   antigens encoded by SEQ ID NOS: 1-8 above or an immunogenic fragment thereof,
   to be expressed by the cells of an animal to be vaccinated. In this way, constitutive
20 expression of Teladorsagia antigens in a vaccinated host (such as, for example a
   vaccinated ovine subject (sheep or goat)) may elicit a constitutive protective immune
   response.
           The compositions, including the vaccine compositions, provided by this
   invention may be formulated as sterile pharmaceutical compositions comprising one
25 or more of the antigens described herein and a pharmaceutical excipient, carrier or
   diluent. These composition may be formulated for oral, topical (including dermal and
   sublingual), parenteral (including subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular and
   intravenous), transdermal and/or mucosal administration.
           The (vaccine) compositions described herein, may comprise a discrete
30 dosage unit and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of
   pharmacy. Methods typically include the step of bringing into association one or
   more of the T. circumcincta antigens described herein with liquid carriers or finely
   divided solid carriers or both.
           Compositions (the term "composition" including a vaccine compositions),
35 suitable for oral administration wherein the carrier is a solid are most preferably
   presented as unit dose formulations such as boluses, capsules or tablets each
   containing a predetermined amount of one or more of the Teladorsagia antigens of

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                12
   this invention. A tablet may be made by compression or moulding, optionally with
   one or more accessory ingredients.           Compressed tablets may be prepared by
   compressing in a suitable machine an active compound (for example one or more T
   circumcincta antigen(s)) in a free-flowing form such as a powder or granules
 5 optionally mixed with a binder, lubricant, inert diluent, lubricating agent, surface
   active agent or dispersing agent. Moulded tablets may be made by moulding an
   active compound with an inert liquid diluent. Tablets may be optionally coated and, if
   uncoated, may optionally be scored. Capsules may be prepared by filling an active
   compound, either alone or in admixture with one or more accessory ingredients, into
10 the capsule shells and then sealing them in the usual manner.             Cachets are
   analogous to capsules wherein an active compound together with any accessory
   ingredient(s) is sealed in a rice paper envelope. An active compound may also be
   formulated as dispersible granules, which may for example be suspended in water
   before administration, or sprinkled on food. The granules may be packaged, e.g., in
15 a sachet. Formulations suitable for oral administration wherein the carrier is a liquid
   may be presented as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non-aqueous
   liquid, or as an oil-in-water liquid emulsion.
            Compositions suitable for oral administration include controlled release
   dosage forms, e.g., tablets wherein an active compound (for example one or more
20  Teladorsagia antigens) is formulated in an appropriate release-controlling matrix, or
   is coated with a suitable release-controlling film.      Such compositions may be
   particularly convenient for prophylactic use.
            Composition     and     vaccine    compositions formulated   for   parenteral
   administration include sterile solutions or suspensions of an active compound (for
25 example one or more Teladorsagia antigens) in aqueous or oleaginous vehicles.
            Injectable compositions and vaccines may be adapted for bolus injection or
   continuous infusion. Such preparations are conveniently presented in unit dose or
   multi-dose containers, which are sealed after introduction of the formulation until
   required for use. Alternatively, an active compound (for example one or more T.
30 circumcincta antigens) may be in powder form that is constituted with a suitable
   vehicle, such as sterile, pyrogen-free water or PBS before use.
            Compositions comprising one or more Teladorsagia antigens may also be
   formulated as long-acting depot preparations, which may be administered by
   intramuscular injection or by implantation, e.g., subcutaneously or intramuscularly.
35 Depot preparations may include, for example, suitable polymeric or hydrophobic
   materials, or ion-exchange resins. They may also include preparations or adjuvants
   known to enhance the affinity and/or longevity of an animal (for example ovine)

   WO 2013/117912                                                        PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             13
   immune response, such as single or double emulsions of oil in water. Such long
   acting compositions are particularly convenient for prophylactic use.
           Compositions suitable (or formulated) for mucosal administration include
   compositions comprising particles for aerosol dispersion, or dispensed in drinking
 5 water. When dispensed such compositions should desirably have a particle diameter
   in the range 10 to 200 microns to enable retention in, for example, the nasal cavity;
   this may be achieved by, as appropriate, use of a powder of a suitable particle size or
   choice of an appropriate valve. Other suitable compositions include coarse powders
   having a particle diameter in the range 20 to 500 microns, for administration by rapid
10 inhalation through the nasal passage from a container held close up to the nose, and
   nasal drops comprising 0.2 to 5% w/v of an active compound in aqueous or oily
   solution or suspension.
           It should be understood that in addition to the carrier ingredients mentioned
   above, the various compositions described herein may include, an appropriate one or
15 more additional (pharmaceutically acceptable) carrier ingredients such as diluents,
   buffers, flavouring agents, binders, surface active agents, thickeners, lubricants,
   preservatives (including anti-oxidants) and the like, and substances included for the
   purpose of rendering the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient.
           Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well known to those skilled in the art
20 and include, but are not limited to, 0.1 M and preferably 0.05 M phosphate buffer or
   0.8% saline. Additionally, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be aqueous or
   non-aqueous solutions, suspensions, and emulsions.         Examples of non-aqueous
   solvents are propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, vegetable oils such as olive oil,
   and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water,
25 alcoholic/aqueous solutions, emulsions or suspensions, including saline and buffered
   media.     Parenteral vehicles include sodium chloride solution, Ringer's dextrose,
   dextrose and sodium chloride, lactated Ringer's or fixed oils. Preservatives and other
   additives may also be present, such as, for example, antimicrobials, antioxidants,
   chelating agents, inert gases and the like.
30         Compositions suitable for topical formulation may be provided for example as
   gels, creams or ointments.
           Compositions for veterinary use may conveniently be in either powder or
   liquid concentrate form. In accordance with standard veterinary formulation practice,
   conventional water-soluble excipients, such as lactose or sucrose, may be
35 incorporated in the powders to improve their physical properties. Thus, particularly
   suitable powders of this invention comprise 50 to 100% w/w and preferably 60 to
   80% w/w of the active ingredient(s) (for example one or more T. circumcincta

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                14
   antigens) and 0 to 50% w/w and preferably 20 to 40% w/w of conventional veterinary
   excipients. These powders may either be added to, for example, animal feed
   perhaps by way of an intermediate premix, or diluted in animal drinking water.
            Liquid concentrates of this invention suitably contain one or more T.
 5 circumcincta antigens and may optionally further include an acceptable water
   miscible solvent for veterinary use, for example polyethylene glycol, propylene glycol,
   glycerol, glycerol formal or such a solvent mixed with up to 30% v/v of ethanol. The
   liquid concentrates may be administered to the drinking water of animals.
            In general, a suitable dose of each the T circumcincta antigens provided by
10 this invention may be in the range of about 10 to about 100 pg protein per animal.
   Furthermore, the one or more antigens described herein may be administered on
   about 2 to about 5 occasions over a period of about I to about 10 weeks or on an
   annual boost basis. In one embodiment, each animal may be administered about 10,
   15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95 or 100[tg of each (or
15 a predetermined selection of) the one or more antigens described herein. As such,
   where the vaccine comprises 8 antigens, the total protein content may range from
   about   8 0kg  to about 800pg.      Furthermore, each animal may be administered the
   antigen(s) on 2, 3, 4 or 5 occasions over a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 week period.
    It should be understood that each animal may receive the same or a different dose of
20 the T. circumcincta antigen(s) on each administration occasion.
            In one embodiment, a vaccine formulated for administration to sheep may
   comprise approximately 50kg of each Teladorsagia (for example T. circumcincta)
   antigen.    As such, where the vaccine comprises, for example, 8 T. circumcincta
   antigens, the total protein (antigen) content may be in the region of 4 00kg. Further,
25 the vaccine may be administered three times with a three week gap between each
   administration.
            In addition to providing T. circumcincta antigens for use in raising immune
   responses in animals, the present invention may also provide polyclonal and/or
   monoclonal antibodies (or antigen binding fragments thereof) that bind (or have
30 affinity or specificity for) any of the Teladorsagia antigens provided by this invention.
   Production      and    isolation  of   polyclonal/monoclonal   antibodies   specific   for
   protein/peptide sequences is routine in the art, and further information can be found
   in, for example "Basic methods in Antibody production and characterisation" Howard
   & Bethell, 2000, Taylor & Francis Ltd. Such antibodies may be used in diagnostic
35 procedures, to, for example detect or diagnose T. circumcincta infection/infestations
   in animal (for example ovine) species, as well as for passive immunisation.

   WO 2013/117912                                                      PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              15
            The present invention further provides a vaccine for use in preventing or
   controlling T. circumcincta infection/infestation and associated diseases in ovine
   hosts. The vaccine may be a polypeptide or polynucleotide vaccine.
           The invention further provides a method for immunising an ovine subject
 5 against T. circumcincta infection/infestation and associated disease (for example
   secondary infections etc.), said method comprising the step of administering a
   vaccine of the invention to the ovine subject.
           While this invention predominately concerns antigens derived from the
   nematode organism T circumcincta and their use in vaccine compositions for raising
10 immune responses in animals (particularly ovine animals), owing to a high degree of
   homology between the T. circumcincta antigens described herein and specific
   antigens from other, closely related, nematode species, the utility of the antigens
   provided by this invention is not necessarily limited to raising immune responses
   which are protective against Teladorsagia infections/infestations. In particular, the
15 antigens described herein exhibit significant homology/identity to certain antigens
   derived from the bovine pathogen, Ostertagia ostertagi. Details of these antigens
   and an indication of the level of identity exhibited between the disclosed T.
   circumcinta antigens and certain related O. osterlagi antigens are given in the table
   below.
20
    Teladorsagia   Accession Function*             Closest          %        %         0. ost
   circumcincta     number                         Ostertagia       identity Cover- reference
   Antigen                                         ostertagi                 -age
                                                   homologue
   Tci-SAA-1       CA043040       L3-enriched      B0098696.1a,     94%      100%      Unpublished
                                  surface                                    (aal
                                  associated                                 162)
                                   antigen
   Tci-MIF-1       CB168362       L3-enriched      B0457770.1       99%      91%       Unpublished
                                  macrophage                                 (aal 1
                                  migration                                  115)
                                   inhibitory
                                  factor
   Tci-ASP-1       CBJ15404       L4-enriched      CAD23183.1       76%      97%       Mol Biochem
                                  activation-                                (aa5-     Parasitol
                                  associated                                 235)      2003; 126,

   WO 2013/117912                                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                        16
                                           secretory                                                      201-208
                                           protein
   Tci-TGH-2              ACR27078         Transforming       No significant hit        -
                                            growth            in NCBI, EMBL
                                           protein            or Nembase 4
                                           2-like protein
   TciCF-1                ABA01328         L4-enriched        B0457843.1*           73%          59%      Unpublished
                          **               Secreted                                              (aal2
                                           cathepsin F                                           229)
   Tci-ES20               Not yet          Excretory/         CAC44259.1            35%          100%     Mol Biochem
                          submitted*       secretory (ES)                                        (aal -   Parasitol
                                           protein                                               140)     2003; 126,
                                                                                                          201-208
   Tci-MEP-1              Not yet          Astacin-like       CAD19995.2            69%          100%     Parasitology
                          submitted*       ES                                                    (aal-    2002; 125,
                          **               metalloprotein                                        498)     383-391
                                           ase
   Tci-APY-1              CBW3850          L4-enriched        ADG63133.1            92%          96%      Parasitology
                          7                ES calcium-                                           (aal2-   2011; 138,
                                           activated                                             339)     333-343
                                           apyrase
   *Putative or inferred function
   **Tci-CF-1 is highly polymorphic, the clone used for vaccine production had following amino acid
   substitutions compared to published sequence. In each case the amino acid in the published sequence
   is Initalics, that in the vaccine isoform sequence isin normal font and the amino acid position in the
 5 published sequence is in subscript: 1zT 4 4 , N10,1D101, T2 zA 2 , Ra.Ois, R30o     5 Kaos, Lco Psce,
   S07 =Ywo   7
   ***Full length sequences not yet deposited.
   * From translated EST sequence
     with following caveat from authors: "WARNING: Subsequent examination of these samples has
10 revealed the presence of an additional Trichostrongyloidea cattle nematode, Cooperia oncophora.
   Sequences in this library may derive from either Ostertagia or Cooperia."
              In view of the above, it should be understood that the various aspects and
   embodiments of this invention (as applying to T. circumcincta antigens and their use
   in raising immune responses in animals, especially ovines) may further apply to one
15 or more of the O. ostertagi antigens described above.
              Moreover, in view of the levels of identity exhibited between the T.
   circumcincta antigens described herein and the 0. ostertagi antigens identified
   above, one or more of the T circumcincta antigens described herein may be used to
   raise immune responses in bovine subjects, the immune responses being protective
20 and serving to reduce, prevent, treat or eliminate Ostertagia (for example 0.

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2O13/050247
                                               17
   ostertagi) infections/infestations. One of skill will appreciate that the T circumcincta
   antigens provided by this invention may be used individually or together (for example
   2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or all 8 of the T. circumcincta antigens) to raise immune responses in
   bovine hosts.
 5          Alternatively, the present invention may extend to the use of one or more (for
   example 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or all 7) of the 0. ostertagi antigens presented in the table
   above, optionally in combination with one or more of the T circumcincta antigens
   described herein, for use in raising immune responses in bovine subjects. Again,
   such immune responses may be protective against Ostertagia infections/infestations.
10          In one embodiment, this invention extends to compositions or vaccine
   compositions comprising one or more of the Ostertagia antigens described above
   optionally in combination with one or more the T. circumcincta antigens described
   herein, for use in raising immune responses in bovine subjects.
            The invention may further provide uses of one or more of the Ostertagia
15 antigens optionally in combination with one or more of the Teladorsagia antigens for
   the manufacture of medicaments for use in the treatment and/or prevention of an
   infection/colonisation by/with an Ostertagia pathogen in a bovine host. Similarly, the
   invention may also embrace methods of raising anti-Ostertagia responses in bovine
   hosts, the methods comprising administering to a bovine subject, an amount of one
20 or more of the Ostertagia antigens described above, sufficient to induce an anti
   Ostertagia immune response.
            One of skill will appreciate that references to the Ostertagia antigens
   described above not only include antigens comprising or consisting of the sequences
   identified by the Accession numbers presented in the table above, but fragments
25 thereof - in particular, fragments which are capable of raising immune responses (for
   example protective immune responses) in bovine animals (i.e. the fragments are
   antigenic and/or immunogenic) as well as mutants, variants and/or derivatives
   thereof. It should be understood that the definitions of fragments, mutants, variants
   and/or derivatives provided in relation to the Teladorsagia antigens of this invention,
30 also apply to the Ostertagia antigens described above. As such, the Ostertagia
   antigen fragments, variants and/or derivatives encompassed by this invention may
   exhibit at least 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%,
   90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% homology or identity to the various Ostertagia
   sequences described above.
35          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the
   following Figures which show:

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              18
            Figure 1: Effects of immunization of sheep with recombinant antigens derived
   from Teladorsagia circumcincta on faecal worm egg counts (FWEC) after challenge
   infection. Panels A and C: FWECs of sheep challenged with 2000 T. circumcincta
   three times per week for 4 weeks following immunization with an 8-protein cocktail in
 5 the context of Quil A (dashed line) or with Quil A only (solid line). Each data point
   represents the arithmetic mean FWEC  SEM. Panel A represents data from Trial 1;
   Panel C represents data from Trial 2. Panels B and D show cumulative FWECs, for
   each animal in each group in Trial 1 (Panel B) and Trial 2 (Panel D). "Imm"
   represents sheep immunized with the 8-protein cocktail; "Con" represents those
10 administered with Quil A adjuvant only. Note that, in panel D, for Groups 1 and 2 in
   Trial 2, cumulative FWEC is calculated over 84 days, whereas for Groups 3 and 4
   cumulative FWEC is calculated over 112 days. One "outlier" animal in Group 1 of
   Trial 2, sheep number 675J, is indicated.
            Figure 2. Trial 1: Lumenal T. circumcincta burdens of sheep in Group I and
15 Group 2. Each data point represents the mean number ( SEM) of T. circumcincta
   enumerated in lumenal contents of seven sheep in each group. Panel A depicts
   counts categorised into developmental stage and the gender of the adult worms
   harvested. Panel B depicts the counts as overall burdens (all stages and genders).
    "* denotes a significant difference between the means (P < 0.05),       **  denotes a
20 highly significant difference between mean (P< 0.01).
            Figure 3. Trial 1: Mucosal T. circumcincta burdens of sheep in Group I and
   Group 2. Each data point represents the mean number ( SEM) of nematodes
   harvested from the mucosal contents of seven sheep in each group.         '* denotes a
   significant difference between the means (P< 0.05).
25          Figure 4: Effects of immunization of sheep with recombinant antigens derived
   from Teladorsagia circumcincta on abornasal nematode burden after challenge
   infection (Trial 1). Panels A-C represent the number of T. circumcincta enumerated in
   the abomasum. Panel A depicts the total nematode burden, panel B the adult
   nematode burden and panel C the juvenile nematode burden of each of seven sheep
30 in Group 1 (immunized) or Group 2 (control, adjuvant only). Horizontal bars represent
   the mean value.
            Figure 5: Weight gain of sheep in Group 1 and Group 2 from Day 0 to Day 84
   of the experiment (Trial 1).
            Figure 6: Effects of immunization of sheep with recombinant antigens derived
35 from Teladorsagia circumcincta on juvenile nematode burden distribution after
   challenge infection (Trial 2; Group I and Group 2). Numbers of juvenile T.
   circumcincta enumerated in the abomasal lumen and the abomasal mucosa of each

   WO 2013/117912                                                      PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              19
   of these sheep are shown. "Imm" represents sheep immunized with the 8-protein
   cocktail; "Con" represents those immunized with Quil A adjuvant only.
            Figure 7: Effects of immunization of sheep with recombinant antigens derived
   from Teladorsagia circumcincta on abomasal nematode burden after challenge
 5 infection (Trial 2; Group 3 and Group 4). Data shown represent the total numbers of
    T. circumcincta enumerated in the abomasum of each of seven sheep in Group 3
   (immunized) or Group 4 (control, adjuvant only).
            Figure 8: Serum antibody responses of sheep to the recombinant
   proteins used to immunize Group 1 in Trial 1. Each data point represents the
10 mean value derived from 7 sheep. Standard errors in panels A and B have
   been omitted to aid interpretation. Panels A and B show serum antibody
   responses for vaccinated sheep (Group 1). Panel A shows data for IgG, panel
   B shows data for IgA. "Imm" represents dates on which sheep were
   immunized; "Trick" represents the trickle infection; "PM" is the post mortem
15 date.
            Figure 9: Serum antibody responses of sheep to the recombinant proteins
   used to immunize Groups 1 and 3 in Trial 2. Each data point represents the mean
   value derived from 14 sheep until day 84, after which each data point represents the
   mean of 7 sheep necropsied later in the trial. Standard errors have been omitted to
20 aid interpretation. Panel A shows data for IgG, panel B shows data for IgA. "Imm"
   represents dates on which sheep were immunized; "Trick" represents the trickle
   infection; "PM" is the post-mortem date.
            Figure 10: Serum antibody responses of sheep to L4 excretory/secretory
   products of Teladorsagia circumcincta. 'Imm' represents the days on which animals
25 were immunized with recombinant antigen cocktail (Immunized group) or adjuvant
   only (Control group).
            Figure 11: Immunoblots to investigate serum IgG (Panel A) and IgA (Panel B)
   binding to components of somatic extracts and excretory/secretory products of
    Teladorsagia circumcincta. Lanes I and 5 contain L3 somatic extract, lanes 2 and 6
30 contain L4 somatic extract, lanes 3 and 7 contain L4 ES material and lanes 4 and 8
   contain adult somatic extract. Blots were incubated with sera pooled from 7
   immunized sheep (Lanes 1-4, sheep from Group 3, Trial 2) or non-immunized sheep
   (Lanes 5-8, sheep from Group 4, Trial 2). Sera had been collected from the animals
   on the date of the third immunization immediately prior to the initiation of trickle
35 infection. * represents molecular mass (kDa).

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             20
           Figure 12: Serum IgG responses of control, adjuvant only recipients to
   recombinant Tci-MEP-1 and Tci-APY-1. Each data point represents the mean value
   ( SEM) derived from 7 (Trial 1, panel A) or 14 (Trial 2, Panel B) sheep until day 84,
   after which each data point represents the mean of 7 sheep in Trial 2.
 5         Figure 13: Mucosal antibody titres to the recombinant proteins used to
   immunize sheep in Trial 1. Each bar represents the mean value derived from 7 sheep
   ( SEM). Panel A shows data for IgG, panel B shows data for IgA. Asterisks indicate
   mean values which are statistically significantly higher than those for the remaining
   antigens within the same treatment group.
10         Figure 14: Mucosal antibody titres to the recombinant proteins used to
   immunize sheep in Trial 2. Each bar represents the mean value derived from 7 sheep
   ( SEM). Panel A shows data for IgG, panel B shows data for IgA. Asterisks indicate
   mean values which are statistically significantly higher than those for the remaining
   antigens within that Group.
15         Figure 15: Mucosal antibody levels to the recombinant proteins used to
   immunize sheep in Trials 1 and 2. Panels A and B show data for IgG, panels C and D
   show data for IgA. All graphs show correlation biplots jointly representing sheep
   (points) and their antigen-specific antibody responses (axes). The arrows indicate
   directions of higher antigen-specific antibody response. The orthogonal projection of
20 points onto each axis approximates the relative responses by sheep. The
   correlations between responses to specific antigens are represented by the angle
   between the corresponding vectors for each antigen. Open circles represent
   immunized sheep, closed circles represent control, non-immunized sheep. In Trial 2
   (Panels B and D), blue circles and pink circles represent Groups I and 3
25 (immunized) respectively. Green and orange circles represent control Group 2 and 4
   respectively.
   Materials and Methods
   Productionof recombinantproteins for immunisation
           Eight recombinant proteins were used in combination to immunise 6 month
30 old lambs. Details of these proteins are given in Table 1. Three proteins,
   macrophage migration inhibitory factor-1 (Tci-MIF-1), calcium-dependent apyrase-1
   (Tci-APY-1) and a TGFP homologue (Tci-TGH-2) were selected because of their
   putative immunoregulatory function (McSorley et al., 2009; Nisbet et al., 2010a;
   Nisbet et al., 2011). The remaining five proteins were selected using a combined
35 immunoscreening/proteomics approach: cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1), astacin-like
   metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1), a 20 kDa protein of unknown function (Tci-ES20)
   and activation-associated secretory protein-1 (Tci-ASP-1) (Redmond et al., 2006;

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              21
   Smith et al., 2009; Nisbet et al., 201 Ob). A final protein was chosen because of its
   homology to known vaccine candidate antigens of other parasitic nematodes. This
   protein is known as surface-associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1, Nisbet et al., 2009).
   Cloning and sequencing of the cDNA encoding Tci-SAA-1, Tci-MIF-1 and Tci-APY-1
 5 and production of recombinant versions of each of these proteins in a bacterial
   expression system have been described previously (Nisbet et al., 2009; Nisbet et al.,
   201 0a; Nisbet et al., 2011). Identical production and purification parameters were
   employed in the current study. For Tci-MEP-1, oligonucleotide primers for use in the
   rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) were designed from the EST sequence
10 CB036707 and RACE performed using the SMARTTM RACE kit (Clontech) according
   to the manufacturer's instructions, using total RNA extracted from L4 stage T.
   circumcincta (prepared as described in Nisbet et al., 2008) as a template.
   Amplification of the full coding sequence (CDS) of Tci-mep-1 was performed using
   oligonucleotide primers incorporating the initiation and termination codons from the
15 contigs generated by 5' and 3' RACE, cDNA generated from L4 as template
   (prepared as described in Redmond et al., 2006) and the Advantage@ 2 PCR Kit
   (Clontech) according to the manufacturer's instructions.       Following confirmatory
   sequencing, oligonucleotide primers were designed to amplify the CDS of Tci-mep-1,
   omitting the sequence encoding the signal peptide (bases 1-48 of the CDS) and the
20 termination codon. Using these primers, plasmid containing the full-length CDS as a
   template and the Advantage@ 2 PCR Kit (Clontech), Tci-mep-l was amplified and
   sub-cloned into the expression vector pET SUMO (Invitrogen). The resulting plasmid
   was used to transform Escherichia coli BL21-CodonPlus* (DE3)-RIL competent cells
   (Stratagene). Recombinant protein expression was induced in the presence of 1 mM
25 isopropyl p-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). Insoluble recombinant Tci-MEP-1 was
   purified from inclusion bodies solubilised in 8M urea, followed by nickel column
   affinity chromatography using HisTrapIHP columns (GE Healthcare) and a step
   wise imidazole gradient in the presence of 8M urea in 20mM phosphate buffer, pH
   7.6.    Purified Tci-MEP-1 was then dialysed against 2M urea in 20mM phosphate
30 buffer, pH 7.6. The full CDS of the cDNA encoding Tci-TGH-2 (accession number
   FJ410914) was amplified by PCR using oligonucleotide primers incorporating the
   initiation codon, but omitting the termination codon. Plasmid containing the full CDS
   in a cloning vector was used as a template (kindly supplied by Prof Rick Maizels,
   University of Edinburgh) and the Advantage@ 2 PCR Kit (Clontech) was employed
35 according to the manufacturer's instructions.      Tci-tgh-2 was sub-cloned into the
   expression vector pET SUMO (Invitrogen) and recombinant protein expression
   performed as described above. Soluble recombinant Tci-TGH-2 was purified from

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             22
   cell lysates by nickel column affinity chromatography using HisTrapTM HP columns
   (GE Healthcare).      Next, rTci-TGH-2 was eluted in 500 mM imidazole, 20mM
   phosphate buffer, pH 7.6 and then dialysed against 20mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.6
   at RT for 3 hrs. Sub-cloning of the CDS of Tci-asp-1 (after removal of the bases
 5 encoding the signal peptide) from a pET22b(+) vector (described in Nisbet et al.,
   2010b) into pET SUMO, using the conditions outlined above for Tci-tgh-2, permitted
   the expression of soluble recombinant Tci-ASP-1 which was expressed and then
   purified by nickel column affinity chromatography as described, above, for Tci-TGH
   2. For the expression of Tci-CF-1 protein, oligonucleotide primers were designed to
10 amplify the CDS of Tci-cf-1, omitting the sequence encoding the signal peptide
   (bases 1-42 of the CDS) and the termination codon. Using these primers, cDNA
   generated from L4 as template (prepared as described in Redmond et al, 2006) and
   the Advantage@ 2 PCR Kit (Clontech), Tci-cf-I was sub-cloned into the vector
   pPICZaC (Invitrogen) and used to transform the yeast Pichia pastors [X-33 Mut*
15 strain (Invitrogen)] following linearisation with Pmel (New England Biolabs).
   Recombinant protein expression was induced in the presence of 0.5% methanol, as
   described in Nisbet et al. (2007) and soluble recombinant Tci-CF-1 was purified from
   culture supernatant by nickel column affinity chromatography as described above for
   Tci-TGH-2. Tci-ES20, a homologue of a 20kDa excretory/secretory (ES) protein of
20 Ostertagia ostertagi, was identified during an immunoscreening/proteomic analysis of
   immunogenic T. circumcincta ES molecules (Smith et al., 2009).         The complete
   coding sequence was determined by obtaining the putative full-length cDNA via
   polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification from a cDNA library. This SMARTTM
   cDNA library was constructed [using T. circumcincta L4 (8 days post infection, dpi)
25 RNA] in XTriplEx2 by long-distance PCR following manufacturer's instructions
   (Clontech). It was packaged using Gigapack Gold III packaging extract (Stratagene)
   and amplified in E. coli XL1-Blue cells (Stratagene). A gene-specific oligonucleotide
   primer (incorporating the putative termination codon identified from EST C8043664)
   was used in conjunction with a vector-specific primer to amplify the Tci-es2O CDS
30 directly from a heat-denatured phage lysate preparation of the library. The resultant
   amplicon was column-purified (QlAquick PCR purification kit, Qiagen) and ligated
   into pGEM*-T (Promega).          Constructs were transformed into E colt JM109
   (Promega), colonies with Tci-es2O-containing plasmids were isolated and propagated
   and the plasmids subjected to automated sequencing (Eurofins MWG operon). The
35 cDNA encoding Tci-ES20 was then subcloned into the vector pPICZaC (Invitrogen)
   and used to transform P. pastoris [X-33 (Mut') strain (Invitrogen)] following

  WO 2013/117912                                                      PCT/GB2013/050247
                                           23
  linearisation with Pmel (New England Biolabs). Recombinant protein expression and
  purification were as described, above, for Tci-CF-1.    Protein concentrations were
  determined using the Pierce BCATM (bicinchoninic acid) assay (Thermo Scientific)
  with bovine serum albumin (BSA) standards and stability and integrity of each
5 recombinant protein were monitored using SDS-PAGE. Tci-MIF-1; Tci-APY-1; Tci
  SAA-1; Tci-CF-1; Tci-ES20 and Tci-MEP-1 were stored in solution at +4C and Tci
  ASP-1 and Tci-TGH-2 were stored at -20'C.
  Table 1
  Table 1. Recombinant proteins used in Teladorsagia circumcinctavaccine trial
  Name           Accession       Function*             Expression       Reference
                 number                                system
  Tci-SAA-1      CAQ43040        L3-enriched           pET22b(+)        Nisbet et al.,
                                 surface associated    E. coli BL21     2009
                                 antigen               (DE3)-RIL
  Tci-MIF-1      CR168362        L3-enriched           pET22b(+)        Nisbet et al.,
                                 macrophage            E. coli BL21     201 0a
                                 migration inhibitory  (DE3)-RIL
                                 factor
  Tci-ASP-1      CBJ15404        L4-enriched           pET SUMO         Nisbet et al.,
                                 activation-           E. coli BL21     201 Ob
                                 associated            (DE3)-RIL
                                 secretory protein
  Tci-TGH-2      ACR27078        Transforming          pET SUMO         McSorley et
                                 growth protein 2-     E. coli BL21     al., 2010
                                 like protein          (DE3)-RIL
  Tci-CF-1       ABA01328**      L4-enriched           pPICZaC          Redmond et
                                 Secreted cathepsin    Pichia pastoris  al., 2006
                                 F                     X33 strain
  Tci-ES20       Not yet         Excretory/secretory pPICZaC            Smith et al.,
                 submitted***    (ES) protein          Pichia pastoris 2009
                                                       X33 strain
  Tci-MEP-1      Not yet         Astacin-like ES       pET SUMO         Smith et al.,
                 submitted***    metalloproteinase     E. coli BL21     2009
                                                       (DE3)-RIL
  Tci-APY-1      CBW38507        L4-enriched ES        pSUMO            Nisbet et al.,

   WO 2013/117912                                                                    PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                      24
                                          calcium-activated           E coi BL21        2011
                                          apyrase                     (DE3)-RIL
   *Putative or inferred function
   **Tci-CF-1 is highly polymorphic, the clone used for vaccine production had following
   amino acid substitutions compared to published sequence. In each case the amino
   acid in the published sequence is in italics, that in the vaccine isoform sequence is in
 5 normal font and the amino acid position in the published sequence is in subscript:
   lerTu, N101       D1 0 1, T129 -:A 1 , R 137 zpQ 137 , Roosz 3 05 , L 6zs'P3 o, SM 7 Y30 7
    **Full length sequences not yet deposited. These molecules have been derived
   from EST data in the public domain: Tci-ES20 based on CB043664, Tci-MEP-1
   based on CB036707
10
   Immunisation trial
            Fourteen, Texel crossbred male/female sheep which had been raised in
   conditions to minimise helminth infection risk, were housed in two groups of 7
   animals in separate pens within the same building. The sheep were 204-206 days
15 old at the initiation of the experiment. Faecal egg counts (FEC, Christie and Jackson
   1982), performed prior to initiation of the experiment, confirmed that all animals had
   negative FECs. Sheep in Group 1 were immunised by subcutaneous injection using
   a 400 pg recombinant protein mix (incorporating 50 pg each Tci-ASP-1; Tci-MIF-1;
   Tci-TGH-2; Tci-APY-1; Tci-SAA-1; Tci-CF-1; Tci-ES20; Tci-MEP-1 in PBS) plus 5 mg
20 total Quil A (Brenntag Biosector). Seven of the 8 recombinant proteins were PBS
   soluble and were administered as a mixture in a single injection with 2.5 mg Quil A.
   Tci-MEP-l was insoluble in PBS and was therefore formulated with 100 mM urea in
   PBS plus 2.5 mg Quil A. The two preparations were injected subcutaneously, one
   immediately following the other, at two sites on the neck of each sheep. Each sheep
25 received three immunisations of the recombinant protein mix with an interval of 3
   weeks between each immunisation.                 Sheep in the control group (Group 2) each
   received three immunisations with urea/PBS/Quil A only, at the same time as the
   sheep in Group 1. On the day of the third immunisation, an oral trickle challenge was
   initiated whereby each sheep in both groups was administered with 2000 T
30 circumcincta L3. This was continued three times per week (Monday, Wednesday
   and Friday) for 4 weeks. Blood samples were taken prior to each immunisation and
   weekly samples taken from the day of the third immunisation onwards to determine
   antigen-specific serum IgA and IgG responses and serum pepsinogen levels (Lawton
   et al., 1996).    FECs were performed (Christie and Jackson 1982) three times per

   WO 2013/117912                                                      PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             25
   week (Monday, Wednesday and Friday) from 14 days after the start of the trickle
   challenge until the end of the experiment 5 weeks later. All sheep were weighed
   weekly. For both groups, abomasal swab samples were collected at post-mortem
   (Smith et al., 2009) to determine levels of antigen-specific IgA and IgG antibody at
 5 the abomasal mucosal surface. At necropsy, lumenal and mucosal nematode
   burdens (adult and larval parasites) were enumerated following standard techniques.
   The percentage of stunted or "inhibited" larvae was determined, based on size, as
   described previously (Halliday et al., 2010). The experiment was performed under
   the regulations of a UK Home Office Project Licence.
10
    Trial 2
            Twenty-eight, Texel crossbred male/female sheep were raised as described
   for Trial 1 and were housed in four groups of 7 animals. The sheep were 172-178
   days old and were not excreting helminth eggs at the start of the experiment. Groups
15 1 and 3 were immunized by subcutaneous injection using the recombinant protein
   mix exactly as described for Trial 1, with each sheep receiving three immunizations
   with an interval of 3 weeks between each. Sheep in Groups 2 and 4 each received
   three immunizations with urea/PBS/Ouil A, at the same time as Groups 1 and 3. At
   the final immunization, the oral trickle challenge commenced in all Groups and all
20 biological samples were obtained as described above, for Trial 1. Sheep in Groups 1
   and 2 were euthanized 7 weeks after the start of the infection period (as for Trial 1)
   and those in Groups 3 and 4 were euthanized 4 weeks later. For all groups, lumenal
   and mucosal nematode burdens were enumerated as described for Trial 1. Trial 1
   and Trial 2 were performed under the strict regulations of a UK Home Office Project
25 Licence and the experimental design was ratified by the Moredun Research Institute
   Experiments and Ethics Committee.
   Measurement of antibody responses to recombinant antigens
            Following initial antibody:antigen titrations to ensure optimisation of the
30 technique, antigen-specific antibody levels in serum and abomasal mucus samples
   were assessed by ELISA. High binding microtitre plates (Greiner Bio-One) were
   coated overnight at 40C with 50 pl antigen (5 pg mL- in 50 mM carbonate buffer, pH
   9.6). Plates were washed six times with wash buffer [phosphate buffered saline
   (PBS), 0.05% v/v Tween-20], then blocked with 5% soya milk powder in 0.5% (v/v)
35 Tween 20 in Tris Buffered Saline (TTBS), pH 7.4, for 1 h at room temperature. After
   washing, 50 pl abomasal mucus (diluted 1:4 in TTBS) from individual animals or 50 p1
   serum [diluted at 1:10 (IgA) or 1:1000 (IgG) in TTBS], were added and incubated for

   WO 2013/117912                                                        PCT/GB2013/050247
                                               26
   1 h at room temperature. Wells were re-washed and 50 li horseradish peroxidase
   conjugated polyclonal mouse anti sheep/goat IgG (A9452, Sigma) at 1:1000 or 50 pl
   mouse anti-bovine/ovine IgA monoclonal antibody (Serotec, MCA628) at 1:250 in
   TTBS, were added for 1 h at room temperature. After a further wash, the IgG ELISA
 5 was developed by the addition of 50 pl o-phenylenediamine dihydrochloride substrate
   (OPD, Sigma) to each well. After 15 min in darkness, the reaction was stopped by
   addition of 25 pl 2.5M H2SO 4 and OD values read at 490 nm. For the IgA ELISA, 50
   pl horseradish peroxidase-conjugated polyclonal rabbit anti-mouse IgG (P0260,
   DakoCytomation), at 1:1,000 were added for 1 h at room temperature prior to a final
10 wash and development with OPD as described above. Each sample was assayed in
   triplicate. OD values were corrected against a reagent blank and all test plates had a
   positive and negative serum control to account for plate to plate variation.
   Measurement of antibody responses to native T. circumcincta antigens
15            Antigen-specific IgG levels in the sera of sheep which had been immunized
   with the recombinant antigen cocktail, or the non-immunized control sheep, were
   assessed by ELISA. The native antigens used to coat ELISA plates were somatic
   extracts of T. circumcincta L3, prepared as described previously (Nisbet et al., 2009),
   along with L4 ES products, prepared as described in Smith et al., (2009). Antigen
20 specific IgG levels were assessed in all sera from animals in Trial 1 and from four,
   randomly selected, animals from Groups 1 and 2 of Trial 2. All experimental
   conditions were as described, above, for the determination of recombinant antigen
   specific IgG levels in serum by ELISA.
   Immunoblotting of nematode somatic extracts
25          Somatic extracts of T. circumcincta L3, L4 and adult worms, prepared as
   described previously (Nisbet et al., 2009), along with L4 ES products, prepared as
   described in Smith et al., (2009), were subjected to immunoblotting using serum,
   collected on the date of the third (final) immunization immediately prior to the
   initiation   of  trickle  infection, from    immunized    or  non-immunized      sheep.
30 Immunoblotting, to determine serum IgG and IgA binding to components of each
   extract, was performed as described previously (Nisbet et al., 2009) using pools of
   serum from 7 immunized (Group 3) and 7 non-immunized sheep (Group 4).
   Statistical analysis
            A generalised additive mixed modelling (GAMM) approach was adopted for
35 the analysis of longitudinal FEC data. A GAMM model on log(FEC+l) was specified
   with Gaussian error structure and identity link function, with group as a fixed effect
   and animal effects introduced as random. The model included separate smoothing

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                               27
   curves to model the nonlinear relationship of the response with time by group and
   non-homogenous within-group variances were allowed. A first order autoregressive
   residual correlation structure was incorporated.        Serum and mucosal antibody
   responses to individual antigens were modelled using linear mixed models (LMMs)
 5 with group as a fixed effect and animal as a random effect. For serum antibody data,
   repeated measures over time were modelled by random intercept and slope LMMs
   also including time and its interaction with group as a fixed effect. Heterogeneous
   within-group variances were allowed in all cases. Linear contrasts were set up to
   compare subsets of antigen-specific responses in abomasal mucus at post mortem.
10          In Trial 2, the 28 animals were housed in 4 separate groups (pens) of 7
   animals for logistical reasons. Two groups (14 animals) were immunized (Group 1
   and Group 3), and the other two (14 animals) were used as adjuvant-only controls
   (Group 2 and Group 4). Pen effects between the two immunized groups (1 and 3)
   and between the two adjuvant-only groups (2 and 4) were tested. No statistically
15 significant pen effects were found for any of the above response types, so Groups 1
   and 3 were combined and Groups 2 and 4 were combined for data modelling. For
   analysis of worm burden data, generalised linear models (GLMs) were used. Data
   overdispersion was detected and it was generally accounted for by specifying a
   negative binomial error distribution.         Where necessary, overdispersion was
20 incorporated using Poisson GLMs correcting the standard errors by specifying the
   mean and variance relationship. Nematode burdens were assessed at post mortem
   in Groups 1 and 2 four weeks before those of Groups 3 and 4, so data were analysed
   separately.
            Model selection was based on the Akaike's information criterion (AIC) and
25 likelihood ratio tests (LRT) (Akaike, 1974). The mixed models were fitted by residual
   maximum likelihood (REML; Smouse and Kojina, 1972).              Throughout the data
   analysis some animal measurements were identified as outliers. Their influence on
   parameter estimates was considered in each case. The Cook's distance with a 4/n
   cut-off value was used to support decisions in relation to outlying values (Cook,
30 1977).     Statistically significant terms were determined at the level of 0.05.    All
   statistical analyses were conducted using R version 2.13.
   Results
   FECs analysis
35          Trial 1: FEC data is shown in Figure 1A and B. Sheep in both immunised and
   control groups began to excrete trichostrongyle type eggs in their faeces from 16-19
   days after the start of the trickle challenge. In both groups, FECs rose until 23 days

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             28
   after the start of challenge. Thereafter, sheep in Group I excreted substantially
   fewer eggs than those in Group 2. By the end of the experiment, at day 42 of the
   trickle challenge, Group 1 sheep were producing a mean of 8.7 ( 5.5) eggs per
   gramme (EPG) of faeces, whereas sheep in Group 2 were producing 107.6 ( 50.8)
 5 EPG, representing a reduction of 92% in mean FEC at that time-point.            REML
   (GAMM) analysis identified an overall effect of treatment (immunization) (P = 0.003)
   and time (P < 0.001), and a significant treatment  x time interaction (P = 0.20). The
   mean cumulative FECs for the duration of the experiment, estimated by taking the
   sum of all egg counts on each sampling date, were 252 ( 132) EPG in Group 1 and
10 890 ( 231) EPG in Group 2, representing an overall mean FEC reduction of 72% in
   the immunised versus the control group.         FEC Mean cumulative FECs for the
   duration of the challenge period, calculated using the area under the curve (AUC,
   Taylor et al., 1997) technique were 595 ( 316) EPG in Group 1 and 1975 ( 532)
   EPG in Group 2, representing an overall reduction of 70% in the immunized versus
15 the control (adjuvant only) group (Figure 1B).
            In Trial 2, sheep began to excrete nematode eggs from 14-16 days after
   challenge (Figure 1C). At peak egg shedding, on day 86, mean FECs in the extant
   immunized group (Group 3) were 251  75 EPG, whereas in the control group
   (Group 4) they were 908  158 EPG, representing a 73% reduction in mean FEC.
20 Mean cumulative FECs, calculated using the area under the curve (AUC, Taylor et
   al., 1997) technique, in Trial 2 were 4998 () 2233 EPG in Group I (immunized) and
   4127 () 803 EPG in Group 2 (adjuvant only, Figure 1D). The high mean FECs, and
   associated SEM, in Group 1 were attributable to the influence of data from a single
   outlier animal (sheep 675J, Figure 1D). Influence was assessed using Cook's
25 distance criterion (Cook, 1977): 675J was regarded as a "highly influential" case
   (Cook's distance = 0.3129 based on a LMM model). For Groups 3 and 4, which were
   necropsied 4 weeks after Groups 1 and 2, mean cumulative FECs were 7005 () 681
   EPG in Group 3 (immunized) and 16727 () 2,699 EPG in Group 4 (control, adjuvant
   only), representing an overall mean FEC reduction of 58% in the immunized versus
30 the control group (Figure 1D). GAMM analysis indicated a statistically-significant
   effect of immunization (data from Groups 1 and 3 combined vs. Groups 2 and 4
   combined as detailed in Materials and Methods) on FEC over the course of the
   experiment (P= 0.0237).
   Abomasal parasite burdens
35 Trial 1: preliminary analysis
   Abomasal T. circumcincta enumerations were subdivided into lumenal and mucosal
   burdens.     Within the lumen, Group 1 sheep had significantly fewer adult male

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              29
   (P=0.004) and female T circumcincta (P = 0.011, Figure 2A) than was observed in
   the Group 2 sheep. There was no significant difference in parasite gender ratio
   between the two groups. Taking all developmental stages and genders into account
   (Figure 2B) Group 1 harboured significantly fewer luminal parasites than the sheep in
 5 Group 2 (P = 0.0037) - sheep in Group 1 had 72% less nematodes in the abomasal
   lumen than those in Group 2. Within the mucosa, the numbers of adult female
   worms in Group 1 were significantly less than those observed in Group 2 (P = 0.016)
   (Figure 3). There was no significant difference between the numbers of male worms
   or larval stages enumerated in the mucosa in the two groups, although fewer male
10 worms were enumerated in Group 1 sheep and fewer larval stages in Group 2 sheep
   (Figure 3).
   Trial 1: supplementary analysis of total worms numbers (lumenal plus
   mucosal)
    Immunized sheep (Group 1) harboured 55% fewer T. circumcincta (total of adults
15 and larvae) at necropsy than control, adjuvant only (Group 2) sheep (P = 0.011,
   Figure 4A). Group I sheep had statistically-significantly lower mean adult nematode
   burdens than sheep in Group 2 (75% reduction, P = 0.0066, Figure 4B). Comparison
   of juvenile nematode burdens in the abomasum indicated no significant differences
   between the two groups (Figure 4C). No significant differences were observed in the
20 length of worms recovered from the different groups (data not shown).
   Liveweightgain
           The average increase in weight from Day 0-Day 84 of sheep in Group 1 was
   2.1 kg more than that observed in sheep in Group 2 (p = 0.10) (Figure 5).
   Trial 2
25 Groups I and 2 (postmortem at day 84):
           The total abomasal nematode burdens (adults and larvae) in immunized
   sheep were not statistically significantly different to the control, adjuvant only group
   (mean total nematode burdens: Group 1; 6843  1144, Group 2; 6250  966). When
   adult nematode burdens and juvenile nematode burdens were analysed separately,
30 the adult nematode burdens in immunized sheep were not statistically significantly
   different to the control, adjuvant only group. Comparison of the juvenile nematode
   burdens indicated that immunized sheep had fewer juvenile nematodes than control,
   adjuvant only sheep in the abomasal lumen (Group 1: 50  42; Group 2: 218  81),
   (Figure 6). Because of the preponderance of "zero" values in the counts from the
35 immunized sheep, statistical analysis using models was unreliable in this case.
   Conversely, there were more juvenile stages in the abomasal mucosa of Group i
   than Group 2 (Group 1: 643  198; Group 2: 114  70; P-0.0367, Figure 6).

   WO 2013/117912                                                      PCT/GB2013/050247
                                            30
   Groups 3 and 4 (postmortem at day 112):
            Immunised sheep (Group 3) harboured 57% fewer T. circumcincta total
   nematodes at necropsy than did the control, adjuvant only (Group 4) recipients (P =
   0.0199, Figure 7). In both Groups 3 and 4, adult worms comprised 99% of the total
 5 nematode burden and no significant difference in the numbers of juvenile stages was
   observed between the two Groups.
   Measurement of serum antibody responses to T.circumcincta antigens
   In both trials, following tertiary immunization, serum IgG levels against all
   recombinant proteins reached peak levels, which declined slowly thereafter (Figures
10 8A and 9A). Serum IgA levels peaked after secondary immunization and, for all
   recombinants, with the exception of Tci-MIF-1, levels remained relatively constant
   until the end of the experiment (Figures 8B and 9B). Following immunization with the
   recombinant antigens, sheep produced serum IgG, prior to parasite challenge, which
   bound native L4 ES components (Figure 10). The nature of the immunoreactive
15 antigens in this ES material, and other T. circumcincta extracts, was investigated
   further by immunoblotting: IgG bound to parasite components, in somatic extracts of
   L4 and adult T. circumcincta as well as L4 ES, of the expected size range for the
   following vaccine components, Tci-CF-1 (23.9 kDa), Tci-APY-1 (38.6 kDa) and Tci
   MEP-1 (55.6 kDa) (Figure 11A). IgA also bound parasite components, in somatic
20 extracts of L4 and adult T. circumcinctaand L4 ES, of the expected size range for the
   vaccine components, Tci-CF-1, Tci-APY-1 (Adult only) and Tci-MEP-1 (Figure 11 B).
   In addition IgA bound an unknown parasite component of ca. 43 kDa in L3 somatic
   extract.
            In both Trials 1 and 2, from 14 days after initiation of challenge, control,
25 adjuvant only recipients generated serum IgG that bound recombinant Tci-MEP-1
   and Tci-APY-1 (Figure 12). Antigen-specific serum IgA which bound to the
   recombinant proteins was not observed in the control, adjuvant only recipients (data
   not shown).
30          Measurement of antibody responses to recombinant antigens in
   abomasal mucus
   In Trial 1 and 2, mean recombinant antigen-specific mucosal IgG levels in abomasal
   mucus of the immunized sheep were significantly higher than in the control, adjuvant
   only recipients for each protein (Figures 13A and 14A). In Trial 1, mean Tci-APY-1-,
35 Tci-MEP-1-, and Tci-CF-1-specific IgG levels were significantly higher than those
   measured against the other five recombinants (P <0.0001), whereas in Trial 2, mean
   Tci-MEP-1-specific IgG levels were significantly higher than responses to the

   WO 2013/117912                                                           PCT/GB2013/050247
                                               31
   remaining antigens (Day 84 necropsy) while Tci-MEP-1- and Tci-APY-I-specific IgG
   levels were significantly higher at the Day 112 necropsy. A joint biplot representation
   of animals and antigen-specific mucosal IgG responses (Figures 15A and 15B)
   illustrates the relationships between treatments, between animals within groups, with
 5 respect to IgG responses to the different antigens and overall differences between
   immunized and control, adjuvant only sheep.
            Mucosal Tci-APY-1- and Tci-MEP-1-specific IgA levels were significantly
   higher than those directed against the other six recombinant antigens in Trial 1 and 2
   (Figures 13B and 14B). The overall differences between immunized sheep and
10 adjuvant only recipients are represented in joint biplots of animals and antigen
   specific mucosal IgA responses in Figures 15C and 15D.
   Discussion
            Here, we demonstrated that immunisation of sheep with a cocktail of eight
   recombinant T. circumcincta proteins results in significant levels of protection in
15 terms of FECs and parasite burdens when compared to challenge control sheep. As
   far as we are aware, this is the first published report of successful vaccination against
   this nematode species using a recombinant vaccine. Indeed, the levels of protection
   are higher than observed in any other system using a recombinant vaccine against a
   parasitic nematode in the definitive ruminant host. The level of protection achieved,
20 in terms of FEC and abomasal luminal burden, is similar to the highest reported
   levels following vaccination with detergent extracts of T. circurncincta L3
   (Wedrychowicz et al., 1992;1995).          In those experiments immune anti-parasite
   responses were variable, but parasite burdens were significantly reduced (by up to
   72%) and FECs were reduced by more than 70%.                The antigens that stimulated
25 protection in the previous trials (Wedrychowicz et al., 1992; 1995) were not
   characterised in detail and their identity remains elusive.
            Other attempts to protect sheep against T. circumcincta using native antigen
   preparations, for example lectin-binding integral membrane glycoproteins, have not
   been successful (Smith et al., 2001). This general lack of success in immunisation
30 against T. circumcincta is in contrast to the situation in other, closely related, parasitic
   nematode species. For example, the closest homologues of Tci-ASP-1, the N-type
   single domain ASPs, Oo-ASP-1 and Oo-ASP-2, are the principal components of an
   ASP-enriched native extract of adult Ostertagia ostertagiwhich has been used with
   success in vaccination trials in cattle (Geldhof et al., 2002, 2004; Meyvis et al., 2007).
35 However, vaccination with a recombinant version of Oo-ASP-1 has failed to induce
   either protective immunity or native-antigen specific antibodies in vaccinated calves
   (Geldhof et al., 2008). This reflects the outcomes of many nematode vaccine trials

   WO 2013/117912                                                         PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              32
   using recombinant versions of native proteins/complexes where the native molecules
   show great promise, but where recombinant versions fail to induce protective
   immunity (Geldhof et al., 2007). This "pragmatic" approach to antigen identification,
   where protective native extracts are identified by an iterative process of fractionation
 5 and vaccination and recombinant versions of single (or multiple e.g. see Cachat et
   al., 2010) protective antigens are produced and tested in vivo, therefore appeared to
   be of limited value for the development of a vaccine against T. circumcincta.
            The approach to antigen identification described herein was substantially
   different to the pragmatic approach, and followed a more targeted approach by
10 attempting to mimic and exploit elements of the natural, successful immune response
   to T. circumcincta in infected sheep. First, we identified potential vaccine candidate
   molecules by immunochemical and proteomic analyses; this was done by screening
   immunoblots of T. circumcincta ES material with IgA from infected, immune sheep
   and comparing these responses to those observed in infected, non-immune sheep or
15 non-infected sheep (Smith et al., 2009). We also identified a homologue of a known
   protective antigen [Ac-SAA-1 (Zhan et al, 2004)] using bioinformatic analysis of
   stage-specific cDNA libraries (Nisbet et al., 2008; 2009). Finally, using a combination
   of these technologies, we identified a suite of potentially immunosuppressive
   molecules produced by the parasite (McSorley et al., 2010, Nisbet et al., 2010a;
20 2011). We produced recombinant versions of each of these molecules, examined
   that they were targets of IgA present in mucus derived from immune sheep and then
   combined them into a multi-component vaccine which aimed to provoke the host
   immune system to respond to potentially immunostimulatory molecules (Tci-CF
   1,Tci-MEP-1,Tci-ES20,Tci-ASP-1       and Tci-SAA-1)     and to produce a possible
25 neutralising effect on putatively immunosuppressive components.           The rationale
   behind using a combination of recombinant molecules, as opposed to single
   antigens, is as follows: previous vaccination trials using single recombinant antigen
   preparations of homologues of some of the molecules described herein, in different
   nematode/host models, have failed.       In 0. osterlagi, for example, the astacin-like
30 metalloproteinase MET-1, which shares >50% amino acid identity with Tci-MEP-1,
   was selected by immunoscreening but failed to give any protection when used as a
   single recombinant antigen in a vaccine trial (De Maere et al., 2005).         Similarly,
   recombinant Oo-ASP1, which shares >75% sequence identity with Tci-ASP-1 (Nisbet
   et al., 2010b), has failed to induce protective immunity in vaccinated calves (Geldhof
35 et al., 2008) and a recombinant version of the Necator americanus orthologue of Tci
   SAA-1 (Na-SAA-1 , 71% amino acid identity) failed to induce significant protection
   against L3 challenge in a hamster model (Xiao et al., 2008).

   WO 2013/117912                                                           PCT/GB2013/050247
                                               33
            The mechanism of action of the vaccine used herein is not yet clear. These
   nematodes are acquired by ingestion of L3 from pasture. Thereafter, the developing
   parasites (L3 and L4) and adult worms reside in the host's abomasum. Protective
   immunity against T. circumcincta in sheep exposed to continuous field or
 5 experimental trickle challenge has been associated with decreased larval
   establishment (L3) and development (L3 and L4) in the mucosa and reduced egg
   output from female worms in the lumen (Balic et al., 2003; Seaton et al., 1989; Smith
   et al., 1985, 1986; Stear et al., 2004). In the current study, in Trial 2, adult worm
   burdens in vaccinated and adjuvant only groups were similar at day 84, so it seems
10 unlikely that exclusion and expulsion of incoming L3 or death/delayed development
   of L4 worms was responsible for the observed reduction in adult parasite numbers at
   day 112 of that trial. The reduction in the numbers of adult worms may therefore be
   ascribed to either a direct effect anti-parasitic effect of the induced immune response
   against the adult worms or a cumulative fitness-reducing effect throughout the life of
15 the worm, culminating in the lower level, or shorter duration, of adult survival.
            The immune mechanisms responsible for the observed effects on the
   parasites are likely to be complex: In naturally-acquired immunity to T circumcincta
   in sheep roles for immediate hypersensitivity reactions and for larval antigen-specific
    IgA in gastric secretions have been indicated (Smith et al., 1986; 1987; Stear et al.,
20  1995; 1999; Halliday et al., 2007; Smith et al. 2009). Cellular effectors of the immune
   response, e.g. y6TCR* T cells, CD4* T cells, eosinophils, globular leukocytes and
   mast cells may also play a role in immunity against T. circumcincta in naturally- or
   experimentally-exposed sheep (e.g. Stear et al., 2002; 2009, Balic et al., 2003;
   Halliday et al., 2010, Williams 2012).
25          In conclusion, we have developed a multi-component vaccine against T.
   circumcincta which, in experimental circumstances, reduced mean FECs and mean
   luminal parasite burdens by >70%. It should be noted that, according to Barnes et
   al., (1995) it is not essential for a vaccine against parasitic nematodes to be 100%
   effective in sheep, and "substantial benefits" can be gained by using a vaccine that is
30 60% effective in 80% of the flock, if the vaccine is based on the stimulation of *natural
   immunity'. On this basis, the results of this study would clearly indicate that the
   vaccine used here holds much potential. It is not yet clear whether all of the eight
   recombinant protein components of the vaccine are required for this level of efficacy
   and further work will seek to clarify this and also to confirm the anti-parasite effects of
35 the 8-protein cocktail vaccine.
   References

   WO 2013/117912                                                         PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             34
   Balic, A., Bowles, V.M., Liu, Y.S. & Meeusen, E.N. Local immune responses in
   sensitized sheep following challenge infection with Teladorsagia circumcincta.
   Parasite Immunol. 25, 371-381 (2003).
   Barnes, E.H., Dobson, R.J. & Barger, I.A. Worm control and anthelmintic resistance:
 5 adventures with a model. Parasitology Today 11, 56-63 (1995).
   Bartley, D.J, Jackson, F., Jackson, E. & Sargison, N. Characterisation of two triple
   resistant field isolates of Teladorsagia from Scottish lowland sheep farms. Vet.
   Parasitol. 123,189-199 (2004).
   Cachat, E., Newlands, G.F., Ekoja, S.E., McAllister, H., Smith, W.D. Attempts to
10 immunize sheep against Haemonchus contortus using a cocktail of recombinant
   proteases derived from the protective antigen, H-gal-GP. Parasite Immunol 32, 414
   419. (2010).
   Christie, M. & Jackson, F. Specific identification of strongyle eggs in small samples of
   sheep faeces. Res Vet Sci32, 113-117 (1982).
15 De Maere, V., Vercauteren, I., Geldhof, P., Gevaert, K., Vercruysse, J. & Claerebout,
   E. Molecular analysis of astacin-like metalloproteases of Ostertagia ostertagi.
   Parasitology 130, 89-98 (2005).
   Geldhof, P., Claerebout, E., Knox, D., Vercauteren, I, Looszova, A. & Vercruysse, J.
   Vaccination of calves against Ostertagia ostertagi with cysteine proteinase enriched
20 protein fractions. Parasite Immunol. 24, 263-270 (2002).
   Geldhof, P., Vercauteren, I., Vercruysse, J., Knox, D.P., Van Den Broeck, W. &
   Claerebout, E. Validation of the protective Ostertagia ostertagi ES-thiol antigens with
   different adjuvantia. Parasite Immunol. 26, 37-43 (2004).
   Geldhof, P., De Maere, V., Vercruysse, J. & Claerebout, E. Recombinant expression
25 systems: the obstacle to helminth vaccines? Trends Parasitol23, 527-532 (2007).
   Geldhof, P., Meyvis, Y., Vercruysse, J. & Claerebout E. Vaccine testing of a
   recombinant activation-associated secreted protein (ASP1) from Ostertagia ostertagi.
   Parasite Immunol. 30, 57-60 (2008).
   Gibson T.E. & Everett, G. Effect of different levels of intake of Ostertagia
30 circumcincta larvae on the faecal egg counts and weight gain of lambs. J Comp
   Pathol 86, 269-274 (1976).
   Halliday, A.M., Routledge, C.M., Smith, S.K., Matthews, J.B. & Smith, W.D. Parasite
   loss and inhibited development of Teladorsagia circumcincta in relation to the kinetics
   of the local IgA response in sheep. Parasite Immunol. 29, 425-434 (2007).
35 Halliday, A.M., McAllister, H.C. & Smith, W.D. Kinetics of the local immune response
   in the gastric lymph of lambs after primary and challenge infection with Teladorsagia
   circumcincta. Parasite Immunol 32, 81-90 (2010).

   WO 2013/117912                                                         PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              35
   Houdijk, J.G., Kyriazakis, I., Jackson, F., Huntley, J.F. & Coop, R.L. Effects of protein
   supply and reproductive status on local and systemic immune responses to
    Teladorsagia circumcincta in sheep. Vet Parasitol 129 105-117 (2005).
   Huntley, J.F., Redmond, J., Welfare, W., Brennan, G., Jackson, F., Kooyman, F. &
 5 Vervelde, L. Studies on the immunoglobulin E responses to                  Teladorsagia
   circumcincta in sheep: purification of a major high molecular weight allergen. Parasite
   Immunol23, 227-235 (2001).
   Lawton, D.E., Reynolds, G.W., Hodgkinson, S.M., Pomroy, W.E. & Simpson, H.V.
   Infection of sheep with adult and larval Ostertagia circumcincta: effects on abomasal
10 pH and serum gastrin and pepsinogen. /nt J Parasitol26, 1063-1074 (1996).
   McSorley, H.J., Grainger, J.R., Harcus, Y.M., Murray, J., Nisbet, A.J., Knox, D.P. &
   Maizels, R.M. Expression of highly conserved TGF-p family members in the
   Trichostrongyloid nematodes Haemonchus contortus, Heligmosomoides polygyrus,
   Nippostrongylus brasiliensis and Teladorsagia circumcincta. Parasitology 137, 159
15 171 (2010).
   Meyvis, Y., Geldhof, P., Gevaert, K., Timmerman, E., Vercruysse, J. & Claerebout, E.
   Vaccination against Ostertagia ostertagi with subfractions of the protective ES-thiol
   fraction. Vet. Parasitol. 149, 239-45 (2007).
   Nieuwhof, G.J. & Bishop, S.C. Costs of the major endemic diseases of sheep in
20 Great Britain and the potential benefits of reduction in disease impact. Animal Sci.
   81, 23-29 (2005).
   Nisbet, A.J., MacKellar, A., McLean, K., Brennan, G.P. & Huntley, J.F. Eukaryotic
   expression of recombinant Pso o 1, an allergen from Psoroptes ovis, and its
   localization in the mite. Parasitology 134, 83-89 (2007).
25 Nisbet, A.J., Redmond, D.L., Matthews, J.B., Watkins, C., Yaga, R., Jones, J.T., &
   Knox, D.P. Stage-specific gene expression in Teladorsagia circumcincta (Nematoda:
   Strongylida) infective larvae and early parasitic stages. Int J Parasitol 38, 829-338
   (2008).
   Nisbet, A.J., Knox, D.P., McNair, C.M., Meikle, LI., Smith, S.K., Wildblood, L.A. &
30 Matthews, J.B. Immune recognition of the surface associated antigen, Tc-SAA-1,
   from infective larvae of Teladorsagia circumcincta. Parasite        immunol. 31, 32-40
   (2009).
   Nisbet, A.J., Bell, N.E.V., McNeilly, T.N., Knox, D.P., Maizels, R.M., Meikle, LI.,
   Wildblood, L.A. & Matthews, J.B. A macrophage migration inhibitory factor-like
35 tautomerase from Teladorsagia circumcincta (Nematoda: Strongylida). Parasite
   Immunol. 32, 503-511 (2010a).

   WO 2013/117912                                                          PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              36
   Nisbet, A.J., Smith, S.K., Armstrong, S., Meikle, L.I., Wildblood, L.A., Beynon, R.J. &
   Matthews, J.B. Teladorsagia circumcincta: Activation-associated secreted proteins in
   excretory/secretory products of fourth stage larvae are targets of early IgA responses
   in infected sheep. Exp ParasitoI125, 329-337 (2010b).
 5 Nisbet, A.J., Zarlenga, D.S., Knox, D.P., Meikle, L.I., Wildblood- L.A. & Matthews, J.B.
   A calcium-activated apyrase from Teladorsagia circumcincta: an excretory/secretory
   antigen capable of modulating host immune responses? Parasite Immunol in press
   (2011).
   Redmond, D.L., Smith, S.K., Halliday, A., Smith, W.D., Jackson, F., Knox, D.P. &
10 Matthews, J.B. An immunogenic cathepsin F secreted by the parasitic stages of
    Teladorsagia circumcincta. Int J Parasitol 36, 277-286 (2006).
   Seaton, D.S., Jackson, F., Smith, W.D. & Angus, K.W. Development of immunity to
   incoming radiolabelled larvae in lambs continuously infected with Ostertagia
   circumcincta. Res. Vet Sci. 46, 241-246 (1989).
15 Singleton, D.R., Stear, M.J. & Matthews, L. A mechanistic model of developing
   immunity to Teladorsagia circumcincta infection in lambs. Parasitology DOI:
   10.1017/S0031182010001289 (2011).
   Smith, S.K. Nisbet, A.J., Meikle, L., Inglis, N., Sales, J., Beynon, R.J. & Matthews,
   J.B. Proteomic analysis of excretory/secretory products released by Teladorsagia
20 circumcincta larvae early post-infection Parasite Immunol 31, 10-19 (2009).
   Smith, W.D., Jackson, F., Jackson, E. & Williams, J. Age immunity to Ostertagia
   circumcincta: comparison of the local immune responses of 4 1/2- and 10-month-old
   lambs. J. Comp. PathoL. 95, 235-245 (1985).
   Smith, W.D., Jackson, F., Jackson, E., Graham, R., Williams, J., Willadsen, S.M &
25 Fehilly, C.B.   Transfer of immunity to Ostertagia circumcincta and IgA memory
   between identical sheep by lymphocytes collected from gastric lymph. Res. Vet. Sci.
   41, 300-306 (1986).
   Smith, W.D,, Jackson, F., Graham, R., Jackson, E. & Williams, J. Mucosal IgA
   production and lymph cell traffic following prolonged low level infections of Ostertagia
30 circumcincta in sheep. Res Vet Sci 43, 320-326 (1987).
   Smith, W.D., Pettit, D. & Smith, S.K. Cross-protection studies with gut membrane
   glycoproteins from Haemonchus contortus and Teladorsagia circumcincta. Parasite
   Immunol. 23, 203-211 (2001).
   Stear, M.J., Bairden, K., Innocent, G.T., Mitchell, S., Strain, S. & Bishop, S.C. The
35 relationship between IgA activity against 4th-stage larvae and density-dependent
   effects on the number of 4th-stage larvae of Teladorsagia circumcincta in naturally
   infected sheep. Parasitology 129, 363-369 (2004).

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              37
   Taylor SM, Kenny J, Edgar HW, Ellison S, Ferguson L (1997) Efficacy of moxidectin,
   ivermectin and albendazole oral drenches for suppression of periparturient rise in
   ewe worm egg output and reduction of anthelmintic treatment for lambs. Vet Record
   141: 357-360.
 5 Wedrychowicz, H., Bairden, K., Tait, A. & Holmes, P.H. Immune responses of sheep
   to surface antigens of infective larvae of Ostertagia circumcincta. Parasite Iimunol,
   14: 249-266 (1992).
   Wedrychowicz, H., Bairden, K., Dunlop, E.M., Holmes, P.H. & Tait, A. Immune
   response of lambs to vaccination with Ostettagia circumcincta surface antigens
10 eliciting bile antibody responses. Int J Parasitol25, 1111-1121 (1995).
   Wrigley, J., McArthur, M., McKenna, P.B. & Mariadass, B. Resistance to a triple
   combination of broad-spectrum         anthelmintics in naturally-acquired   Ostertagia
   circumcincta infections in sheep. N. Z Vet. J. 54, 47-49 (2006).
   Xiao, S., Zhan, B., Xue, J., Goud, G.N., Loukas, A., Liu, Y., Williamson, A., Liu, S.,
15 Deumic, V. & Hotez, P. The evaluation of recombinant hookworm antigens as
   vaccines in hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) challenged with human hookworm,
   Necator americanus. Exp Parasitol 118, 32-40 (2008).
   Zhan, B., Wang, Y., Liu, Y., Williamson, A. Loukas, A., Hawdon, J.M., Xue, H.C.,
   Xiao, S.H. & Hotez, P.J. Ac-SAA-1, an immunodominant 16 kDa surface-associated
20 antigen of infective larvae and adults of Ancylostoma caninum. Int J Parasitol 34,
   1037-1045 (2004).

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2013/050247
                                             38
   Claims
   1.      One or more Teladorsagia antigen(s) or a fragment thereof, for use in raising
   an immune response in an animal.
 5 2.      The antigens for use of claim 1, wherein the one or more Teladorsagia
   antigens are derived from Teladorsagia circumcincta.
   3.      The antigens for use of claim 1 or 2, wherein the one or more antigens is/are
   one or more of the T. circumcincta (Tci) antigens selected from the group consisting
10 of:
           (i)    cathepsin F-i (Tci-CF-1);
           (ii)   calcium-dependent apyrase-I (Tci-APY-1);
           (iii)  astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1);
           (iv)   excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20);
15         (v)    transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFp homologue: Tci
                  TGH-2);
           (vi)   activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1);
           (vii)  macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1);
           (viii) surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1); and
20         (ix)   a homolog, fragment, mutant, variant or derivative of any of (i)-(viii).
   4.      The antigens for use of any preceding claim, wherein one or more of the
   antigens comprise a sequence exhibiting a degree of homology or identity to a
   sequence of SEQ IDNOS: 5,1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 or 8.
25
   5.      The antigens for use of any preceding claim, wherein the antigen is cathepsin
   F-i (Tci-CF-1) or a homolog, fragment, mutant or variant thereof.
   6.      The antigen for use of claim 5, wherein the cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1) antigen
30 comprises a sequence exhibiting a degree of identity or homology to SEQ ID NO: 5,
   or a fragment thereof.
   7.      The antigen for use of claims 5 or 6, wherein the antigen is used in
   combination with one or more other antigens selected from the group consisting of:
35         (i)    calcium-dependent apyrase-1 (Tci-APY-1);
           (ii)   astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1);

   WO 2013/117912                                                        PCT/GB2013/050247
                                              39
           (iii)   excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20).
           (iv)    transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGF3 homologue: Tci
                   TGH-2);
           (v)     activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1);
 5         (vi)    macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1);
           (vii)   surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1);
           (viii) An antigen     encoded by a sequence exhibiting a degree of
           identity/homology with a sequence of SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 or 8; and
           (ix)    a homolog, fragment, mutant, variant or derivative of any of (i)-(viii).
10
   8.      The antigens, for use of any preceding claim, wherein the animal is an ovine
   animal, sheep or goat.
   9.      The antigens, for use of any preceding claim, wherein the antigen(s) is/are
15 recombinant antigens.
   10.     The antigens, for use of any preceding claim, wherein the immune response
   is a protective immune response.
20 11.     The antigens for use of any preceding claim, wherein the immune response
   reduces host T. circumcincta FECs and luminal T. circumcincta burdens.
   12.     A composition comprising one or more Teladorsagia antigen(s) for use in
   raising an immune response in an animal.
25
   13.     A vaccine comprising one or more Teladorsagia antigen(s) for use in raising
   an immune response in an animal.
   14.     The composition or vaccine for use of claims 12 or 13, wherein the one or
30 more antigens is/are one or more of the T. circumcincta (Tci) antigens selected from
   the group consisting of:
           (i)     cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1);
           (ii)    calcium-dependent apyrase-1 (Tci-APY-1);
           (iii)   astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1);
35         (iv)    excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20);

   WO 2013/117912                                                        PCT/GB2O13/050247
                                             40
           (v)    transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFp homologue: Tci
                  TGH-2);
           (vi)   activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1);
           (vii)  macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1);
 5         (viii) surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1);
           (ix)   an antigen encoded by a sequence exhibiting a degree of
                  identity/homology to a sequence of SEQ ID NOS: 5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 or
                  8; and
           (x)    a homolog, fragment, mutant, variant or derivative of any of (i)-(ix).
10
   15.     A composition comprising T. circumcincta cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1) or a
   homolog, fragment, mutant or variant thereof, for use in raising and immune
   response in an animal.
15 16.     The composition of claim 15, wherein the cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1) antigen or
   fragment, homolog, variant or mutant thereof, comprises a sequence of SEQ IDNO:
   5.
   17.     The composition of claims 15 or 16, further comprising one or more T.
20 circumcincta antigens selected from the group consisting of:
           (i)    calcium-dependent apyrase-I (Tci-APY-1);
           (ii)   astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1);
           (iii)  excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20);
           (iv)   transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFp homologue: Tci
25                TGH-2);
           (v)    activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1);
           (vi)   macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1);
           (vii)  surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1);
           (viii) an antigen encoded by a sequence exhibiting a degree of
30                homology/identity to a sequence of SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 or 8;
                  and
           (ix)   a homolog, fragment, mutant, variant or derivative of any of (i)-(viii).
    18.    The composition or vaccine for use of claims 12-17, wherein the antigen(s)
35 is/are recombinant antigens.

   WO 2013/117912                                                            PCT/GB2013/050247
                                                41
   19.     The composition or vaccine for use of claims 12-18, wherein the animal is an
   ovine animal and the immune response is a protective immune response.
   20.     A vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding (i) one or more of the
 5  T. circumcinctaantigens of claim 3, part (i)-(ix) and/or (ii) a nucleic acid sequence
   encoding an amino acid sequence exhibiting a degree of identity or homology to one
   or more of the sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 1-8.
   21.     A host cell transformed with the vector of claim 20.
10
   22.     A method of producing a recombinant T. circumcincta antigen, the method
   comprising the steps of:
            (a) transforming a host cell with the vector of claim 20;
            (b) culturing the cells obtained in (a) under conditions in which expression of
15 the T.circumcincta antigen takes place; and
            (c) isolating the expressed antigen from the cell culture and/or the culture
   supernatant.
   23.     The antigens, composition or vaccine for use of claims 1-19, wherein the
20 antigen(s) are admixed with another vaccine, polypeptide, adjuvant, diluent or
   excipient.
   24.     An ovine population, vaccinated or immunised with the composition or
   vaccine of claims 12-19.
25
   25.     The antigens for use of claims 3 or 4 or composition/vaccine for use of claim
   12-14, wherein a homolog of one or more T circumcincta antigens is an antigen
   having a sequence which exhibits at least 60% homology or identity to one or more
   of the T circumcincta antigens listed in claim 4, parts (i)-(viii) or an Ostertagia
30 ostertagi antigen selected from the group consisting of:
            (i)     B0098696.1;
            (ii)    BQ457770.1;
            (iii)   CAD23183.1;
            (iv)    B0457843.1;
35          (v)     CAC44259.1;
            (vi)    CAD19995.2; and
            (vii)   ADG63133.1.

   WO 2013/117912                                                       PCT/GB2O13/050247
                                             42
   26.    The antigens, composition or vaccine for use of claim 25, wherein the
   immune response is raised in a bovine host.
 5 27.    An antibody that specifically binds to one or more of the antigens selected
   from the group consisting of:
          (i)     cathepsin F-1 (Tci-CF-1).
          (ii)    calcium-dependent apyrase-1 (Tci-APY-1).
          (iii)   astacin-like metalloproteinase-1 (Tci-MEP-1).
10        (iv)    excretory/secretory protein (unknown function: Tci-ES20).
           (v)    transforming growth protein 2-like protein (a TGFp homologue: Tci
                  TGH-2).
          (vi)    activation associated secretory protein (Tci-ASP-1).
          (vii)   macrophage migration inhibitory factor (Tci-MIF-1).
15        (viii)  surface associated antigen (Tci-SAA-1);
          (ix)    an antigen encoded by a sequence exhibiting a degree of
                  homology/identity to a sequence of SEQ ID NOS: 5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 or
                  8; and
          (x)     a homolog, fragment, mutant, variant or derivative of any of (i)-(viii).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                           pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Moredun research Institute
                      Matthews, Jacqueline
                      Nisbet, Alasdair J
                      Knox, David J
              <120>   Sheep Nematode Vaccine
<removed-apn>
              <130>   PG443191WO
              <160>   8
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.3
              <210>   1
              <211>   162
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>   1
              Met Phe Cys Arg Val Thr Val Ala Val Leu Leu Leu Ala Val Ser Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Ala Gly Phe Phe Asp Asp Val Ser Gly Leu Ala Ser Asp Val Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Phe Phe Thr Lys Gln Phe Asn Asn Val Lys Asp Leu Phe Ala Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Gln Ser Glu Leu Glu Lys Asn Ile Gln Arg Val Lys Asp Leu Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Met Ala Ile Lys Glu Lys Ala Lys Met Leu Glu Pro Met Ala Asn Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Gln Lys Lys Thr Ile Ser Glu Val Asn Asn Tyr Met Gln Gln Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Ala Phe Gly Ala Gln Val Lys Arg Asp Gly Glu Ala Lys Phe Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gln Asn Lys Ala Lys Trp Gln Asp Met Leu Asn Asn Ile Phe Glu Lys
                      115                 120                 125
                                                   Page 1

                                            pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Leu Glu Asn Val Met Lys Leu Met Asn Leu Lys Ser Ala Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Gln Cys Thr Val Met Ala Ala Leu Ile Ala Pro Val Ile Leu Ala Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Thr Arg
              <210>     2
              <211>     115
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>     2
              Met Pro Val Phe Ser Phe His Thr Asn Val Ser Ala Asp Lys Val Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Asp Leu Leu Lys Gln Ile Ser Ser Val Val Ala Arg Ile Leu His
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Pro Glu Ser Tyr Val Cys Val His Val Val Pro Asp Gln Gln Met
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Phe Asp Gly Thr Asp Gly Pro Cys Gly Val Gly Val Leu Lys Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Gly Gly Val Gly Gly Ser Lys Asn Asn Glu His Ala Lys Ala Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Phe Ala Leu Ile Lys Asp His Leu Gly Ile Ala Gly Asn Arg Met Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Glu Phe Ile Asp Ile Gly Ala Ala Asp Ile Ala Phe Asn Ser Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Phe Ala
                      115
                                                     Page 2

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   3
              <211>   236
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>   3
              Met Phe Thr Pro Ile Gly Ile Ala Val Leu Tyr Leu Ala Leu Val Thr
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro His Ala Lys Ala Gly Phe Cys Cys Pro Ala Asp Leu Asp Gln Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Glu Ala Arg Lys Ile Leu Leu Asn Phe His Asn Glu Val Arg Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Pro Leu Leu Asn Leu Thr Gly Ala Val Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Met Arg Asn Val Leu Gly Pro Ala Lys Asn Met Tyr Lys Met Asp Trp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Cys Asn Leu Glu Lys Lys Ala Leu Glu Met Ile Ser Pro Cys Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Pro Leu Pro Ile Asp Thr Ser Ile Pro Gln Asn Leu Ala Gln Trp
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Leu Tyr Arg Lys Met Glu Glu Thr Glu Val Leu Glu Lys Ala Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Trp Ser Trp Val Ile Ala Ser Leu Arg Asn Leu Lys Asn Asp Thr Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Asp Leu Tyr Asn Trp Lys Ile Arg Thr Ile Ser Asn Ile Leu Asn
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Trp Arg Asn Thr Lys Val Gly Cys Ala His Lys Val Cys Gln Phe Pro
                              165                 170                 175
                                                   Page 3

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Gly Thr Asn Met Val Ile Ser Cys Ala Tyr Gly Gly Asp Lys Leu
                          180                 185                  190
              Glu Asn Asn Glu Val Val Trp Gln Lys Gly Pro Thr Cys Glu Cys Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Ala Tyr Pro Asp Ser Tyr Cys Cys Asn Asn Leu Cys Asp Thr Lys Ala
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Ala Ala Leu Arg Glu Glu Pro Cys Lys Ser Asn
              225                 230                 235
              <210>   4
              <211>   305
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>   4
              Met Arg Leu Leu Asn Ser Met Gly Met Gln Glu Pro Pro Asn Val Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Ile Asp Leu Ser Pro Ser Thr Ile Glu Glu Met Leu Glu Ser Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Glu Asn Asp Lys Leu Glu Gln Asp Gln Glu Glu Lys Thr Phe Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Ala Val Asp Pro Ser Asp Gly Ile Asp Pro Asp Met Leu Val Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Phe Pro Val Ser Ile Thr Thr Met Val Arg Lys Val Ser Arg Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Leu His Val Tyr Leu His Val Ser Glu Pro Leu Pro Glu Pro Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Val Thr Val Val Val Arg Glu Arg Leu Leu Asn Gly Asp Val Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Ile Val Ala Thr Asn Pro Val Glu Ile Gln Arg Ser Gly Lys Ala
                                                  Page 4

                                         pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
                          115            120                 125
              Val Leu Pro Leu Arg Ala Ser Asp Val Glu Arg Trp Trp Lys Ser Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Pro Ile Leu Gly Leu Tyr Val Val Ala Met Leu Asn Gly Glu Asn Ile
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Ala Val His Pro Gln Gln Asp His His Ala Arg His Thr Met Phe Met
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Val Ile Leu Ala Ser Asp Ala Lys Ser Arg Gly Lys Arg Ser Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Val Cys Met Pro Glu Asp Gln Glu Pro Gly Cys Cys Leu Tyr Asp
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Ile Val Asp Phe Gln Gln Ile Gly Trp Lys Phe Ile Ile Ala Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              His Lys Tyr Asn Ala Tyr Met Cys Arg Gly Asp Cys Ser Val Asn His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr His Val Thr Arg Ser Gly His Thr Lys Val Ala Lys Thr Gly Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Thr Arg Gln Asp Ala Thr Gly Asn Gln Gly Met Cys Cys His Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Glu Tyr Asp Ala Val Arg Met Ile Tyr Met Asn Gly Asp Asn Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Thr Met Ala Arg Val Pro Gly Met Ile Ala Arg Lys Cys Thr Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Ser
              305
              <210>   5
                                                  Page 5

                                           pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   364
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>   5
              Met Ser Leu Leu Phe Leu Leu Leu Ile Pro His Leu Phe Ala Ala Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Val Lys Gln Gln Tyr Ser Gly Gly Val Lys Pro Leu Thr Glu Leu Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Asp Leu Ile Asp Lys Lys Thr Lys Gly Ser Ile Glu Phe Ala Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Gly Gln His Ile Ser Pro Lys Asp Phe Gly Ala Trp Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Ser Phe Ile Glu Arg His Asp Lys Val Tyr Arg Asn Glu Ser Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Leu Lys Arg Phe Gly Ile Phe Lys Arg Asn Leu Glu Ile Ile Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Ala Gln Glu Asn Asp Lys Gly Thr Ala Ile Tyr Gly Ile Asn Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Ala Asp Leu Ser Pro Glu Glu Phe Lys Lys Thr His Leu Pro His
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Trp Lys Gln Pro Asp His Pro Asn Arg Ile Val Asp Leu Ala Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Gly Val Asp Pro Lys Glu Pro Leu Pro Glu Ser Phe Asp Trp Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu His Gly Ala Val Thr Lys Val Lys Thr Glu Gly His Cys Ala Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Trp Ala Phe Ser Val Thr Gly Asn Ile Glu Gly Gln Trp Phe Leu
                          180                 185                 190
                                                   Page 6

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Ala Lys Lys Lys Leu Val Ser Leu Ser Ala Gln Gln Leu Leu Asp Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Asp Val Val Asp Glu Gly Cys Asn Gly Gly Phe Pro Leu Asp Ala Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Lys Glu Ile Val Arg Met Gly Gly Leu Glu Pro Glu Asp Lys Tyr Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Glu Ala Lys Ala Glu Gln Cys Arg Leu Val Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Tyr Ile Asn Gly Ser Val Glu Leu Pro His Asp Glu Glu Lys Met
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Ala Trp Leu Val Lys Lys Gly Pro Ile Ser Ile Gly Ile Thr Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Asp Asp Ile Gln Phe Tyr Lys Gly Gly Val Ser Arg Pro Thr Thr Cys
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Leu Ser Ser Met Ile His Gly Ala Leu Leu Val Gly Tyr Gly Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Glu Lys Asn Ile Pro Tyr Trp Ile Ile Lys Asn Ser Trp Gly Pro Asn
                              325                 330                 335
              Trp Gly Glu Asp Gly Tyr Tyr Arg Met Val Arg Gly Glu Asn Ala Cys
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg Ile Asn Arg Phe Pro Thr Ser Ala Val Val Leu
                      355                 360
              <210>   6
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>   6
                                                   Page 7

                                         pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Met Leu Leu Tyr Ile Leu Ser Leu Val Leu Leu Ile Asp Ala Leu Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Gly Tyr Pro Asp Gly Lys Glu His Gly Ser Arg Pro Thr Ile Arg
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Pro Asp Gly Ser Thr Glu Tyr Lys Leu Leu Ile Val Thr Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Met Asp Lys Asp Ser Lys Ala Gly Glu Trp Thr Trp Arg Ala Val Thr
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Glu Gly Arg Leu Thr Leu Ser Pro Asp Met Ala His Val Ser Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Trp Asp Glu Asn Ser Glu Arg Asn Leu Thr Ser Ser Met Asn Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Gly Arg Ala Met Glu Leu Ser Asp Leu Ser Val Phe His Asn Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Ile Leu Thr Pro Asp Asp Arg Thr Gly Leu Ile Ser Glu Ile Lys Asn
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Lys Met Ile Pro Trp Val Phe Leu Asn Ser Gly Pro Gly Asn Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Thr Ser Pro Phe Lys Cys Glu Trp Met Thr Ile Lys Asp Asp Val Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Val Gly Gly His Gly Asn Glu Phe Arg Asn Lys Gln Gly Glu Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Val His Arg Asn Asn Leu Trp Ile Lys Thr Val Thr Pro Glu Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Thr Asn Val Asp Trp Thr Asp Val Phe Asn Asn Leu Arg Asn Ala
                      195                 200                 205
                                                  Page 8

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Val Gly Ile Ser Glu Pro Gly Tyr Leu Thr His Glu Ala Val Gln Trp
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Glu Lys Gln Gly His Trp Tyr Phe Leu Pro Arg Lys Glu Ser Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
<removed-apn>
              Thr Val Tyr Val Glu Glu Asp Asp Glu Lys Lys Gly Thr Asp Leu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Ile Gly Asn Pro Asp Leu Asp Gln Phe Glu Thr Lys Arg Ile Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Val Leu Arg Pro Glu Arg Gly Tyr Ser Ala Phe Asp Phe Ile Pro Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Asp Asp Lys Ile Ile Val Ala Leu Lys Ser Lys Glu Val Thr Asp
                  290                 295                 300
              Glu Pro Thr Glu Thr Tyr Val Thr Val Phe Thr Ile Asp Gly Glu Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Leu Asp Asp Gln Lys Leu Asp Gly Asn Tyr Lys Phe Glu Gly Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Phe Ile
              <210>   7
              <211>   498
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>   7
              Met Arg Leu Ala Val Leu Leu Leu Val Leu Val Val Ser Ala Gln Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Leu Leu Asp Lys Val Lys Asp Phe Phe Lys Gly Gly Asn Phe Gly
                          20                  25                  30
                                                   Page 9

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Glu Lys Thr Lys Thr Ala Thr Leu Ser Lys Phe Lys Lys Leu Phe Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Thr Gly Ile Leu Ser Leu Gly Asn Lys Leu Ala Glu Met Arg Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Val Met Lys Lys Leu Glu Leu Ser Lys Ala Lys Lys Ala Glu Val
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Arg Lys Leu Lys Glu Val Glu Glu Arg Met Asp Asn Thr Val Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Leu Lys Asp Thr Ile Phe Glu Ile Asn Ala Val Lys Asn Val Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Ser Leu Phe Gln Ser Asp Ile Leu Leu Thr Lys Arg Gln Val Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Val Met Asp Gly Val Glu Gly Gly Arg Pro Lys Arg Gln Ala Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asp Gln Asn Tyr Pro Asn Thr Thr Trp Gln Gln Gly Val Phe Tyr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Phe Asp Asp Ser Ala Asp Tyr Tyr Thr Arg Lys Val Phe Glu Met
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Thr Lys Gln Trp Glu Glu Ala Thr Cys Ile Asp Phe Lys Glu Asp
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Glu Lys Lys Ala Glu Asn Ser Ile Ile Leu Ile Lys Glu Asp Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Cys Trp Ser Tyr Val Gly Gln Val Gly Gly Glu Gln Pro Leu Ser Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Asp Gly Cys Glu Gln Val Gly Ile Ala Thr His Glu Leu Gly His
              225                 230                 235                 240
                                                  Page 10

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Ala Leu Gly Leu Phe His Thr Met Ser Arg Tyr Asp Arg Asp Asp Phe
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Thr Val Val Leu Glu Asn Val Val Glu Gly Phe Val Asp Gln Tyr
                          260                 265                 270
              Ile Lys Glu Thr Pro Gln Thr Thr Thr Asn Tyr Gly Phe Thr Tyr Asp
<removed-apn>
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Gly Ser Ile Met His Tyr Gly Ala Ser Ser Ala Ser His Asn Asn
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Pro Thr Met Val Ala Asn Asp Thr Arg Tyr Gln Glu Ser Met Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Gln Ile Ile Ser Phe Ile Asp Lys Ser Met Ile Asn Asp His Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
              Asn Cys Lys Ala Asp Cys Pro Lys Ala Thr Ser Ala Lys Cys Gln Asn
                          340                 345                 350
              Gly Gly Phe Pro His Pro Arg Lys Cys Ser Glu Cys Ile Cys Pro Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Tyr Gly Gly Ala Leu Cys Asp Gln Arg Pro Thr Gly Cys Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Leu Lys Ala Lys Glu Ser Lys Gln Phe Leu Ile Asp Lys Leu Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Phe Pro Ser Gly Val Arg Asp Glu Phe Thr Phe Cys Asn His Trp Ile
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Ala Pro Glu Gly Lys Lys Ile Glu Leu Lys Ile Asn Ser Ile Ser
                          420                 425                 430
              His Gly Tyr Ala His Asp Gly Cys Ile Leu Gly Gly Val Glu Ile Lys
                      435                 440                 445
                                                  Page 11

                                          pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Ser Glu Asp Gln Thr Arg Thr Gly Phe Arg Phe Cys Ser Pro Asn
                  450                 455                 460
              Asp Arg Asn Thr Val Leu Val Ser Ala Ser Asn Arg Val Pro Ile Ile
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Thr Phe Asn Arg Ser Gly Gln Gln Gln Ile Ile Leu Glu Tyr Lys Val
<removed-apn>
                              485                 490                 495
              Val Ser
              <210>     8
              <211>     160
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Teladorsagia circumcincta
              <400>     8
              Met Leu Arg Ser Ile Leu Leu Ile Leu Val Ser Ala Ser Val Tyr Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Val Gln Gly Gln Gly Asn Gly Asp Met Lys Lys Val Glu Leu Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Met Gly Tyr Ala Lys Lys Asp Met Glu Lys Val Arg Glu Phe Leu Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Lys Asp Glu Arg Leu Thr Lys Leu Leu Ser Asp Leu Phe Arg Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Asp Lys Thr Thr Phe Glu Trp Met Lys Asp Glu Ala Thr Leu Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Phe Ile Gln Thr Arg Gly Lys Phe Ser Ser Ala Leu Val His Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Val Gln Lys Arg Tyr Lys Asp Asn Arg Lys Leu Trp Ala Phe Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Ala Arg Leu Met Asn Cys Ile Gly Gly Ser Asp Met Gly Arg Ala
                                                    Page 12

                                         pctgb2013050247<U+2701>seql.txt
<removed-date>
                      115                120                 125
              Thr Ala Tyr Leu Pro Gly Val Ser Val Gln Glu Lys Glu Glu Thr Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Tyr Ser Leu Lys Leu Glu Arg Thr Cys Ala Tyr Thr Tyr Phe Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
                                                  Page 13

