                                             ABSTRACT
        The utility model relates to a bone type lumbar pillow, comprising a body, wherein the
   body is a regular triangular prism arranged horizontally, each edge of which is in a concave
   arc shape and which is convenient to fit with the waist of a human body; planes of the
 5 various edges in the arc shape intersect on a central axis of the body; the body comprises a
   surface layer and a filler; the surface layer is made of a waterproof fabric; and the filler is a
   soft material, so that the body has elasticity. The utility model has the advantages of
   reasonable design, simple structure and convenience in use, which may be placed at the
   waist, not only having a good supporting function, but also fitting with the waist well and
10 making a user feel more comfortable. At the same time, a surface is waterproof and may be
   cleaned in a wet cloth scrubbing manner, which is beneficial to long-term use.

I  4
 I          t
        1      5.
      1       #4
     FIG. 1

                             BONE TYPE LUMBAR PILLOW
   Technical Field
        The utility model relates to an article for daily use, in particular to a pillow suitable for
   waist care, and more particular to a bone type lumbar pillow.
 5 Related Art
        For those having discomfort in waist, the discomfort may be relieved by placing a
   pillow at the waist. However, ordinary pillows are too soft to bring about an apparent
   supporting effect; or they are too hard to fit with the waist, so that they make a person feel
   uncomfortable. Therefore, it is necessary to design a pillow that may not only effectively
10 support the waist but also fit well with the waist. and fully satisfies the market demand.
                                             SUMMARY
        The object of the utility model is to provide a bone type lumbar pillow for overcoming
   the deficiency of the current pillow for waist improvement, which not only has a good
   supporting function, but also may fit with a user's waist, and the user feels more
15 comfortable.
        The technical solution of the utility model is as follows:
        A bone type lumbar pillow comprises a body, wherein the body is a regular triangular
   prism arranged horizontally, each edge of which is in a concave arc shape and which is
   convenient to fit with the waist of a human body; planes of the various edges in the arc
20 shape intersect on a central axis of the body; the body comprises a surface layer and a filler;
   the surface layer is made of a waterproof fabric; and the filler is a soft material, so that the
   body has elasticity.
        Further, an arc angle of the edge is 120-150'; and a diameter of an arc corresponds to a
   length of the body.
25      Further, the surface layer is made by adhering a PU (polyurethane) composite film to a
   polyester knitted fabric through a PUR (polyurethane) adhesive, and has a waterproof
   function.
                                                   1

         Further, the filler is silicon-containing chemical fiber.
         The utility model has the beneficial effects as follows:
         the utility model is of reasonable design, and is simple in structure and convenient to
   use, which may be placed at the waist, not only having a good supporting function, but also
 5 fitting with the waist well and making a user feel more comfortable. At the same time, a
   surface is waterproof and may be cleaned in a wet cloth scrubbing manner, which is
   beneficial to long-term use.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Fig. 1 is a schematic view of the utility model.
10                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         The utility model is further described with reference to the drawings and the
   embodiment below.
         As shown in Fig.1,
         a bone type lumbar pillow comprises a body, wherein the body is a regular triangular
15 prism arranged horizontally, each edge of which is a concave arc shape so that the body is
   in a bone-like shape to facilitate fitting with the waist of a human body; planes of the
   various edges in the arc shape intersect on a central axis of the body, so that the body is in a
   regular shape and adapted to be placed freely; the body comprises a surface layer and a
   filler; the surface layer is made of a waterproof fabric; and the filler is a soft material, so
20 that the body has elasticity to fit with the waist of the human body.
         An arc angle of the edge is 120-150'; and a diameter of an arc corresponds to a length
   of the body, so as to be adapted to the waist shape of the human body.
         The surface layer is made by adhering a PU composite film to a polyester knitted fabric
   through a PUR adhesive, and has a good waterproof function to facilitate cleaning in a
25 scrubbing manner.
         The filler is silicon-containing chemical fiber, which is soft and comfortable.
                                                     2

       The utility model has a uniform shape, does not need direction adjustment, and is very
  convenient to use. Moreover, it may fit with a user's waist well, and the user feels
  comfortable while being supported.
       The parts not involved in the utility model are all the same as the prior art or may be
5 realized by the prior art.
                                               3

                                              CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
         1. A bone type lumbar pillow, comprising a body, and characterized in that the body is
   a regular triangular prism arranged horizontally, each edge of which is in a concave arc
 5 shape and which is convenient to fit with the waist of a human body; planes of the various
   edges in the arc shape intersect on a central axis of the body; the body comprises a surface
   layer and a filler; the surface layer is made of a waterproof fabric; and the filler is a soft
   material, so that the body has elasticity.
         2. The bone type lumbar pillow according to claim 1, wherein an arc angle of the edge
10 is 120-150'; and a diameter of an arc corresponds to a length of the body.
         3. The bone type lumbar pillow according to claim 1, wherein the surface layer is
   made by adhering a PU composite film to a polyester knitted fabric through a PUR
   adhesive, and has a waterproof function.
         4. The bone type lumbar pillow according to claim 1, wherein the filler is
15 silicon-containing chemical fiber.
                                                 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 1

