                                         ABSTRACT
        [00212]       The invention provides seed and plants of corn hybrid SVSD7749 and the
parent lines thereof. The invention thus relates to the plants, seeds, and tissue cultures of corn
hybrid SVSD7749 and the parent lines thereof, and to methods for producing a corn plant
produced by crossing such plants with themselves or with another corn plant, such as a plant of
another genotype. The invention further relates to seeds and plants produced by such crossing.
The invention further relates to parts of such plants, including the fruit and gametes of such
plants.
                                              - 52 -

    WO 2016/077808                                                                PCT/US2015/060759
     COMPOSITIONS, DEVICES, AND METHODS OF IBS SENSITIVITY TESTING
[0001] This application claims priority to our U.S. provisional patent application with the serial
number 62/079783 filed November 14, 2014 which is incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety.
Field of the Invention
[0002] The field of the invention is sensitivity testing for food intolerance, and especially as it
relates to testing and possible elimination of selected food items as trigger foods for patients
diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome.
Background
[0003] The background description includes information that may be useful in understanding the
present invention. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is prior art
or relevant to the presently claimed invention, or that any publication specifically or implicitly
referenced is prior art.
[0004] Food sensitivity, especially as it relates to irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), often presents
with chronic abdominal pain, discomfort, bloating, and/or change in bowel habits and is not well
understood in the medical community. Most typically, IBS is diagnosed by elimination of other
pathological conditions (e.g., bacterial or protozoan infection, lactose intolerance, etc.) that may
have similar or overlapping symptoms. However, IBS is often quite diverse with respect to
dietary items triggering symptoms, and no standardized test to help identify trigger food items
with a reasonable degree of certainty is known, leaving such patients often to trial-and-error.
 [0005] While there are some commercially available tests and labs to help identify trigger foods,
the quality of the test results from these labs is generally poor as is reported by a consumer
 advocacy group (e.g., http://www.which.co.uk/news/2008/08/food-allergy-tests-could-risk-your
 health-15471 1/). Most notably, problems associated with these tests and labs were high false
 positive rates, high false negative rates, high intra-patient variability, and inter-laboratory
 variability, rendering such tests nearly useless. Similarly, further inconclusive and highly
 variable test results were also reported elsewhere (Alternative Medicine Review, Vol. 9, No. 2,

     WO 2016/077808                                                               PCT/US2015/060759
2004: pp 198-207), and the authors concluded that this may be due to food reactions and food
sensitivities occurring via a number of different mechanisms. For example, not all lBS patients
show positive response to food A, and not all IBS patients show negative response to food B.
Thus, even if an LBS patient shows positive response to food A, removal of food A from the
patient's diet may not relieve the patient's LBS symptoms. In other words, it is not well
determined whether food samples used in the currently available tests are properly selected.based
on the high probabilities to correlate sensitivities to those food samples to IBS.
[0006] Many have made efforts to select food items or allergens to include in the test panel for
immunoassay tests. For example, US Patent Application No. 2007/0122840 to Cousins discloses
selection of 29 food allergens that are included in the test panel for ELISA assay. The 29 food
allergens are selected based on the frequency of IgG positivity in preliminary experiments with a
larger panel of food allergens. However, Cousins fails to teach any quantitative and/or statistical
analysis for the selected antigens and as such fails to provide any rationale for the selection.
Indeed, Cousin's method to select 29 food allergens for test panel has been criticized that the
selection is rather arbitrary. For example, Croft criticized in a paper titled "IgG food antibodies
and irritating the bowel", published in Gastroenterology, Vol. 128, Issue 4, p. 1135-1136, that
Cousin's method is not clear whether the quantity and range of food antibodies being measured
are similar or completely different to non-LBS patients or non-food intolerant patients because it
lacks controls (normal or non-IBS control subject). Thus, it is at best unclear if Cousins achieves
any improvement with respect to false positive and false negative results.
 [0007] For another example, US Patent Application No. 2011/0306898 to Stierstorfer discloses
 selection of 41 food substances as test materials on skin patches. The 41 food substances are
 selected based on chemical compounds included in the food substances (e.g., vanillin, cinnamic
 aldehyde, sorbic acid, etc.). The food substances are tested on LBS patients or LBS-suspected
 patients for allergic contact dermatitis. However, Stierstorfer also fails to disclose how the false
 positive or false negative food allergens are eliminated and whether the food allergens are
 selected based on the gender stratification among IgG positivity results.
 [0008] All publications identified herein are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if
 each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to
                                                    2

     WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
be incorporated by reference. Where a definition or use of a term in an incorporated reference is
inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein, the definition of that term
provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply.
[0009] Thus, even though various tests for food sensitivities are known in the art, all or almost
all of them suffer from one or more disadvantages. Therefore, there is still a need for improved
compositions, devices, and methods of food sensitivity testing, especially for identification and
possible elimination of trigger foods for patients identified with or suspected of having IBS.
Summary of The Invention
[0010] The inventive subject matter provides systems and methods for testing food intolerance in
patients diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome. One aspect of the
invention is a test kit with for testing food intolerance in patients diagnosed with or suspected to
have irritable bowel syndrome. The test kit includes a plurality of distinct food preparations
coupled to individually addressable respective solid carriers. The plurality of distinct.food
preparations have an average discriminatory p-value of < 0.07 as determined by raw p-value or
an average discriminatory p-value of S 0.10 as determined by FDR multiplicity adjusted p-value.
[0011] Another aspect of the invention includes a method of testing food intolerance in patients
diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome. The method includes a step of
contacting a food preparation with a bodily fluid of a patient that is diagnosed with or suspected
to have irritable bowel syndrome. The bodily fluid is associated with a gender identification. It is
especially preferred that the step of contacting is performed under conditions that allow IgG from
the bodily fluid to bind to at least one component of the food preparation. The method continues
with a step. of measuring IgG bound to the at least one component of the food preparation to
obtain a signal, and then comparing the signal to a gender-stratified reference value for the food
preparation using the gender identification to obtain a result. Then, the method also includes a
 step of updating or generating a report using the result.
 [0012] Another aspect of the invention includes a method of generating a test for food
 intolerance in patients diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome. The
 method includes a step of obtaining test results for a plurality of distinct food preparations. The
 test results are based on bodily fluids of patients diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable
                                                     3

     WO 2016/077808                                                            PCT/US2015/060759
bowel syndrome and bodily fluids of a control group not diagnosed with or not suspected to have
irritable bowel syndrome. The method also includes a step of stratifying the test results by gender
for each of the distinct food preparations. Then the method continues with a step of assigning for
a predetermined percentile rank a different cutoff value for male and female patients for each of
the distinct food preparations.
[0013] Still another aspect of the invention includes a use of a plurality of distinct food
preparations coupled to individually addressable respective solid carriers in a diagnosis of
irritable bowel syndrome. The plurality of distinct food preparations are selected based on their
average discriminatory p-value of < 0.07 as determined by raw p-value or an average
discriminatory p-value of 50.10 as determined by FDR multiplicity adjusted p-value.
[0014] Various objects, features, aspects and advantages of the inventive subject matter will
become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments, along
with the accompanying drawing figures in which like numerals represent like components.
Brief Description of The Drawings
[0015] Table 1 shows a list of food items from which food preparations can be prepared.
[0016] Table 2 shows statistical data of foods ranked according to 2-tailed FDR multiplicity
adjusted p-values.
[0017] Table 3 shows statistical data of ELISA score by food and gender.
[0018] Table 4 shows cutoff values of foods for a predetermined percentile rank.
[0019] Figure 1A illustrates ELISA signal score of male IBS patients and control tested with
white wheat.
 [0020] Figure 1B illustrates a distribution of percentage of male IBS subjects exceeding the  9 0 th
and   9 5th percentile tested with white wheat.
 [0021] Figure 1C illustrates a signal distribution in women along with the 95th percentile cutoff
as determined from the female control population tested with white wheat.
                                                  4

     WO 2016/077808                                                         PCT/US2015/060759
[0022] Figure 1D illustrates a distribution of percentage of female IBS subjects exceeding the
90th and 95th percentile tested with white wheat.
[0023] Figure 2A illustrates ELISA signal score of male IBS patients and control tested with
cocoa.
[0024] Figure 2B illustrates a distribution of percentage of male IBS subjects exceeding the 90th
and   95 th  percentile tested with cocoa.
[0025] Figure 2C illustrates a signal distribution in women along with the 95 h   percentile cutoff
as determined from the female control population tested with cocoa.
[0026] Figure 2D illustrates a distribution of percentage of female LBS subjects exceeding the
90th and     9 5 th percentile tested with cocoa.
[0027] Figure 3A illustrates ELISA signal score of male IBS patients and control tested with
rye.
[0028] Figure 3B illustrates a distribution of percentage of male LBS subjects exceeding the 90th
and   9 5 th percentile tested with rye.
[0029] Figure 3C illustrates a signal distribution in women along with the 9 5 th percentile cutoff
as determined from the female control population tested with rye.
[0030] Figure 3D illustrates a distribution of percentage of female LBS subjects exceeding the
90 th and    9 5 th percentile tested with rye.
[0031] Figure 4A illustrates ELISA signal score of male IBS patients and control tested with
black tea.
[0032] Figure 4B'illustrates a distribution of percentage of male LBS subjects exceeding the    9 0 th
and   9 5 th percentile tested with black tea.
[0033] Figure 4C illustrates a signal distribution in women along with the 9 5 th percentile cutoff
as determined from the female control population tested with black tea.
                                                  5

     WO 2016/077808                                                          PCT/US2015/060759
[00341 Figure 4D illustrates a distribution of percentage of female IBS subjects exceeding the
90th and    95 th percentile tested with black tea.
[0035] Figures 5A-5B illustrate distributions of IBS subjects by number of foods that were
identified as trigger foods at the 90th percentile and 95th percentile.
[0036] Table 5 shows raw data of IBS patients and control with number of positive results based
on the  9 0 th percentile.
[0037] Table 6 shows statistical data summarizing the raw data of IBS patient populations
shown in Table 5.
[0038] Table 7 shows statistical data summarizing the raw data of control populations shown in
Table 5.
[0039] Table 8 shows statistical data summarizing the raw data of IIBS patient populations
shown in Table 5 transformed by logarithmic transformation.
 [0040] Table 9 shows statistical data summarizing the raw data of control populations shown in
Table 5 transformed by logarithmic transformation.
 [0041] Table 10 shows statistical data of an independent T-test to compare the geometric mean
 number of positive foods between the IBS and non- IBS samples.
 [0042] Table 11 shows statistical data of a Mann-Whitney test to compare the geometric mean
 number of positive foods between the LBS and non- IBS samples.
 [0043] Figure 6A illustrates a box and whisker plot of data shown in Table 5.
 [0044] Figure 6B illustrates a notched box and whisker plot of data shown in Table 5.
 [0045] Figure 7 illustrates the ROC curve corresponding to the statistical data shown in Table
 12.
 [0046] Table 12 shows statistical data of a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve
 analysis of data shown in Tables 5-11.
                                                    6

    WO 2016/077808                                                             PCT/US2015/060759
[0047] Table 13 shows statistical data of performance metrics in predicting IBS status among
female patients from number of positive foods.
[0048] Table 14 shows statistical data of performance metrics in predicting IBS status among
male patients from number of positive foods.
Detailed Description
[0049] The inventors have discovered that food preparations used in food tests to identify trigger
foods in patients diagnosed with or suspected to have IBS are not equally well predictive and/or
associated with IBS/IBS symptoms. Indeed, various experiments have revealed that among a
wide variety of food items certain food items are highly predictive/associated with IBS whereas
others have no statistically significant association with IBS.
[0050] Even more unexpectedly, the inventors discovered that in addition to the high variability
of food items, gender variability with respect to response in a test plays a substantial role in the
determination of association or a food item with IBS. Consequently, based on the inventors'
findings and further contemplations, test kits and methods are now presented with substantially
higher predictive power in the choice of food items that could be eliminated for reduction of IBS
signs and symptoms.
[0051] The following discussion provides many example embodiments of the inventive subject
matter. Although each embodiment represents a single combination of inventive elements, the
inventive subject matter is considered to include all possible combinations of the disclosed
elements. Thus if one embodiment comprises elements A, B, and C, and a second embodiment
comprises elements B and D, then the inventive subject matter is also considered to include other
remaining combinations of A, B, C, or D, even if not explicitly disclosed.
[0052] In some embodiments, the numbers expressing quantities or ranges, used to describe and
claim certain embodiments of the invention are to be understood as being modified in some
instances by the term "about." Accordingly, in some embodiments, the numerical parameters set
forth in the written description and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending
upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by a particular embodiment. In some
embodiments, the numerical parameters should be construed in light of the number of reported
                                                   7

     WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding that the
numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of some embodiments of the
invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported
as precisely as practicable. The numerical values presented in some embodiments of the
invention may contain certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in
their respective testing measurements. Unless the context dictates the contrary, all ranges set
forth herein should be interpreted as being inclusive of their endpoints and open-ended ranges
should be interpreted to include only commercially practical values. Similarly, all lists of values
should be considered as inclusive of intermediate values unless the context indicates the
contrary.
[0053] As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of
",a," "an," and "the" includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also,
as used in the description herein, the meaning of "in" includes "in" and "on" unless the context
clearly dictates otherwise.
[0054] All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise
indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples,
or exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided with respect to certain embodiments herein is
intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of
the invention otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as
indicating any non-claimed element essential to the practice of the invention.
 [0055] Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are
not to be construed as limitations. Each group member can be referred to and claimed
individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other elements found
herein. One or more members of a group can be included in, or deleted from, a group for reasons
of convenience and/or patentability. When any such inclusion or deletion occurs, the
 specification is herein deemed to contain the group as modified thus fulfilling the written
description of all Markush groups used in the appended claims.
 [0056] In one especially preferred aspect, the inventors therefore contemplate a test kit or test
 panel that is suitable for testing food intolerance in patients where the patient is diagnosed with
                                                    8

     WO 2016/077808                                                             PCT/US2015/060759
or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome. Most preferably, such test kit or panel will
include a plurality of distinct food preparations (e.g., raw or processed extract, preferably
aqueous extract with optional co-solvent, which may or may not be filtered) that are coupled to
individually addressable respective solid carriers (e.g., in a form of an array or a micro well
plate), wherein the distinct food preparations have an average discriminatory p-value of < 0.07 as
determined by raw p-value or an average discriminatory p-value of < 0.10 as determined by FDR
multiplicity adjusted p-value. As used herein, processed extracts includes food extracts made of
food items that are mechanically or chemically modified (e.g., minced, heated, boiled,
fermented, smoked, etc.).
[0057] In some embodiments, the numbers expressing quantities of ingredients, properties such
as concentration, reaction conditions, and so forth, used to describe and claim certain
embodiments of the invention are to be understood as being modified in some instances by the
term "about." Accordingly, in some embodiments, the numerical parameters set forth in the
written description and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the
desired properties sought to be obtained by a particular embodiment. In some embodiments, the
numerical parameters should be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits
and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and
parameters setting forth the broad scope of some embodiments of the invention are
 approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely
 as practicable. The numerical values presented in some embodiments of the invention may
 contain certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective
 testing measurements. Moreover, and unless the context dictates the contrary, all ranges set forth
 herein should be interpreted as being inclusive of their endpoints and open-ended ranges should
 be interpreted to include only commercially practical values. Similarly, all lists of values should
 be considered as inclusive of intermediate values unless the context indicates the contrary.
 [0058] While not limiting to the inventive subject matter, food preparations will typically be
 drawn from foods generally known or suspected to trigger signs or symptoms of IBS.
 Particularly suitable food preparations may be identified by the experimental procedures outlined
 below. Thus, it should be appreciated that the food items need not be limited to the items
 described herein, but that all items are contemplated that can be identified by the methods
                                                   9

    WO 2016/077808                                                                PCT/US2015/060759
presented herein. Therefore, exemplary food preparations include at least two, at least four, at
least eight, or at least 12 food preparations prepared from cocoa, tea (e.g. green, black, etc.), oat,
cabbage, cow milk, onion (e.g. yellow, white, maui, etc.), honey, rye, corn, yeast, wheat (e.g.
red, white, etc.), soybean, egg, tuna, lemon, pineapple, cucumber, orange, halibut, walnut,
grapefruit, cane sugar, chicken, blueberry, or shrimp (e.g. US Gulf white, Thai, Tiger, etc.).
Additionally contemplated food preparations are prepared from Crab (e.g. Dungeness, Blue,
Alaskan King, etc.), Barley, Strawberry, Pork, Rice (e.g. Brown, White, etc.), Beef, Cashew,
Codfish, Potato, White Sesame, Broccoli, Almond, Turkey, Scallop, and/or Salmon. Still further
especially contemplated food items and food additives from which food preparations can be
prepared are listed in Table 1.
[0059] Using bodily fluids from patients diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel
syndrome and healthy control group individuals (i.e., those not diagnosed with or not suspected
to have irritable bowel syndrome), numerous additional food items may be identified.
Preferably, such identified food items will have high discriminatory power and as such have a p
value of < 0.15, more preferably < 0.10, and most preferably ! 0.05 as determined by raw p
value, and/or a p-value of < 0. 10, more preferably 5 0.08, and most preferably < 0.07 as
determined by False Discovery Rate (FDR) multiplicity adjusted p-value.
[0060] Therefore, where a panel has multiple food preparations, it is contemplated that the
plurality of distinct food preparations has an average discriminatory p-value of < 0.05 as
determined by raw p-value or an average discriminatory p-value of 50.08 as determined by FDR
multiplicity adjusted p-value, or even more preferably an average discriminatory p-value of <
0.025 as determined by raw p-value or an average discriminatory p-value of 5 0.07 as
determined by FDR multiplicity adjusted p-value. In further preferred aspects, it should be
appreciated that the FDR multiplicity adjusted p-value may be adjusted for at least one of age
and gender, and most preferably adjusted for both age and gender. On the other hand, where a
test kit or panel is stratified for use with a single gender, it is also contemplated that in a test kit
or panel at least 50% (and more typically 70% or all) of the plurality of distinct food
preparations, when adjusted for a single gender, have an average discriminatory p-value of <
0.07 as determined by raw p-value or an average discriminatory p-value of 5 0.10 as determined
by FDR multiplicity adjusted p-value. Furthermore, it should be appreciated that other
                                                     10

    WO 2016/077808                                                                PCT/US2015/060759
stratifications (e.g., dietary preference, ethnicity, place of residence, genetic predisposition or
family history, etc.) are also contemplated, and the PHOSITA will be readily appraised of the
appropriate choice of stratification.
[0061] The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand
method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range. Unless.
otherwise indicated herein, each individual value is incorporated into the specification as if it
were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable
order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of
any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g. "such as") provided with respect to certain
embodiments herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a
limitation on the scope of the invention otherwise claimed. No language in the specification
should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element essential to the practice of the
invention.
[0062] Of course, it should be noted that the particular format of the test kit or panel may vary
considerably and contemplated formats include micro well plates, a microfluidic device, dip
sticks, membrane-bound arrays, etc. Consequently, the solid carrier to which the food
preparations are coupled may include wells of a multiwall plate, a microfluidic device, a (e.g.,
color-coded or magnetic) bead, or an adsorptive film (e.g., nitrocellulose or micro/nanoporous
polymeric film), a chemical sensor, or an electrical sensor, (e.g. a printed copper sensor or
microchip). In some embodiments, it is also contemplated that a suitable solid carrier for
molecular absorption and signal detection by a light detector (e.g., surface plasmon resonance,
etc.) can be used.
 [0063] Consequently, the inventors also contemplate a method of testing food-intolerance in
patients that are diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome. Most typically,
 such methods will include a step of contacting a food preparation with a bodily fluid (e.g., whole
blood, plasma, serum, saliva, or a fecal suspension) of a patient that is diagnosed with or
 suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome, and wherein the bodily fluid is associated with a
 gender identification. As noted before, the step of contacting is preferably performed under
 conditions that allow IgG (or IgE or IgA or IgM) from the bodily fluid to bind to at least one
                                                     11

    WO 2016/077808                                                               PCT/US2015/060759
component of the food preparation, and the IgG bound to the component(s) of the food
preparation are then quantified/measured to obtain a signal. Most preferably, the signal is then
compared against a gender-stratified reference value (e.g., at least a 90th percentile value) for the
food preparation using the gender identification to obtain a result, which is then used to update or
generate a report. Preferably, the report can be generated as an aggregate result of individual
assay results.
[0064] Most commonly, such methods will not be limited to a single food preparation, but will
employ multiple different food preparations. As noted before, suitable food preparations can be
identified using various methods as described below, however, especially preferred food
preparations include cocoa, tea (e.g. green, black, etc.), oat, cabbage, cow milk, onion (e.g.
yellow, white, maui, etc.), honey, rye, corn, yeast, wheat (e.g. red, white, etc.), soybean, egg,
tuna, lemon, pineapple, cucumber, orange, halibut, walnut, grapefruit, cane sugar, chicken,
blueberry, or shrimp (e.g. US Gulf white, Thai, Tiger, etc.). Additionally contemplated food
preparations are prepared from Crab (e.g. Dungeness, Blue, Alaskan King, etc.), Barley,
Strawberry, Pork, Rice (e.g. Brown, White, etc.), Beef, Cashew, Codfish, Potato, White Sesame,
Broccoli, Almond, Turkey, Scallop, and/or Salmon, and/or items of Table 1. As also noted
above, it is generally preferred that at least some, or all of the different food preparations have an
average discriminatory p-value of S 0.07 (or       0.05, or ! 0.025) as determined by raw p-value,
and/or or an average discriminatory p-value of < 0.10 (or < 0.08, or S 0.07) as determined by
FDR multiplicity adjusted p-value.
[0065] While it is preferred that food preparations are prepared from a single food items as crude
extracts, or crude filtered extracts, it is contemplated that food preparations can be prepared from
mixtures of a plurality of food items (e.g. a mixture of citrus comprising lemon, orange and lime,
a mixture of crabs comprising blue crab, king crab and Dungeness crab, a mixture of wheat
comprising a white wheat and red wheat, a mixture of shrimp comprising US Gulf white, Thai
and Tiger shrimps, etc). In some embodiments, it is also contemplated that food preparations can
be prepared from purified food antigens or recombinant food antigens.
 [0066] As it is generally preferred that the food preparation is immobilized on a solid surface
 (typically in an addressable manner), it is contemplated that the step of measuring the IgG or
                                                    12

     WO 2016/077808                                                               PCT/US2015/060759
other type of antibody bound to the component of the food preparation is performed via an
immunoassay test (e.g., ELISA test, antibody capture enzyme immunoassay, other types of
antibody capture assays, etc.)
[00671 Viewed from a different perspective, the inventors also contemplate a method of
generating a test for food intolerance in patients diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable
bowel syndrome. Because the test is applied to patients already diagnosed with or suspected to
have irritable bowel syndrome, the authors do not contemplate that the method has a primary
diagnostic purpose for IBS. Instead, the method is for identifying triggering food items among
already diagnosed or suspected IBS patients. Such test will typically include a step of obtaining
one or more test results (e.g., ELISA, antibody capture enzyme immunoassay) for various
distinct food preparations, wherein the test results are based on bodily fluids (e.g., blood saliva,
fecal suspension) of patients diagnosed with or suspected to have irritable bowel syndrome and
bodily fluids of a control group not diagnosed with or not suspected to have irritable bowel
syndrome. Most preferably, the test results are then stratified by gender for each of the distinct
food preparations, a different cutoff value for male and female patients for each of the distinct
food preparations (e.g., cutoff value for male and female patients has a difference of at least 10%
(abs)) is assigned for a predetermined percentile rank (e.g;, 90th or 95th percentile).
 [0068] As noted earlier, and while not limiting to the inventive subject matter, it is contemplated
that the distinct food preparations include at least two (or six, or ten, or 15) food preparations
prepared from food items selected from the group consisting of cocoa, tea (e.g. green, black,
etc.), oat, cabbage, cow milk, onion (e.g. yellow, white, maui, etc.), honey, rye, corn, yeast,
 wheat (e.g. red, white, etc.), soybean, egg, tuna, lemon, pineapple, cucumber, orange, halibut,
 walnut, grapefruit, cane sugar, chicken, blueberry, or shrimp (e.g. US Gulf white, Thai, Tiger,
 etc.). Additionally contemplated food preparations are prepared from Crab (e.g. Dungeness,
 Blue, Alaskan King, etc.), Barley, Strawberry, Pork, Rice (e.g. Brown, White, etc.), Beef,
 Cashew, Codfish, Potato, White Sesame, Broccoli, Almond, Turkey, Scallop, and/or Salmon,
 and/or items of Table 1. On the other hand, where new food items are tested, it should be
 appreciated that the distinct food preparations include a food preparation prepared from a food
 items other than cocoa, tea (e.g. green, black, etc.), oat, cabbage, cow milk, onion (e.g. yellow,
 white, maui, etc.), honey, rye, corn, yeast, wheat (e.g. red, white, etc.), soybean, egg, tuna,
                                                   13

    WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
lemon, pineapple, cucumber, orange, halibut, walnut, grapefruit, cane sugar, chicken, blueberry,
or shrimp (e.g. US Gulf white, Thai, Tiger, etc.).. Regardless of the particular choice of food
items, it is generally preferred however, that the distinct food preparations have an average
discriminatory p-value of < 0.07 (or 5 0.05, or 5 0.025) as determined by raw p-value or an
average discriminatory p-value of < 0.10 (or 5 0.08, or < 0.07) as determined by FDR
multiplicity adjusted p-value. Exemplary aspects and protocols, and considerations are provided
in the experimental description below.
[0069] Thus, it should be appreciated that by having a high-confidence test system as described
herein, the rate of false-positive and false negatives can be significantly reduced, and especially
where the test systems and methods are gender stratified or adjusted for gender differences as
shown below. Such advantages have heretofore not been realized and it is expected that the
systems and methods presented herein will substantially increase the predictive power of food
sensitivity tests for patients diagnosed with or suspected to have IBS.
Experiments
[0070] General Protocol for food preparation generation: Commercially available food extracts
(available from Biomerica Inc., 17571 Von Karman Ave, Irvine, CA 92614) prepared from the
edible portion of the respective raw foods were used to prepare ELISA plates following the
manufacturer's instructions.
[0071] For some food extracts, the inventors found that food extracts -prepared with specific
procedures to generate food extracts provides more superior results in detecting elevated IgG
reactivity in IBS patients compared to commercially available food extracts. For example, for
grains and nuts, a three-step procedure of generating food extracts is preferred. The first step is a
defatting step. In this step, lipids from grains and nuts are extracted by contacting the flour of
grains and nuts with a non-polar solvent and collecting residue. Then, the defatted grain or nut
flour are extracted by contacting the flour with elevated pH to obtain a mixture and removing the
solid from the mixture to obtain the liquid extract. Once the liquid extract is generated, the liquid
extract is stabilized by adding an aqueous formulation. In a preferred embodiment, the aqueous
formulation includes a sugar alcohol, a metal chelating agent, protease inhibitor, mineral salt,
                                                   14

     WO 2016/077808                                                                PCT/US2015/060759
and buffer component 20-50 mM of buffer from 4-9 pH. This formulation allowed for long term
storage at -70 "C and multiple freeze-thaws without a loss of activity.
[0072] For another example, for meats and fish, a two step procedure of generating food extract
is preferred. The first step is an extraction step. In this step, extracts from raw, uncooked meats
or fish are generated by emulsifying the raw, uncooked meats or fish in an aqueous buffer
formulation in a high impact pressure processor. Then, solid materials are removed to obtain
liquid extract. Once the liquid extract is generated, the liquid extract is stabilized by adding an
aqueous formulation. In a preferred embodiment, the aqueous formulation includes a sugar
alcohol, a metal chelating agent, protease inhibitor, mineral salt, and buffer component 20-50
mM of buffer from 4-9 pH. This formulation allowed for long term storage at -70 *C and
multiple freeze-thaws without a loss of activity.
[0073] For still another example, for fruits and vegetables, a two step procedure of generating
food extract is preferred. The first step is an extraction step. In this step, liquid extracts from
fruits or vegetables are generated using an extractor (e.g., masticating juicer, etc) to pulverize
foods and extract juice. Then, solid materials are removed to obtain liquid extract. Once the
liquid extract is generated, the liquid extract is stabilized by adding an aqueous formulation. In a
preferred embodiment, the aqueous formulation includes a sugar alcohol, a metal chelating
 agent, protease inhibitor, mineral salt, and buffer component 20-50 mM of buffer from 4-9 pH.
This formulation allowed for long term storage at -70 'C and multiple freeze-thaws without a
 loss of activity.
 [0074] Blocking of ELISA plates: To optimize signal to noise, plates were blocked with a
 proprietary blocking buffer. In a preferred embodiment, the blocking buffer includes 20-50 mM
 of buffer from 4-9 pH, a protein of animal origin and a short chain alcohol. Other blocking
 buffers, including several commercial preparations, were attempted but could not provide
 adequate signal to noise and low assay variability required.
 [0075] ELISA preparation and sample testing: Food antigen preparations were immobilized onto
 respective microtiter wells following the manufacturer's instructions. For the assays, the food
 antigens were allowed to react with antibodies present in the patients' serum, and excess serum
 proteins were removed by a wash step. For detection of IgG antibody binding, enzyme labeled
                                                     15

       WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
  anti-IgG antibody conjugate was allowed to react with antigen-antibody complex. A color was
  developed by the addition of a substrate that reacts with the coupled enzyme. The color intensity
  was measured and is directly proportional to the concentration of IgG antibody specific to a
  particular food antigen.
  [0076] Methodology to determine ranked food list in order of ability of ELISA signals to
  distinguish IBS from control subjects: Out of an initial selection (e.g., 100 food items, or 150
  food items, or even more), samples can be eliminated prior to analysis due to low consumption in
  an intended population. In addition, specific food items can be used as being representative of
  the a larger more generic food group, especially where prior testing has established a correlation
  among different species within a generic group (most preferably in both genders, but also
  suitable for correlation for a single gender). For example, Thailand Shrimp could be dropped in
  favor of U.S. Gulf White Shrimp as representative of the "shrimp" food group, or King Crab
  could be dropped in favor of Dungeness Crab as representative of the "crab" food group In
  further preferred aspects, the final list foods is shorter than 50 food items, and more preferably
  equal-or less than of 40 food items.
  [0077] Since the foods ultimately selected for the food intolerance panel will not be specific for
  a particular gender, a gender-neutral food list was necessary. Since the observed sample was
  imbalanced by gender (e.g., Controls: 22% female, IBS: 64% female), differences in ELISA
   signal magnitude strictly due to gender were removed by modeling signal scores against gender
  using a two-sample t-test and storing the residuals for further analysis. For each of the tested
  foods, residual signal scores were compared between IBS and controls using a permutation test
  on a two-sample t-test with 50,000 resamplings. The Satterthwaite approximation was used for
   the denominator degrees of freedom to account for lack of homogeneity of variances, and the 2
   tailed permuted p-value represented the raw p-value for each food. False Discovery Rates (FDR)
. among the comparisons, were adjusted by any. acceptable statistical procedures (e.g., Benjamini
   Hochberg, Family-wise Error Rate (FWER), Per Comparison Error Rate (PCER), etc.).
   [0078] Foods were then ranked according to their 2-tailed FDR multiplicity-adjusted p-values.
   Foods with adjusted p-values equal to or lower than the desired FDR threshold were deemed to
   have significantly higher signal scores among IBS than control subjects and therefore deemed
                                                      16

    WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
candidates for inclusion into a food intolerance panel. A typical result that is representative of the
outcome of the statistical procedure is provided in Table 2. Here the ranking of foods is
according to 2-tailed permutation T-test p-values with FDR adjustment.
[0079] Notably, the inventors discovered that even for the same food preparation tested, the
ELISA score for at least several food items varied dramatically, and exemplary raw data are
provided in Table 3. As will be readily appreciated, data unstratified by gender will therefore
lose significant explanatory power where the same cutoff value is applied to raw data for male
and female data. To overcome such disadvantage, the inventors stratified the data by gender as
described below.
[0080] Statistical Method for Cutpoint Selection for each Food: The determination of what
ELISA signal scores would constitute a "positive" response was made by summarizing the
distribution of signal scores among the Control subjects. For each food, IBS subjects who had
have observed scores greater than or equal to selected quantiles of the Control subject
distribution were deemed "positive". To attenuate the influence of any one subject on cutpoint
determination, each food-specific and gender-specific dataset was bootstrap resampled 1000
times. Within each bootstrap replicate, the 90th and 95th percentiles of the Control signal scores
were determined. Each IBS subject in the bootstrap sample was compared to the 90th and 95%
percentiles to determine whether he/she had a "positive" response. The final 90th and 95th
percentile-based cutpoints for each food and gender were computed as the average 90th and 95th
percentiles across the 1000 samples. The number of foods for which each IBS subject was rated
as "positive" was computed by pooling data across foods. Using such method, the inventors were
now able to identify cutoff values for a predetermined percentile rank that in most cases was
substantially different as can be taken from Table 4.
[0081] Typical examples for the gender difference in IgG response in blood with respect to
wheat is shown in Figures 1A-1D, where Figure 1A shows the signal distribution in men along
with the 9 5h percentile cutoff as determined from the male control population. Figure 1B shows
the distribution of percentage of male IBS subjects exceeding the 9 0  h and 95 th percentile, while
Figure IC shows the signal distribution in women along with the 95th percentile cutoff as
determined from the female control population. Figure 1D shows the distribution of percentage
                                                 17

    WO 2016/077808                                                                    PCT/US2015/060759
of female IBS subjects exceeding the       90 1hand 9 5 th percentile. In the same fashion, Figures 2A
2D exemplarily depict the differential response to cocoa, Figures 3A-3D exemplarily depict the
differential response to rye, and Figures 4A-4D exemplarily depict the differential response to
black tea. Figures 5A-5B show the distribution of IBS subjects by number of foods that were
identified as trigger foods at the 9 0 th percentile (5A) and    9 5th percentile (5B). Inventors
contemplate that regardless of the particular food items, male and female responses were notably
distinct.
[0082] It should be noted that nothing in the art have provided any predictable food groups
related to IBS that is gender-stratified. Thus, a discovery of food items that show distinct
responses by gender is a surprising result, which could not be obviously expected in view of all
previously available arts. In other words, selection of food. items based on gender stratification
provides an unexpected technical effect such that statistical significances for particular food
items as triggering food among male or female IBS patients have been significantly improved.
[0083] Normalization of IgG Response Data: While the raw data of.the patient's IgG response
results can be use to compare strength of response among given foods, it is also contemplated
that the IgG response results of a patient are normalized and indexed to generate unit-less
numbers for comparison of relative strength of response to a given food. For example, one or
more of a patient's food specific IgG results (e.g., IgG specific to Dungeness crab and IgG
specific to egg) can be normalized to the patient's total IgG. The normalized value of the
patient's IgG specific to Dungeness crab can be 0.1 and the normalized value of the patient's IgG
specific to egg can be 0.3. In this scenario, the relative strength of the patient's response to egg is
three times higher compared to Dungeness crab. Then, the patient's sensitivity to egg and
Dungeness crab can be indexed as such.
[0084] In other examples, one or more of a patient's food specific IgG results (e.g., IgG specific
to shrimp and IgG specific to pork) can be normalized to the global mean of that patient's food
specific IgG results. The global means of the patient's food specific IgG can be measured by
total amount of the patient's food specific IgG. In this scenario, the patient's specific IgG to
shrimp can be normalized to the mean of patient's total food specific IgG (e.g., mean of IgG
levels to shrimp, pork, Dungeness crab, chicken, peas, etc.) . However, it is also contemplated
                                                      18

     WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
that the global means of the patient's food specific IgG can be measured by the patient's IgG
levels to a specific type of food via multiple tests. If the patient have been tested for his
sensitivity to shrimp five times and to pork seven times previously, the patient's new IgG values
to shrimp or to pork are normalized to the mean of five-times test results to shrimp or the mean
of seven-times test results to pork. The normalized value of the patient's IgG specific to shrimp
can be 6.0 and the normalized value of the patient's IgG specific to pork can be 1.0. In this
scenario, the patient has six times higher sensitivity to shrimp at this time compared to his
average sensitivity to shrimp, but substantially similar sensitivity to pork. Then, the patient's
sensitivity to shrimp and pork can be indexed based on such comparison.
[0085] Methodology to determine the subset of LBS patients with food sensitivities that underlie
IBS: While it is suspected that food sensitivities plays a substantial role in signs and symptoms
of IBS, some IBS patients may not have food sensitivities that underlie IBS. Those patients
would not be benefit from dietary intervention to treat signs and symptoms of LBS. To determine
the subset of such patients, body fluid samples of IBS patients and non- IBS patients can be
tested with ELISA test using test devices with 24 food samples.
 [0086] Table 5 provides exemplary raw data. As should be readily appreciated, data indicates
number of positive results out of 24 sample foods based on 9 0th percentile value. From the raw
data shown in Table 5, average and standard deviation of the number of positive foods was
computed for IBS and non-IBS patients. Additionally, the number and percentage of patients
 with zero positive foods was calculated for both IBS and non-LBS. The number and percentage
 of patients with zero positive foods is about 5 fold lower in the IBS population than in the non
 IBS population (6% vs. 38%, respectively). Thus, it can be easily appreciated that the IBS patient
 having sensitivity to zero positive foods is unlikely to have food sensitivities underlying their
 signs and symptoms of IBS.
 [0087] Table 6 and Table 7 show exemplary statistical data summarizing the raw data of two
 patient populations shown in Table 5. The statistical data includes normality, arithmetic mean,
 median, percentiles and 95% confidence interval (CI) for the mean and median representing
 number of positive foods in the LBS population and the non-IBS population.
                                                   19

     WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
[0088] Table 8 and Table 9 show another exemplary statistical data summarizing the raw data
of two patient populations shown in Table 5. In Tables 8 and 9, the raw data was transformed by
logarithmic transformation to improve the data interpretation.
[0089] Table 10 and Table 11 show exemplary statistical data of an independent T-test (Table
10, logarithmically transformed data) and a Mann-Whitney test (Table 11) to compare the
geometric mean number of positive foods between the IBS and non- IBS samples. The data
shown in Table 10 and Table 11 indicates statistically significant differences in the geometric
mean of positive number of foods between the IBS population and the non-IBS population. In
both statistical tests, it is shown that the number of positive responses with 24 food samples is
significantly higher in the IBS population than in the non-IBS population with an average
discriminatory p-value of < 0.001. These statistical data is also illustrated as a box and whisker
plot in Figure 6A, and a notched box and whisker plot in Figure 6B.
[0090] Table 12 shows exemplary statistical data of a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC)
curve analysis of data shown in Tables 5-11 to determine the diagnostic power of the test used in
Table 5 at discriminating IBS from non- IBS subjects. When a cutoff criterion of more than 2
positive foods is used, the test yields a data with 72.4% sensitivity and 72.2% specificity, with an
area under the curve (AUROC) of 0.771. The p-value for the ROC is significant at a p-value of
<0.0001. Figure 7 illustrates the ROC curve corresponding to the statistical data shown in Table
 12. Because the statistical difference between the IBS population and the non-IBS population is
significant when the test results are cut off to positive number of 2, the number of foods that a
patient tests positive could be used as a confirmation of the primary clinical diagnosis IBS, and
whether it is likely that food sensitivities underlies on the patient's signs and symptoms of IBS.
Therefore, the above test can be used as another 'rule in' test to add to currently available clinical
criteria for diagnosis for IBS.
 [0091] Method for determining distribution of per-person number of foods declared "positive":
To determine the distribution of number of "positive" foods per son and measure the diagnostic
performance, the analysis was performed with 24 food items from the Table 1, which shows
most positive responses to IBS patients. The 24 food items includes Cocoa, Black Tea, Oat,
 Cabbage, Cow's Milk, Yellow Onion, Honey, Rye, Corn, Yeast.White Wheat, Soybean, Egg,
                                                   20

     WO 2016/077808                                                                    PCT/US2015/060759
Tuna, Lemon, Pineapple, Cucumber, Orange, Halibut, Walnut, Grapefruit, Cane Sugar,
Chicken, US Gulf White Shrimp. To attenuate the influence of any one subject on this analysis,
each food-specific and gender-specific dataset was bootstrap resampled 1000 times. Then, for
each food item in the bootstrap sample, sex-specific cutpoint was determined using the 90th and
95th percentiles of the control population. Once the sex-specific cutpoints were determined, the
sex-specific cutpoints was compared with the observed ELISA signal scores for both control and
LBS subjects. In this comparison, if the observed signal is equal or more than the cutpoint value,
then it is determined "positive" food, and if the observed signal is less than the cutpoint value,
then it is determined "negative" food.
[0092] Once all food items were determined either positive or negative, the results of the 48(24
foods x 2 cutpoints) calls for each subject were saved within each bootstrap replicate. Then, for
each subject, 24 calls were summed using         90 th percentile as cutpoint to get "Number of Positive
Foods(90th)," and the rest of 24 calls were summed using          9 5th percentile to get "Number of
Positive Foods(95h).." Then, within each replicate, "Number of Positive Foods (9 0 th)" and
"Number of Positive Foods (9 5 th ) were summarized across subjects to get descriptive statistics
for each replicate as follows: 1) overall means equals to the mean of means, 2) overall standard
deviation equals to the mean of standard deviations, 3) overall medial equals to the mean of
medians, 4) overall minimum equals to the minimum of minimums, and 5) overall maximum
equals to maximum of maximum. In this analysis, to avoid non-integer "Number of Positive
Foods" when computing frequency distribution and histogram, the authors pretended that the
 1000 repetitions of the same original dataset were actually 999 sets of new subjects of the same
 size added to the original sample. Once the summarization of data is done, frequency
 distributions and historgrams were generated for both "Number of Positive Foods(90th)" and
 "Number of Positive Foods(95 t )" for both genders and for both LBS subjects and control
 subjects using programs "apos-foods.sas, a.pos-foodsby-dx.sas".
 [0093] Method for measuring diagnostic performance: To measure diagnostic performance for
 each food items for each subject, we used data of "Number of Positive Foods(90h)" and
 "Number of Positive Foods(95th,         for each subject within each bootstrap replicate described
 above. In this analysis, the cutpoint was set to 1. Thus, if a subject has one or more "Number of
 Positive Foods  ( 9 0 th)", then the subject is called "Has IBS." If a subject has less than one
                                                        21

     WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
"Number of Positive Foods     (9 0 th)", then the subject is called "Does Not Have LBS." When all
calls were made, the calls were compared with actual diagnosis to determine whether a call was a
True Positive(TP), True Negative(TN), False Positive(FP), or False Negative(FN). The
comparisons were summarized across subjects to get the performance metrics of sensitivity,
specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for both "Number of Positive
Foods(90th)." and "Number of Positive Foods(95th" when the cutpoint is set to 1 for each
method. Each (sensitivity, 1-specificity) pair becomes a point on the ROC curve for this
replicate.
[0094] To increase the accuracy, the analysis above was repeated by incrementing cutpoint from
2 up to 24, and repeated for each of the 1000 bootstrap replicates. Then the performance metrics
across the 1000 bootstrap replicates were summarized by calculating averages using a program
"tpos-foodsby-dx.sas". The results of diagnostic performance for female and male are shown
in Table 13 (female) and Table 14 (male).
[0095] Of course, it should be appreciated that certain variations in the food preparations may be
made without altering the inventive subject matter presented herein. For example, where the
food item was yellow onion, that item should be understood to also include other onion varieties
that were demonstrated to have equivalent activity in the tests. Indeed, the inventors have noted
that for each tested food preparation, certain other related food preparations also tested in the
same or equivalent manner (data not shown). Thus, it should be appreciated that each tested and
claimed food preparation will have equivalent related preparations with demonstrated equal or
equivalent reactions in the test.
[0096] It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that many more modifications besides
those already described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein. The
inventive subject matter, therefore, is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the appended
claims. Moreover, in interpreting both the specification and the claims, all terms should be
interpreted in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context. In particular, the terms
"comprises" and "comprising" should be interpreted as referring to elements, components, or
steps in a non-exclusive manner, indicating that the referenced elements, components, or steps
may be present, or utilized, or combined with other elements, components, or steps that are-not
                                                     22

    WO 2016/077808                                                            PCT/US2015/060759
expressly referenced. Where the specification claims refers to at least one of something selected
from the group consisting of A, B, C .... and N, the text should be interpreted as requiring only
one element from the group, not A plus N, or B plus N, etc.
                                                 23

      WO 2016/077808                                                  PCT/US2015/060759
Abalone              Cured Cheese                 Onion            Walnut, black
Adlay                Cuttlefish                   Orange           Watermelon
Almond               Duck                         Oyster           Welch Onion
American Cheese      Durian                       Papaya           Wheat
Apple                Eel                          Paprika          Wheat bran
Artichoke            Egg White (separate)         Parsley          Yeast (S. cerevisiae)
Asparagus            Egg Yolk (separate)          Peach            Yogurt
Avocado              Egg, white/yolk (comb.)      Peanut
Baby Bok Choy        Eggplant                     Pear             FOOD ADDITIVES
Bamboo shoots        Garlic                       Pepper, Black    Arabic Gum
Banana               Ginger                       Pineapple        Carboxymethyl Cellulose
Barley, whole grain  Gluten - Gliadin             Pinto bean       Carrageneenan
Beef                 Goat's milk                  Plum             FD&C Blue #1
Beets                Grape, white/concord         Pork             FD&C Red #3
Beta-lactoglobulin   Grapefruit                   Potato           FD&C Red #40
Blueberry            Grass Carp                   Rabbit           FD&C Yellow #5
Broccoli             Green Onion                  Rice             FD&C Yellow #6
Buckwheat            Green pea                    Roquefort Cheese Gelatin
Butter '             Green pepper                 Rye              Guar Gum
Cabbage              Guava                        Saccharine       Maltodextrin
Cane sugar           Hair Tail                    Safflower seed   Pectin
Cantaloupe           Hake                         Salmon           Whey
Caraway              Halibut                      Sardine          Xanthan Gum
Carrot               Hazelnut                     Scallop
Casein               Honey                        Sesame
Cashew               Kelp                         Shark fin
Cauliflower          Kidney bean                  Sheep's milk
Celery               Kiwi Fruit                   Shrimp
Chard                Lamb                         Sole
Cheddar Cheese       Leek                         Soybean
Chick Peas           Lemon                        Spinach
Chicken              Lentils                      Squashes
Chili pepper         Lettuce, Iceberg             Squid
Chocolate            Lima bean                    Strawberry
Cinnamon             Lobster                      String bean
Clam                 Longan.                      Sunflower seed
Cocoa Bean           Mackerel                     Sweet potato
Coconut              Malt                         Swiss cheese
Codfish              Mango                        Taro
Coffee               Marjoram                     Tea, black
Cola nut             Millet                       Tobacco
Corn                 Mung bean                    Tomato
Cottage cheese       Mushroom                     Trout
Cow's milk           Mustard seed                 Tuna
Crab                 Oat                          Turkey
Cucumber             Olive                        Vanilla
                                             Table 1
                                               24

WO 2016/077808                                                      PCT/US2015/060759
         Ranking of Foods according to 2-tailed Permutation T-test
                      p-values with FDR adjustment
                                                        FDR
                                            Raw    Multiplicity-adj
                 Rank           Food      p-value    p-value
                 1     Cocoa               0.0000          0.0000
                 2     Black Tea           0.0001          0.0020
                 3     Oat                 0.0002          0.0032
                 4     Cabbage             0.0004-         0.0032
                 5     Cows Milk           0.0004          0.0032
                 6     Yellow Onion        0.0006          0.0041
                 7     Honey               0.0008          0.0044
                 8      Rye                0.0010          0.0044
                 9     Corn                0.0010          0.0044
                 10    Yeast               0.0012          0.0047
                 11    White Wheat         0.0015          0.0055
                 12     Soybean            0.0020          0.0066
                 13     Egg                0.0022          0.0069
                 14    Tuna                0.0029          0.0084
                 15     Lemon              0.0036          0.0096
                 16     Pineapple          0.0045          0.0103
                 17     Cucumber           0.0046          0.0103
                 18     Orange             0.0046          0.0103
                  19    Halibut            0.0057          0.0120
                 20     Walnut             0.0062          0.0125
                 21     Grapefruit         0.0085          0.0161
                 22     Cane Sugar         0.0174          0.0316
                 23     Chicken            0.0184          0.0321
                 24     Blueberry          0.0218          0.0363
                 25     US Gulf White      0.0230           0.0367
                        Shrimp
                 26     Dungeness Crab     0.0346           0.0533
                 27     Barley.            0.0440           0.0652
                 28     Strawberry         0.0555           0.0793
                 29     Pork               0.0976           0.1312
                 30   - Brown Rice         0.0984           0.1312
                                       25

WO 2016/077808                                               PCT/US2015/060759
                                                  FDR
                                         Raw Multiplicity-ad
               Rank          Food      p-value p-value
               31   Beef                0.1067       0.1377
               32   Cashew              0.1375       0.1718
               33   Codfish             0.1741       0.2111
               34   Potato              0.2443       0.2825
               35   White Sesame        0.2472       0.2825
               36.  Broccoli            0.2589       0.2876
               37   Almond              0.3174    .  0.3432
               38   Turkey              0.4028       0.4240
               39   Scallop             0.7149       0.7332
               40   Salmon              0.9352       0.9352
                                  Table 2
                                    26

WO 2016/077808                                                                PCT/US2015/060759
     Basic Descriptive Statistics of ELISA Score by Food and Gender
                               Comparing IBS to Control
                                                              ELISA Score
            Sex           Food        Diagnosis   N   Mean       SD     Min   Max
           F    Almond              Control       26   0.227    0.124   0.100 0.565
                                    IBS           46   0.358    0.474   0.078 3.065
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.132    0.387
                Barley              Control       26   0.255    0.144   0.093 0.725
                                    IBS           46   0.450    0.361   0.118  1.676
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.195    0.302
                Beef                Control       26   0.170    0.081   0.086 0.439
                                    IBS           45   0.190    0.090   0.072 0.467
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.020    0.087
                Black Tea           Control       26   0.179    0.075   0.069  0.307
                                    IBS           46   0.272    0.086   0.115  0.508
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.093    0.083
                Blueberry           Control       26   0.425    0.190   0.233  1.061
                                    IBS           46   0.480    0.143   0.239  0.867
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.055     0.162
                Broccoli            Control       26   0.220     0.127  0.118  0.620
                                    IBS           46   0.280     0.174  0.106  1.042
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.059     0.159
                Brown Rice          Control       26   0.236     0.118  0.082  0.449
                                    IBS           46   0.253     0.136  0.101  0.690
                                    Diff (1-2)      _ -0.018     0.130
                Cabbage             Control       26   0.285     0.161  0.086  0.642
                                     IBS          46   0.432     0.173  0.132  1.033
                                     Diff (1-2)     _ -0.147     0.169
                Cane Sugat          Control        26   0.377    0.272  0.070  0.835
                                     IBS           46   0.521    0.234  0.107  0.975
                                     Diff (1-2)     _ -0.143     0.248
                Cashew              Control        26  -0.249    0.277  0.080  1.528
                                     IBS           46   0.286    0.215  0.081  1.183
                                     Diff (1-2)     _ -0.037     0.239
                Chicken              Control       25   0.123    0.064  0.056  0.314
                                     IBS           46   0.156    0.097  0.062  0.579
                                     Diff (1-2)     _  -0.033    0.087
                Cocoa                Control       26   0.345    0.151  0.142  0.656
                                               27

WO 2016/077808                                                         PCT/US2015/060759
                                                      ELISA Score
            Sex           Food  Diagnosis   N  Mean      SD     Min     Max
                               IBS         46   0.587   0.349   0.208   2.030
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.242   0.294
                Codfish        Control     26   0.202   0.081   0.083   0.392
                               IBS         46   0.182   0.180   0.048   1.069
                               Diff (1-2)    _  0.020   0.152
                Corn           Control     26   0.416   0.221   0.114   0.923
                               IBS         47   0.562   0.333   0.146   1.686
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.146   0.298
                Cow Milk       Control     26   0.676   0.538   0.074   2.212
                               IBS         46   1.191   0.845   0.134   3.035
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.515   0.750
                Cucumber       Control     26   0.168   0.083   0.079   0.317
                               IBS         46   0.211   0.071   0.088   0.460
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.043   0.075
                Dungeness Crab Control     26   0.321   0.187   0.107   0.757
                               IBS         46   0.390   0.226   0.082   1.285
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.068   0.213
                Egg            Control     26   0.336   0.296   0.060   1.119
                               IBS         46   0.903   0.858   0.115   3.274
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.567   0.710
                Grapefruit     Control     25   0.154   0.088   0.069   0.458
                               IBS         46   0.203   0.148   0.085   1.014
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.049   0.130
                Halibut        Control     26   0.246   0.125   0.093   0.544
                               IBS         46   0.348   0.198   0.103   0.941
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.101   0.175
                Honey          Control     26   0.584   0.306   0.152   1.463
                               IBS         46   0.805   0.364   0.200   1.638
                               Diff.(1-2)    _ -0.220   0.344        _        _
                Lemon          Control     26   0.282   0.157  -0.080   0.635
                               IBS         45   0.444   0.297   0.120   1.567
                               Diff (1-2)      -0.162   0.255
                Oat            Control     .26  0.282   0.253   0.071   1.116
                               IBS         47   0.693   0.680   0.086   2.934
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.411   0.567
                Orange         Control     26   0.222   0.119   0.080   0.549
                               IBS         46   0.313   0.166   0.106   1.044
                               Diff (1-2)    _ -0.091   0.151
                                        28

WO 2016/077808                                                                   PCT/US2015/060759
                                                                ELISA Score
            Sex           Food        Diagnosis    N    Mean       SD     Min     Max
                Pineapple            Control       26    0.924    0.853   0.098   3.467
                                     IBS           47     1.624   1.015   0.206   3.721
                                     Diff (1-2)      _  -0.700    0.961
                Pork                 Control       26    0.392    0.266   0.107   1.285
                                     IBS           46    0.466    0.283   0.064   1.248
                                     Diff (1-2)      _  -0.074    0.277
                Potato       .       Control       26    0.209    0.104   0.075   0.441
                                     IBS           46    0.266    0.089   0.087   0.474
                                     Diff (1-2).        -0.057    0.095
                Rye                  Control       26    0.138    0.054   0.073   0.299
                                     IBS           47    0.249    0.193   0.080   1.248
                                     Diff (1-2)      _  -0.111    0.159
                Salmon               Control       26    0.230    0.140   0.102   0.684
                                     IBS           46    0.196.   0.100   0.058   0.444
                                     Diff (1-2)       _   0.034   0.116
                Scallop              Control       25     0.283   0.205   0.086   1.025
                                     IBS           46     0.277   0.173   0.102   0.860
                                     Diff (1-2)     -.    0.005   0.185
                Soybean              Control       26     0.508   0.228   0.210   0.849
                                     IBS           46     0.658   0.230   0.252   1.101
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.150    0.229
                Strawberry           Control       26     0.145   0.059   0.060   0.259
                                     IBS           46     0.176   0.056   0.075   0.370
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.031    0.057
                Tuna                 Control       26     0.588   0.297   0.202   1.375
                                     IBS           46     0.859    0.431  0.181   1.875
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.271     0.388
                Turkey               Control       26     0.248    0.110  0.072   0.583
                                     IBS           46     0.267    0.110  0.112   0.691
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.019     0.110
                US Gulf White Shrimp Control       26     0.563    0.325  0.188   1.693
                                     IBS           45     0.834    0.459  0.210   2.135
                                     Diff (1-2)          -0.271    0.415
                Walnut               Control       26     0.194    0.070  0.096   0.315
                                     IBS           46     0.273    0.123  0.135   0.944
                                     Diff (1-2)      -   -0.079    0.107       _       _
                White Sesame         Control       26     0.705    0.524  0.190  .2.663
                                     IBS           46     0.734    0.393  0.126   1.967
                                                29

WO 2016/077808                                                             PCT/US2015/060759
                                                           ELISA Score
            Sex           Food   Diagnosis     N   Mean        SD    Min    Max
                               Diff (1-2)       _  -0.029    0.444
                White Wheat    Control         26   0.228    0.125   0.106  0.576
                               IBS             47   0.427    0.355   0.096  1.872
                               Diff (1-2)        . -0.198    0.295
                Yeast          Control         25   0.963    0.624   0.157  2.364
                               IBS             46    1.291   0.844   0.247  3.438
                               Diff (1-2)       _  -0.327    0.775
                Yellow Onion   Control         26   0.570    0.442   0.105  1.497
                               IBS             46   0.911     0.439  0.129  1.791
                               Diff (1-2)          -0.341     0.440
           M    Almond         Control         89   0.335     0.391  0.077  2.342
                               IBS             29   0.361     0.341  0.069  1.442
                               Diff (1-2)        _ -0.026     0.379
                Barley         Control         89   0.419     0.430  0.110  2.242
                               IBS             29   0.525     0.499  0.092  1.935
                               Diff (1-2)        _ -0.106     0.448
                Beef           Control         73   0.184     0.127  0.081  0.979
                                IBS            27    0.222    0.102  0.078  0.555
                                Diff (1-2)   -     -0.038     0.121
                Black Tea      Control         89    0.209    0.088  0.080  0.522
                                IBS            29    0.242    0.076  0.118  0.395
                                Diff (1-2)       _ -0.033     0.086
                Blueberry      Control         89    0.425    0.228  0.216  2.031
                                IBS            29    0.517    0.207  0.278  1.424
                                Diff (1-2)       _ -0.092     0.223
                Broccoli        Control        89    0.242    0.204  0.096  1.747
                                IBS            29    0.263    0.194  0.133  1.116
                                Diff (1-2)       _ -0.021     0.201
                Brown Rice      Control        89    0.237    0.123  0.081  0.714
                               .lBS            29    0.288    0.122  0.090  0.554
                                Diff (1-2)       _ -0.051     0.122
                Cabbage         Control        89    0.322    0.173  0.089  0.873
                                IBS            29    0.409    0.192  0.105  0.878
                                Diff (1-2)       _  -0.087    0.178
                Cane Sugar      Control        89    0.375    0.255  0.076  1.097
                                IBS            29    0.446    0.230  0.098  0.804
                                Diff (1-2) *        -0.071    0.249
                Cashew          Control        89    0.230    0.157  0.078  1.152
                                          30

WO 2016/077808                                                                 PCT/US2015/060759
                                                              ELISA Score
            Sex          Food    Diagnosis      N     Mean        SD    Min     Max
                               IBS              29     0.291    0.167   0.072  0.686
                               Diff (1-2)             -0.062    0.160
                Chicken        Control          88     0.134    0.069   0.055   0.339
                               IBS              29     0.172    0.087   0.055   0.385
                               Diff (1-2)         _   -0.037    0.074
                Cocoa          Control          89     0.399    0.198   0.158   1.386
                               IBS             '29     0.623    0.294   0.209   1.310
                               Diff (1-2)          _  -0.224     0.225
                Codfish        Control          89     0.198     0.191  0.072   1.759
                               IBS              29     0.146     0.053  0.071   0.325
                               Diff (1-2)          _   0.053     0.169
                Corn           Control          89     0.414     0.240  0.137   1.185
                               IBS              29     0.618     0.330  0.183   1.310
                               Diff (1-2)          _  -0.204     0.265
                Cow Milk       Control          89     0.805     0.621  0.095   2.416
                               IBS              29     1.309     0.946  0.128   3.525
                               Diff (1-2)          _  -0.504     0.713
                Cucumber       Control          89     0.167     0.069  0.070   0.343
                               IBS              29     0.197     0.070  0.079   0.322
                                Diff (1-2)        -   -0.030     0.069       -
                Dungeness Crab Control           89    0.342     0.175  0.104   1.047
                                IBS              29    0.431     0.249  0.082   0.992
                                Diff (1-2)   .        -0.089     0.195
                Egg            Control           89    0.407     0.385  0.071   1.799
                                IBS              29    0.609     0.681  0.094   2.589
                                Diff (1-2)          _ -0.202     0.474
                Grapefruit      Control          88     0.182    0.100  0.063   0.613
                                IBS              29     0.260    0.185  0.058   0.658
                                Diff (1-2) '          -0.079     0.126
                Halibut         Control          89     0.284    0.153  0.105   0.751
                                IBS              29     0.379    0.267  0.112   1.477
                                Diff (1-2)          _ -0.095     0.187
                Honey           Control          89     0.644    0.358  0.210   2.059
                                IBS              29     0.911    0.557  0.227   2.635
                                Diff (1-2)          _ -0.267     0.415
                Lemon           Control          89     0.358    0.239   0.091   1.254
                                IBS              29     0.503    0.375   0.082   1.709
                                Diff (1-2)          _  -0.146    0.278
                                          31

WO 2016/077808                                                                  PCT/US2015/060759
                                                               ELISA Score
            Sex           Food        Diagnosis     N   Mean      SD     Min     Max
                Oat                  Control        89   0.384   0.378   0.066   1.972
                                     IBS            29   0.745   0.666   0.101  2.614
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.361   0.464        _
                Orange               Control        89   0.265   0.152   0.079   0.831
                                     IBS         .  29   0.358   0.252   0.076   1.126
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.093   0.181
                Pineapple            Control        89   1.053   0.915   0.123   3.617
                                     IBS            29   1.354   0.883   0.287   3.126
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.301   0.908
                Pork                 Control        89   0.388   0.219   0.110   1.216
                                     IBS            29   0.462   0.244   0.126   1.057
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.075   0.225     ~
                Potato               Control        89   0.249   0.170   0.069   1.408
                                     IBS            29   0.253   0.125   0.100   0.578
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.004   0.161
                Rye                  Control        89   0.178   0.100   0.079   0.610
                                     IBS            29   0.237   0.129   0.088   0.651
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.060   0.108
                Salmon               Control        89   0.206   0.132   0.073   0.897
                                     IBS            29   0.229   0.185   0.114   1.065
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.022   0.147
                Scallop              Control        88   0.294   0.187   0.095   0.973
                                     IBS           -29   0.320   0.222   0.067   1.161
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.026   0.196
                Soybean              Control        89   0.523   0.292   0.175   1.653
                                     IBS            29   0.715    0.490  0.187   2.583
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.191    0.351
                Strawberry           Control        89   0.151    0.058  0.062   0.311
                                     IBS            29   0.161    0.053  0.077   0.252
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.010    0.057
                Tuna                 Control        89   0.725    0.369  0.183   1.752
                                     IBS           .29   0.899    0.459  0.213   1.952
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.174    0.393
                Turkey               Control        89   0.252    0.109  0.100   0.711
                                     IBS            29   0.265    0.099  0.109   0.510
                                     Diff (1-2)       _ -0.013    0.107
                US Gulf White Shrimp Control        89   0.709    0.366  0.226   1.982
                                     IBS            29   0.797    0.422  0.222   1.550
                                                32

WO 2016/077808                                                          PCT/US2015/060759
                                                        ELISA Score
            Sex          Food  Diagnosis     N   Mean       SD    Min    Max
                              Diff (1-2)       _ -0.089   0.380      '
                Walnut        Control        89   0.216   0.110   0.095  0.839
                              IBS            29   0.244   0.085   0.101  0.428
                              Diff (1-2)       _ -0.029   0.104
                White Sesame  Control        89   0.620   0.375   0.112  1.855
                              IBS            29   0.744   0.412   0.153  1.970
                              Diff (1-2).      _ -0.124   0.385
                White Wheat   Control        89   0.290   0.250   0.095  1.681
                              IBS            29   0.463   0.400   0.130  1.561
                              Diff (1-2)       _ -0.173   0.293
                Yeast         Control        88   0.940    0.624  0.172  3.157
                              IBS            29   1.481    0.788  0.416  2.892
                              Diff (1-2)       _ -0.541    0.668
                Yellow Onion  Control        89   0.558    0.418  0.094  1.672
                              IBS            29   0.760    0.417  0.098  1.507
                              Diff (1-2)   .     -0.203    0.418
                                  Table 3
                                        33

 WO 2016/077808                                                              PCT/US2015/060759
Upper Quantiles of ELISA Signal Scores among Control Subjects as Candidates
           for Test Cutpoints in Determining "Positive" or "Negative"
    Top 24 Foods Ranked by Descending order of Discriminatory Ability using Permutation Test
                                                           Cutpoint
                         Food                         90th          95th
                       Ranking      Food     Sex   percentile    percentile
                      1        Cocoa         F          0.544         0.587
                                             M          0.581         0.721
                      2        BlackTea      F          0.281         0.296
                                             M          0.337         0.379
                      3        Oat           F          0.647         0.813
                                             M          0.880         1.187
                      4        Cabbage       F          0.507         0.573
                                             M          0.542         0.644
                      5        CowsMilk      F           1.373        1.611
                                             M           1.872        2.133
                      6        YellowOnion   F           1.109        1.214
                                             M           1.142        1.328
                      7        Honey         F           1.022        1.189
                                             M           1.111        1.422
                      8        Rye           F          0.209         0.237
                                             M          0.313         0.400
                      9        Corn          F          0.755         0.835
                                             M          0.774         0.904
                      10       Yeast         F           1.811        2.014
                                             M           1.883        2.102
                      11       WhiteWheat    F           0.409        0.477
                                             M           0.492        0.704
                      12       Soybean       F           0.778        0.806
                                             M           0.891         1.076
                      13       Egg           F           0.794        0.932
                                             M           0.988         1.270
                      14       Tuna          F           1.054         1.208
                                             M           1.276         1.472
                       15      Lemon         F           0.533        0.585
                                             M           0.705        0.885
                      16       Pineapple     F           2.139        2.646
                                             M           2.651        3.030
                       17      Cucumber      F           0.289         0.305
                                            34

WO 2016/077808                                                     PCT/US2015/060759
                                                  Cutpoint
                  Food                      90th           95th
                Ranking      Food     Sex percentile    percentile
                                     M         0.265         0.301
               18       Orange       F         0.389         0.456
                                     M         0.483         0.589
               19       Halibut      F         0.451         0.497
                                     M         0.506         0.600
               20       Walnut       F         0.288         0.297
                                     M         0.319         0.387
               21       Grapefruit   F         0.267         0.333
                                     M         0.328         0.380
               22       CaneSugar    F         0.739         0.775
                                     M        0.746          0.834
               23       Chicken      F         0.214         0.249
                                     M         0.250         0.275
               24       Blueberry    F         0.676         0.807
                                     M         0.630         0.787
                                   Table 4
                                     35

  WO 2016/077808                                              PCT/US2015/060759
               lBS Population                    FNon-IBS.Population
                        # of Positive Results                   # of Positive Results
    Sample ID        based on 90th Percentile       Sample ID      based on 90th
       IBS-3                      5                BRH-768035             0
       IBS-S                      0                BRH-768034              1
      IBS-11                      1                BRH-768033              1
      IBS-12                      9                BRH-768032              1
      IBS-14                      0                BRH-768031              1
      IBS-18                      0                BRH-763484             0
      IBS-19                      1                BRH-768029            10
      IBS-23                     11                BRH-768028             8
      IBS-24                      1                BRH-763510             4
      IBS-30                      9                BRH-768036             0
      IBS-33                      8                BRH-768037              1
      IBS-35                      7                BRH-768038              1
      IBS-38                      6                BRH-768039             0
      IBS-40                      3                BRH-768040             0
      IBS-42                      6                BRH-768041              1
      IBS-43                      2                BRH-768042              1
   BRH-698596                     4                BRH-768043              5
-  BHR-698597                     9                BRH-768044              3
   BRH-698598                     4                BRH-768055              1
   BRH-698599                    18                BRH-768054              1
   BRH-698600                      3               BRH-764371              0
   BRH-698621                     12               BRH-768056              2
   BRH-698622'                     7               BRH-764372              2
   BRH-698623                      5               BRH-764377              5
   BRH-698624                      1               BRH-764378              2
   BRH-698625                      9               BRH-763531              1
   BRH-774496                     17               BRH-764329              0
   BRH-763476                      0               BRH-763533              0
   BRH-768030                      0               BRH-763529              0
        IBS-2                      1               BRH-763553             12
        IBS-4                      1               BRH-763528              0
        IBS-6                      1               BRH-763509              0
        IBS-7                      9               BRH-763517              2
        IBS-8                      9               BRH-763500              0
        IBS-9                      1               BRH-764332              0
       IBS-10                     14               BRH-764338              1
       IBS-13                     19               BRH-764337              3
       IBS-15                      9               BRH-764341              1
       IBS-16                      1               BRH-764340              1
       IBS-17                      9               BRH-764342              0
       IBS-20                     16               BRH-764347              1
       IBS-21                     23               BRH-764343              5
       IBS-22                     20               BRH-774498              1
       IBS-25                      2               BRH-768027             12
                                              36

 WO 2016/077808                                       PCT/US2015/060759
               IBS P pulation                  Non-lBS Population
      IBS-26                   16       BRH-768000               1
      IBS-27                    8       BRH-774499               12
      IBS-28                  -10       BRH-774502               4
      IBS-29                    8       BRH-774504               8
      IBS-31                    4       BRH-767999               0
      IBS-32                    2       BRH-764350               0
      IBS-34                    0       BRH-763534               0
      IBS-36                    3       BRH-763506               0
      IBS-37                    5       BRH-774495               2
      IBS-39                   19       BRH-764353               0
      IBS-41                    5       BRH-764355               0
      IBS-44                    5       BRH-764356               0
  BRH-698601                   10       BRH-764361               1
  BRH-698602                    3       BRH-764368               1
  BRH-698603                   13       BRH-768053               2
  BRH-698604                   10       BRH-764370               1
  BRH-698605                    8       BRH-764346               0
  BRH-698606                    4       BRH-768052               0
  BRH-698607                    2       BRH-764335               10
  BRH-698608                    4       BRH-774510               2
  BRH-698609                    1       BRH-774511               0
  BRH-698610                    1  '    BRH-768001               2
  BRH-698611                    3       BRH-768007               0
  BRH-698612                    3       BRH-768008               3
  BRH-698613                   12       BRH-767995               0
  BRH-698614                   11       BRH-767992               3
   BRH-698615                   4       BRH-767991               0
   BRH-698616                   S       BRH-764344               2
   BRH-698617                  11       BRH-764386               0
   BRH-698618                   6       BRH-763513               7
   BRH-698619                   9       BRH-763530               5
  BRH-698620                    6       BRH-764345                1
                                        BRH-764336               0
No of observation              76       BRH-764352               4
  Average # of                6.63      BRH-764360               0
        SD                    5.54      BRH-764339               4
                                        BRH-763527               17
                                        BRH-764334                1
                                        BRH-764349               0
                                        BRH-764380               0
                                        BRH-764366               0
                                        BRH-763526               19
                                        BRH-764351                2
                                        BRH-763503               3
                                        BRH-764365               3
                                        BRH-764381               0
                                        BRH-763523               0
                                        BRH-774500               3
                                     37

WO 2016/077808                           PCT/US2015/060759
                                 Non-IBS Population
                         BRH-774501                 1
                         BRH-774505                6
                         BRH-774503                2
                         BRH-774494                0
                         BRH-774493                0
                         BRH-774492                 1
                         BRH-774491                0
                         BRH-764357                 2
                         BRH-764358                 0
                         BRH-768045                0
                         BRH-768047                 1
                         BRH-768048                8
                         BRH-768049                12
                         BRH-768051                0
                         BRH-768050                 5
                         BRH-774506                11
                         BRH-774507                0
                         BRH-774509                0
                         BRH-774512                0
                         BRH-774513.               4
                         BRH-774514                 1
                         BRH-764359                 3
                         BRH-763524                 1
                       No of observation          115
                         Average # of             2.37
                              SD                  3.67
               Table 5
                 38

WO 2016/077808                                                                      PCT/US2015/060759
         Variable             IBS
                              IBS
         Sample size                                                                         76
         Lowest value                                                                    0.0000
         Highest value                                                                  23 0000
         Arithmetic mean                                                                 6.6316
         95% C1 for the mean                                                   5.3651 to 7.8980
         Median                                                                          500
             95 lfrte      median                                              4.0000 '8 0000
                                                                                      to
               .ari
              ance                                                                       6fb"
         Standard deviation                                                              5 5422
                    standard deviation
         Relative "...........                             .
                                             ........................    ...0.8357
                                                                      ...........
                                                                  . .......            (83.57%/)
                                                                                  35._.0657
                     error of the mean
               standardd                                                                 0.6357
                icient of Skewness                                           09423 (P 0.0017)
          Coeff icient of Kurtosis                                           0.3684 (P=0.4053)
              gostino-Pearson test                               reject Normality (P=0.0051)
         for Normal distribution                     ..       .     .      .      .
         Percentiles                                                 95% Confidence Interval
         2.5                            0.0000
                                        0.0000                                 0.0000 to 1.00001
         10                             1.0000                                 0.0000 tol10000
         25                             2.0000                                 1.0000 to 3.1043
         75                             9.0000                                8.8957 to 11.6255
                   9015.8000                                               11.0000 to 19.0000
         95                            18.7000                             15.2303 to 22 7004
                   97.5                19.6000
                                           Table 6
                                               39

WO 2016/077808                                                                 PCT/US2015/060759
        Variable            Non IBS
                            Non IBS
        Sample size                                                                   115
         West value                                                               0.0000
        H highest value                                                          19.0000
        Arithmetic mean .............            ...... .............      89t3.422.3652
        95% Cl for the mean                                             1.6879 to 3.0426
        Median                                                                    1.0000
        95% Cl for the median                                           1.0000 to 1.0000
        Variance                                                                 13. 4444
        Standard deviation                                                        3.6667
        Relative standard deviation                                    1.550    502 %)
         Standard error of the mean                                               0.3419
        Coefficient of Skewness                                       2.3537 (P<0 0001)
        Coefficient of Kurtosis                                       5.8546 (P<0.0001)
        D'Agosin o-Pearson test                           reject Normality (P<0.0001)
        for Normal distribution
        Percentiles                                           95% Confidence Interval
        2.5                            0.0000
                 50.0000                                                0.0000 to 0.00001
        10                             0.0000                           0.0000 to 0.0000
                 250.0000                                               0.0000 to 0.0000
        75                             3.0000                           2.0000 to 4.0000
                                       8.0000                         5.0000 to 11.8759
        95                            11.7500                         8.0000 to 16.1360
        97.5                          12.0000
                                           Table 7
                                              40

       WO 2016/077808                                                                                                    PCT/US2015/060759
Variable            IBS_1
                    IBS 1
Back-transformed
      ..........
                       after logarithmic
                     ......      ........
                                             transformation.
                                                          ......
                                               .. .. ..........                    ... . ........        .   .  .....
Sample size                                                                                                           76
,Lowest value                                                                                                  0.1000
 Highest value                                                                                                23.0000
Geometric mean                                                                                                 3.7394
95% Cl for the mean                                                                                2.7247 to5.1321
 Median.........                                 ...........      -................
                                                          11-..........                                        5.0000
                                                                                                           ..........
95% Cl for the median                                                                              4.0000 to 8.0000
 Coefficient of Skewness                                                                        -1.3159'(P=0.0001)
 Coefficient of Kurtosis                                                                         1.3551 (P=0.0481)
 D'Agostino-Pearson test                                                    reject Normality (P<0.0001)
             distribution
for Normal........................              .. .....        .  ..... ~.    .................
 Percentiles                                                                    95% Confidence Interva
 2.5      ........... .....
         .......                     0.1000
                                     ..............
                                          .......        ...... ................. ......--. ..... ..
 5                                   0.1000                                                        0. 000tol1.0000
 10                                   1.0000                                                       0.1000 to 1.0000
 25                                  2.0000                                                        1.0000 to 3.0914
 75                                  9.0000                                                       8.8901 to 11.6153
 90                                 15.7878                                                      11.0000 to 19.0000
 95                                 18.6943                                                      15.1985 to 22.6812
 97.5                               19.5938
                                                                       Table 8
                                                                              41

    WO 2016/077808                                                                 PCT/US2015/060759
Variable          non_lBS_1
                  non-IBS 1
Back-transformed after logarithmic transformation.
Sample size                                                                   115
Lowest value                                                              0.1000
Highest value                                                           19.0000
Geometric mean                                                            0.7278
95% C1 for the mean                                           0.5297 to 1.0001
Median                                                                    1.0000
95% CI for the median                                         1.0000 to 1.0000
Coefficient of Skewness                                    0.04343 (P=0.8428)
Coefficient of Kurtosis                                    -1.4006 (P<0.0001)
DAgostino-Pearson test                             reject Normality (P<0.0001)
for Normal distribution
Percentiles                 .95%                           Confidence Intervalj
2.5                            0.1000
5                              0.1000                         0.1000 to 0.1000
      1. . . . .               0.1000..... ...
                        ...............-..........            0 .lO .......    0.....
        250.1000                                              0.l1000to0. 1000
  S3.1000                                                    6.6660 to 4i.
90. ............. 8.0000                                     5.0000 to** 11."8711I
  S11.7418                                                   8.0OO6to 16.0070
97.5                         12.0000
                                                Table 9
                                                   42

 WO 2016/077808                                                                    PCT/US2015/060759
Sample 1
Variable                  IBS 1
                          IBS 1
Sample 2
Variable                  non IBS 1
                          non-IBS 1
Back-transformed after logarithmic transformation.
                                                                        Sample 1               Sample 2
Sample size                                                                                          115
Geometric mean                                                            3.7394                 0.7278
 T-test
95%      (assuming
      CI fo difermen equal variances)                                               912 to32
                                                                                 -024           -058
Difference on Log-transformed scale
Difference                                                                                      -0.7108
         of Cl
        95% ratio.........1.....................................02to30
   T aie probability                                                                        P < 0.0001
Back-transformed results
Ratio of geometric means                                                            ...........  0.1946................................................
                                                                Table 10
                                                                     43

WO 2016/077808                                                                                                           PCT/US2015/060759
Sample 1
Variable                 IBS_1
                         IBS 1
Sample 2
Variable                 non IBS 1
                         non-IBS 1
                                                                                  Sample 1                                            Sample 2
Sample size                                         ...................................      76                                                 115
Highest value                                                                         230000                                              19.0000
                          . . . . .     .........  ..................                                   ..........               ........
95% Cl for the median                                      4.0000 to 8.000..........1.0000 to 1.0000.
 nterquartile ange                                         2.0000 to 9.0000                                               0.1000 to 3.0000
  Mann-Whitney test (independent samples)
Average rank of first group                                                                                                            127.1382
Average rankA ea ofe..second group    .       .. ..............-........ .... .........                                                 75. 417
                                                                                                                               ...........75  42.1-.-I
 Mann-Whitney U                                                                                                                         2003.50
Test statistic Z (corrected for ties)                                                                                                        6.410
 Tvo-talled  probability
             probability.......................
      Two-tailed...............  .    .........               .................         ......... ... .........                    P <~0.0001
                                                                                                                   ..................        ~ o
                                                    Table 11
                                                                   44

           WO 2016/077808                                                                      PCT/US2015/060759
Variable                         IBSTest
                          l      I.lBS Test
              .lassification
                  variable       Diag
                                 Diag
S       mplesi ze                                                                         191
    siegye group              Diag = 1                                                      76
    9.91.. *.9. .9up          Diag =0                                                     115
Disease prevalence (%)                                                              unknown
 Area under the ROC curve (AUC)
Area under the ROC curve (AUC) .                                                        0.771
95% Confidence intervals                                                      0.70 to   0.828
Significance level P (Area=0.5)                                                         .01
  aDeLongeatal., 1988
   bBinomial exact
  VYouden index
Youden index J                                                                         0.4454
95% Confidence interva 5                                                   0.2976 to 0.5542
Associated criterion                                                                        >2
95% Confidence intervals                                                                0 to 2
    BC. bootstrap interval (1000 iterations).
  Summary Table
Estimated specificity at fixed sensitivity
Sensitivity                    Specificity               95% Cla -              Criterion
80.00                              57.90             43.98  to  74.43            >0.8364
90.00                              41 68             30.23  to  52.71           >0.1455
95.00                              38.26             27.83  to  46.09               >0
97.50                              38.26              27.83 to  46.09               >0
Estimated sensitivity at fixed specificity
Specificity                    Sensitivity                95% Cla               Criterion
80.00                              62.89              47.37 to 76.32               >3.2
90.00                              39.91              15.58 to 59.59             >7.1667
95.00                              15.62              5.83 to 32.66             >11.0625
97.50                              13.73              3.95 to 29.91             >1 1.7812
  'BCa bootstrap interval (1000 iterations).
  Criterion values and coordinates of the ROC curve [Hidel
Criterion Sensitivity                  95% Cl  Specificity         95% CI  +LR       95% C[ -LR        95% Cl
      !O100.00                 95.3 -100.0          0.00          0.0-3.2  1.00     1.0 -1 0
>0                   9211         836     97.0    38.26       29.4    47.8 1.49     1.3- 1.7   0.21  0.09 -05
>1                    77.63       66.6 -86.4 1    61.74        52.2 -70.6 2.03      1.6 -2.6 10.36 !0.2 -0.6
          2727                    60.9-82.0       72.17        63.0-80.1 2.60       1.9-3.6 0.38      0.3-0.6
      >364.47                     52.7-75.1        79.13      70.6-86.1    3.09     2.1 -4.6 :0.45    0.3-0.6
>4                    56.58 i44.7 -67.9           83.48       75.4 -89.7 3.42       2.2 -5.4 0.52     0.4 07.
       >548.68                    37      604 ....87.83        80.4-93.240          236        05     05     7
>6                    43.42       321553          88.70        81.4-93.8 3.84       2.2-68 0.64       0.5-.08
                                                           Table 12
                                                                 45

WO 2016/077808                                                            PCT/US2015/060759
       Performance Metrics In PredictingIBS Status from Number of Positive Foods
                Using 90th Percentile of ELISA Signal to determine Positive
               No. of
              Positive
               Foods                             Positive    Negative     Overall
                as                              Predictive  Predictive   Percent
         Sex   Cutoff   Sensitivity Specificity   Value       Value    Agreement
          F       1           0.96        0.35        0.73        0.80        0.74
                  2           0.82        0.53        0.76        0.64        0.72
                  3           0.77        0.62        0.78        0.60        0.71
                  4           0.68        0.67        0.79        0.54        0.68
                  5           0.63        0.71        0.80        0.50        0.66
                  6           0.57        0.76        0.81        0.50        0.64
                  7           0.52        0.81        0.83        0.48        0.62
                  8           0.46        0.85        0.84        0.46         0.60
                  9           0.41        0.88        0.85        0.45         0.57
                 10           0.34        0.88        0.85        0.43         0.54
                 11           0.28        0.90        0.85        0.42         0.51
                 12           0.21        0.94        0.85        0.40         0.48
                 13           0.18        0.94        0.86        0.39         0.46
                 14           0.15        0.95        0.89        0.39         0.45
                 15           0.13         1.00        1.00       0.39         0.44
                 16           0.11         1.00        1.00       0.38         0.43
                 17           0.10         1.00        1.00       0.38         0.42
                 18           0.07         1.00        1.00       0.38         0.41
                 19           0.06         1.00        1.00       0.37         0.40
                 20           0.04         1.00        1.00       0.37         0.39
                 21           0.03         1.00        1.00       0.37         0.38
                 22           0.03         1.00        1.00       0.36         0.37
                 23           0.00         1.00        1.00       0.36         0.36
                 24           0.00         1.00        1.00       0.36         0.36
                                       Table 13
                                             46

WO 2016/077808                                                             PCT/US2015/060759
       Performance Metrics in Predicting IBS Status from Number of Positive Foods
               Using 90th Percentile of ELISA Signal to determine Positive
                No. of
               Positive
                Foods                            Positive    Negative   Overall
                 as                             Predictive Predictive   Percent
           Sex  Cutoff  Sensitivity Specificity   Value       Value    Agreement
            M      1          0.81        0.35       0.29        0.85        0.46
                  2           0.71        0.57       0.35        0.86        0.61
                  3           0.67        0.68       0.41        0.86       '0.68
                  4           0.62        0.75       0.45        0.86        0.72
                  5           0.53        0.80       0.48        0.84        0.74
                  6           0.47        0.85       0.50        0.83        0.76
                  7           0.39        0.88       0.50        0.82        0.76
                   8          0.30        0.90       0.50        0.80        0.75
                   9          0.25        0.92        0.50       0.79        0.75
                  10          0.18        0.93        0.43       0.78       -0.74
                  11          0.14        0.94        0.43       0.77        0.74
                  12          0.11        0.95        0.40       0.77        0.75
                  13          0.10        0.96        0.43       0.76        0.75
                  14          0.07        0.97        0.50       0.76        0.75
                  15          0.06        0.97        0.50       0.76        0.75
                  16          0.06        0.98        0.50       0.76        0.75
                  17          0.05        0.98        0.33       0.76        0.75
                  18          0.00        0.98        0.00       0.75        0.75
                  19          0.00        0.98        0.00       0.75        0.75
                  20          0.00        1.00        0.00       0.75        0.75
                  21          0.00        1.00        0.00       0.75        0.75
                  22          0.00        1.00        0.00       0.75        0.75
                  23          0.00        1.00        0.00       0.75.       0.75
                  24          0.00        1.00             .      0.75       0.75
                                      Table 14
                                             47

WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1.  A corn plant comprising at least a first set of the chromosomes of corn line SYY6S
    14NN18, a sample of seed of said line having been deposited under ATCC Accession
    Number PTA-124217.
2.  A corn seed comprising at least a first set of the chromosomes of corn line SYY6S
    14NN18, a sample of seed of said line having been deposited under ATCC Accession
    Number PTA-124217.
3.  The plant of claim 1, which is an inbred.
4.  The plant of claim 1, which is a hybrid.
5.  The seed of claim 2, which is an inbred.
6.  The seed of claim 2, which is a hybrid.
7.  The plant of claim 4, wherein the hybrid plant is corn hybrid SVSD7749, a sample of
    seed of said hybrid SVSD7749 having been deposited under ATCC Accession Number
    PTA-124116.
8.  The seed of claim 6, defined as a seed of corn hybrid SVSD7749, a sample of seed of
    said hybrid SVSD7749 having been deposited under ATCC Accession Number PTA
    124116.
9.  The seed of claim 2, defined as a seed of line SYY6S-14NN18.
10. A plant part of the plant of claim 1.
11. The plant part of claim 10, further defined as a leaf, an ovule, pollen, a fruit, or a cell.
12. A corn plant having all the physiological and morphological characteristics of the corn
    plant of claim 7.
13. A tissue culture of regenerable cells of the plant of claim 1.
14. The tissue culture according to claim 13, comprising cells or protoplasts from a plant part
    selected from the group consisting of embryos, meristems, cotyledons, pollen, leaves,
    anthers, roots, root tips, pistils, flowers, seeds, stalks, silks, tassels, kernels, ears, cobs,
    and husks.
                                             - 48 -

15. A corn plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 13.
16. A method of vegetatively propagating the corn plant of claim 1 comprising the steps of:
    (a)    collecting tissue capable of being propagated from the plant according to claim 1;
    (b)    cultivating said tissue to obtain proliferated shoots; and
    (c)    rooting said proliferated shoots to obtain rooted plantlets.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising growing at least a first corn plant from said
    rooted plantlets.
18. A method of introducing a trait into a corn line comprising:
    (a)    utilizing as a recurrent parent a plant of corn line SYY6S-14NN18, by crossing a
           plant of corn line SYY6S-14NN18 with a second donor corn plant that comprises
           a trait to produce Fi progeny, a sample of seed of said line having been deposited
           under ATCC Accession Number PTA-124217;
    (b)    selecting an Fi progeny that comprises the trait;
    (c)    backcrossing the selected Fi progeny with a plant of the same corn line used as
           the recurrent parent in step (a), to produce backcross progeny;
    (d)    selecting backcross progeny comprising the trait and the morphological and
           physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent corn line used in step (a); and
    (e)    repeating steps (c) and (d) three or more times to produce selected fourth or
           higher backcross progeny.
19. A corn plant produced by the method of claim 18.
20. A method of producing a corn plant comprising an added trait, the method comprising
    introducing a transgene conferring the trait into a plant of corn hybrid SVSD7749 or corn
    line SYY6S-14NN18,      a sample of seed of said hybrid and line having been deposited
    under ATCC Accession Number PTA-124116 and ATCC Accession Number PTA
    124217, respectively.
21. A corn plant produced by the method of claim 20.
                                             - 49 -

22. A corn plant comprising at least a first set of the chromosomes of corn line SYY6S
    14NN18, a sample of seed of said line having been deposited under ATCC Accession
    Number PTA-124217, further comprising a transgene.
23. The plant of claim 22, wherein the transgene confers a trait selected from the group
    consisting of male sterility, herbicide tolerance, insect resistance, pest resistance, disease
    resistance, modified fatty acid metabolism, environmental stress tolerance, modified
    carbohydrate metabolism, and modified protein metabolism.
24. A corn plant comprising at least a first set of the chromosomes of corn line SYY6S
    14NN18, a sample of seed of said line having been deposited under ATCC Accession
    Number PTA-124217, further comprising a single locus conversion.
25. The plant of claim 24, wherein the single locus conversion confers a trait selected from
    the group consisting of male sterility, herbicide tolerance, insect resistance, pest
    resistance, disease resistance, modified fatty acid metabolism, environmental stress
    tolerance, modified carbohydrate metabolism, and modified protein metabolism.
26. A method for producing a seed of a corn plant derived from at least one of corn hybrid
    SVSD7749 or corn line SYY6S-14NN18 comprising the steps of:
    (a)     crossing a corn plant of hybrid SVSD7749 or line SYY6S-14NN18 with itself or
            a second corn plant, a sample of seed of said hybrid and line having been
            deposited under ATCC Accession Number PTA-124116 and ATCC Accession
            Number PTA-124217, respectively; and
    (b)     allowing seed of a hybrid SVSD7749 or line SYY6S-14NN1 8-derived corn plant
            to form.
27. A method of producing a seed of a hybrid SVSD7749 or line SYY6S-14NN18-derived
    corn plant comprising the steps of:
    (a)     producing a hybrid SVSD7749 or line SYY6S-14NN18-derived corn plant from a
            seed produced by crossing a corn plant of hybrid SVSD7749 or line SYY6S
            14NN18 with itself or a second corn plant, a sample of seed of said hybrid and
            line having been deposited under ATCC Accession Number PTA-124116 and
            ATCC Accession Number PTA-124217, respectively; and
                                            - 50 -

    (b)     crossing the hybrid SVSD7749 or line SYY6S-14NN18-derived corn plant with
            itself or a different corn plant to obtain a seed of a further hybrid SVSD7749 or
            line SYY6S-14NN18-derived corn plant.
28. The method of claim 27, further comprising repeating said producing and crossing steps
    of (a) and (b) using a seed from said step (b) for producing a plant according to step (a)
    for at least one generation to produce a seed of an additional hybrid SVSD7749 or line
    SYY6S-14NN18-derived corn plant.
29. A plant part of the plant of claim 7.
30. The plant part of claim 29, further defined as a leaf, a flower, a fruit, an ovule, pollen, or
    a cell.
31. A method of producing a corn seed comprising crossing the plant of claim 1 with itself or
    a second corn plant and allowing seed to form.
32. A method of producing an ear of corn comprising:
    (a)     obtaining the plant according to claim 1, wherein the plant has been cultivated to
            maturity; and
    (b)     collecting an ear of corn from the plant.
                                             -51 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
