Abstract
        The invention generally relates to methods for manufacturing components for use in
a device (200) for generating substantially planar micrografts. The methods of the invention
provide for the manufacture of substantially uniform components for a cutter (202) contained
within the device, the cutter configured to cut a blister in order to produce a substantially
planar graft.
                                            Figure 2A

                         2/9
200
         213     212
                            211
                                       201
     211
             ---          212
                                   202
    218
                       -     -  -203
                         218
                     FIGURE 2A

                                                    1
      METHODS OF MANUFACTURING DEVICES FOR GENERATING SKIN GRAFTS
Reference to Related Applications
[0001]            The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2012347592, whose specification as filed is herein incorporated by reference
in its entirety. Australian Patent Application No. 2012347592 claims the benefit of and
priority to U.S. Nonprovisional Application No. 13/346,329, filed January 9, 2012, which
claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/567,946, filed
December 7, 2011, the contents of each of which are herein incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
Field of the Invention
[0002]            The invention generally relates to devices for generating and transferring
substantially planar skin grafts.
Background of the Invention
[0003]            Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way
be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0004]            Skin is the largest organ of the human body, representing approximately
16% of a person's total body weight. Because it interfaces with the environment, skin acts
as an anatomical barrier to pathogens and other environmental substances. Skin also
provides a semi-permeable barrier that prevents excessive fluid loss while ensuring that
essential nutrients are not washed out of the body. Other functions of skin include
insulation, temperature regulation, and sensation. Skin tissue may be subject to many forms
of damage, including burns, trauma, disease, and depigmentation (e.g., vitiligo).
[0005]            Skin grafts are often used to repair skin damage. Traditional skin grafting is
a surgical procedure in which a section of skin is removed from one area of a person's body
(autograft), removed from another human source (allograft), or removed from another animal
(xenograft), and transplanted to a recipient site of a patient, such as a wound site. As with
any surgical procedure, skin grafting involves certain risks. Complications may include graft
failure, rejection of the skin graft, infections at donor or recipient site, or autograft donor sites
oozing fluid and blood as they heal. Certain of these complications (e.g., graft failure and

                                                   2
rejection of the skin graft) may be mitigated by using an autograft instead of an allograft or a
xenograft.
[0006]            A problem encountered when using an autograft is that skin is taken from
another area of a person's body to produce the graft, resulting in trauma and wound
generation at the donor site. Generally, the size of the graft matches the size of the recipient
site, and thus a large recipient site requires removal of a large section of skin from a donor
site, leading to increased pain and discomfort and longer healing time. Additionally, as the
size of the section of skin removed from the donor site increases, so does the possibility of
infection.
[0007]            Moreover, skin grafts are often difficult to obtain due to the tendency of the
skin layer being cut to curl or fold over onto itself or the surgical instrument (e.g.,
dermatome), thereby comprising the integrity of the graft and making it unsuitable for use.
This folding/curling tendency is particularly problematic the thinner the layer is that is being
obtained, such as the epidermal layer.
[0008]            While techniques have been developed for obtaining smaller micrografts that
can be transferred onto a substrate for expansion prior to transplantation, such micrografts
tend to clump together or can flip or fold during cutting, thereby comprising the integrity of
the micrograft such that it will not properly grow on the substrate. As such, multiple cutting
attempts are often necessary before a suitable, planar graft or micrograft is obtained,
thereby producing multiple wound sites, leading to extreme discomfort, longer healing time,
and a greater risk of infection.
[0009]            It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
[0010]            The invention provides methods for manufacturing components for use in
devices for producing skin graft material. The invention provides manufacturing methods for
creating plates, preferably metallic plates, for use in preparing skin grafts. Manufacturing
methods as described herein are useful to fabricate plates for use in devices as described
below.

                                                   3
[0011]            One aspect of the invention provides a method for manufacturing a plurality
of plates for use in a device for obtaining a skin graft, said method comprising the steps of:
                  obtaining a plurality of plates, at least one of said plates comprising a
substantially uniform thickness;
                  forming a plurality of openings in said plates such that the openings align
upon stacking said plates, wherein at least one of the plates comprises one or more
openings that form a cutting edge or surface;
                  forming a plurality of coupling members capable of creating one or more
frangible linkages between said at least one plate having openings that form a cutting edge
or surface and at least one other plate, whereby the openings of said plate and the at least
one other plate are in alignment prior to use; and
                  attaching said plate having openings that form a cutting edge or surface to
said at least one other plate via said coupling members to form one or more frangible
linkages therebetween, wherein at least one frangible linkage is configured to break in
response to application of a lateral force to at least one of the plates to allow relative
movement thereof.
[0012]            Another aspect of the invention provides a method for manufacturing a
plurality of plates for use in a device for obtaining a skin graft, said method comprising the
steps of:
                  obtaining a plurality of plates, at least one of said plates comprising a
substantially uniform thickness;
                  forming a plurality of openings in said plates such that the openings align
upon stacking said plates; and
                  forming a plurality of coupling members in at least one of said plates,
wherein said coupling members do not substantially alter said uniform thickness and are
capable of creating a frangible linkage between at least two of said plates.
[0013]            Methods of the invention result in plates for use in harvesting skin grafts
produced by the application of blistering to a donor site. Methods of the invention involve the
generation of a plurality of plates having substantially planar mating surfaces from a
material, preferably a metallic material. Preferably, at least one of the plates has
substantially uniform thickness throughout the plate. In certain embodiments, each of the
plurality of plates has a substantially uniform thickness throughout each plate and/or with
respect to each other. The plurality of plates can be generated from the same material, or
different materials.

                                                  4
[0014]            A plurality of coupling members for coupling the plurality of plates together in
a stacked configuration are preferably generated from the same material as at least one or
more of the plate members such that the coupling members are substantially uniform in
thickness with respect to each other and the at least one plate member, and contain
substantially the same planar surface with respect to each other and the at least one of the
plate member.
[0015]            According to one embodiment of the invention, a plurality plates are
manufactured from the same sheet stock of material. For example, a single sheet stock of
material is divided into a plurality of sections having uniform shape and size with respect to
each other, each section corresponding to an individual plate member. At least one opening
(e.g. hole or slot) is formed in each of the plate members such that the openings are in
concentric alignment when the plate members are assembled in a stacked configuration.
[0016]            In certain embodiments, the plurality of coupling members for coupling the
plate members together in a stacked configuration are also formed from the same sheet
stock from which the plate members are generated. Fabrication of the coupling members
does not substantially change the planar surface of the plates, such that the plates are
stackable in a form-fitting manner and subsequently movable with respect to one another.
The coupling members are disposed between the plate members. The coupling members
can be disposed along the outer surface of the plate members, or between one or more
openings (e.g., holes or slots) formed within each plate. In certain embodiments, the
coupling members form a frangible section between the plates that is broken upon
movement of the plates with respect to each other in operation, as described below.
Optionally, a portion of the plate material at or around the site of the coupling is removed to
accommodate at least a portion of the coupling member and forming a depression at or
around the frangible section.
[0017]            Preferred methods for fabricating plates for use in skin graft generator
devices involve obtaining one or more plates of substantially uniform thickness and forming
holes in the plates that align upon stacking. Plates preferably have integrated coupling
members that do not substantially alter the thickness of the plates and allow for coupling of
the plates via a frangible linkage. In operation, the plates are moved in order to break the
coupling and to cut a graft from a skin blister formed by the device into which the plates are
placed. Preferably, there are three plates, with a central plate having openings (e.g., holes
or slots) that form a cutting surface. In operation, the plates are moved such that the cutting
surface interacts with blisters protruding through aligned openings in a plate below. Ideally,

                                                 5
coupling members are substantially uniform in shape and size and the frangible linkage is
laser welded, but may also be a mechanical stamp, a mechanical punch, a weld, epoxy or
other adhesive, formed via mechanical compression, snap fit, tongue and groove, post and
bar, frangible pin or other known connectors.
[0018]            Plates manufactured as described herein are useful in a device for reliably
generating skin micrografts in a single attempt. A device of the invention in one embodiment
is configured to generate a plurality of substantially planar micrografts in a single cutting
motion. Devices of certain embodiments of the invention are further capable of
simultaneously transferring generated micrografts onto a substrate. Devices of some
embodiments of the invention are particularly well-suited for generating and transferring a
plurality of substantially planar epidermal micrografts.
[0019]            In certain embodiments, the invention provides a device that includes a body
having a bottom surface configured for placement on skin, a mechanism for raising at least
one blister on the skin, and a cutter configured to cut formed blisters in order to produce
grafts for transplantation.
[0020]           The cutter may include a plurality of plates, each plate having an array of
openings (e.g., an array of holes or slots). In certain embodiments the openings are
substantially cylindrical in shape. The openings in the arrays are of a size to facilitate
production of a plurality of grafts from formed blisters. The openings can range in size from
about 1 mm to about 12 mm diameter. In a particular embodiment, the openings are no
greater than about 2 mm in diameter.
[0021]           At least one of the plates is movable relative to the other plates. The plurality
of plates in the cutter are configured such that a substantially planar graft (i.e., one that is not
curled, folded or clumped) is produced.
[0022]           The mechanism for raising the at least one skin blister can be a vacuum
source, a heat source (e.g., a light source or warm air), or a combination of both.
[0023]           Once the blister(s) is generated, a removable substrate is applied to the
blister simultaneously transfer/retain the blister upon cutting. The substrate can include an
adhesive to facilitate attachment of the blister to the substrate.

                                                6
[0024]            The device of the invention may further include a strap for securely coupling
the device against a skin surface such as the inner thigh or buttocks. The strap may be
adjustable in size, or may be a fixed size. In certain embodiments, the strap is a belt/loop
fastener. In other embodiments, the strap is a metal or plastic cuff configured to for
attachment around the upper thigh.
[0025]            In another embodiment, the invention provides a device for obtaining a skin
graft that includes a hollow body having a bottom surface configured for placement on skin,
a mechanism for raising at least one blister, and a plurality of plates, each plate including an
array of holes configured so as to maintain the integrity of a graft produced by cutting the
raised blister.
[0026]            In certain embodiments the openings in the hole array of each plate are
substantially cylindrical in shape and are of a size to facilitate production of a substantially
planar graft. For example, the holes can range in size from 1 mm to a 12 mm diameter, or
any specific value in between such range. In a particular embodiment, the openings in the
hole arrays are no greater than about 2 mm in diameter.
[0027]            The mechanism for raising the at least one skin blister can be a vacuum
source, a heat source (e.g., a light source or warm air), or a combination of both.
[0028]            A substrate removably connected to the body of the device directly contacts
the generated blister(s) such that upon cutting of the blister, the cut portion of skin is
attached to the substrate.
[0029]            The substrate can include an adhesive to facilitate attachment of the blister
to the substrate.
[0030]            The device may further include a strap for securely coupling the device
against a skin surface such as the inner thigh or buttocks. The strap may be adjustable in
size, or may be a fixed size. In certain embodiments, the strap is a belt/loop fastener. In
other embodiments, the strap is a metal or plastic cuff configured to for attachment around
the upper thigh.
[0031]            In yet another embodiment, the invention provides a cutting device that
includes a first plate having at least one opening, a second plate having at least one
opening, the second plate being attached to said first plate, and a third plate having at least

                                                  7
one opening, the third plate being attached to said second plate. At least one of the plates is
movable with respect to the other plates. For example, the second plate may be movable
with respect to the first and/or third plates. In other embodiments, the third plate may be
stationary in operation with respect to at least one of said first and second plates. In certain
embodiments, the second plate is attached to said first plate via at least one frangible
section. The frangible section is broken upon movement of said plates with respect to each
other. The frangible coupling of the plate members to each other can be accomplished using
a mechanical stamping technique, a mechanical punch technique, spot welding, an epoxy,
an adhesive, mechanical compression, a snap-fit assembly, a tongue and groove assembly,
a post and bar assembly, a frangible pin, or any combination thereof.
[0032]           At least one of the openings in the first, second or third plate defines a
cutting surface. In certain embodiments, the cutting surface on one of the plates engages a
cutting surface on at least one other of said plates in operation (i.e., when at least one of the
plates is moved with respect to the other plates). In certain embodiments, the opening in at
least one of the plates moves with respect to the openings in at least another of said plates,
thereby to perform a cutting action.
[0033]           In certain embodiments, the first, second and third plates each include a
plurality of openings that are concentrically aligned with respect to each other in a home
position, and offset with respect to each other in an operating position (i.e., when at least
one of the plates moves respect to the other plates).
[0034]           These and other aspects of the devices of the invention are described in the
figures, description and claims that follow.
[0035]           Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense
of "including, but not limited to".
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0036]           Figure 1 is a drawing showing the anatomy of skin.
[0037]           Figures 2A is a schematic depicting the components of an exemplary
embodiment of a blister harvesting device according to the invention; Figure 2B is a

                                                 8
schematic depicting the components of an exemplary embodiment of a blister generation
module for coupling with the blister harvesting device of Figure 2A.
[0038]             Figures 3A-3C are schematics depicting the assembly procedure of the
components depicted in Figures 2A and 2B.
[0039]                   Figure 4 is a schematic depicting the components of an exemplary
embodiment of a cutter assembly for use in the devices according to the invention.
[0040]             Figure 5A is a schematic depicting an exemplary embodiment of a device
according to the invention in a blister generation mode; Figure 5B is a schematic depicting
an exemplary embodiment of a device according to the invention in a blister harvesting
mode.
[0041]             Figures 6A-6C are schematics depicting the blister generation steps using
the device mode depicted in Figure 5A.
[0042]             Figure 7A-7C are schematics depicting the blister harvesting steps using the
device mode depicted in Figure 5B.
Detailed Description
[0043]            The skin consists of 2 layers. The outer layer, or epidermis, is derived from
ectoderm, and the thicker inner layer, or dermis, is derived from mesoderm. The epidermis
constitutes about 5% of the skin, and the remaining 95% is dermis. FIG. 1 provides a
diagram showing the anatomy of skin. The skin varies in thickness depending on anatomic
location, gender, and age of the individual. The epidermis, the more external of the two
layers, is a stratified squamous epithelium consisting primarily of melanocytes and
keratinocytes in progressive stages of differentiation from deeper to more superficial layers.
The epidermis has no blood vessels; thus, it must receive nutrients by diffusion from the
underlying dermis through the basement membrane, which separates the two layers.
[0044]             Recently, research has shown that pluripotent stem cells are also located in
the epidermal layer (Balaji et a., Biology and Medicine, 2(2): 57-67 (2010)). Epidermal
grafting has been demonstrated in the literature to have significant applications in a number
of different indications, including wound-care and vitiligo. However, epidermal grafting is

                                                    9
difficult to perform in practice due to the extreme thinness (100 microns) and wet
consistency of the tissue, as well as concerns regarding donor-site morbidity.
[0045]             The dermis is a more complex structure. It is composed of 2 layers, the more
superficial papillary dermis and the deeper reticular dermis. The papillary dermis is thinner,
including loose connective tissue that contains capillaries, elastic fibers, reticular fibers, and
some collagen. The reticular dermis includes a thicker layer of dense connective tissue
containing larger blood vessels, closely interlaced elastic fibers, and coarse, branching
collagen fibers arranged in layers parallel to the surface. The reticular layer also contains
fibroblasts, mast cells, nerve endings, lymphatics, and some epidermal appendages.
Surrounding the components of the dermis is the gel-like ground substance composed of
mucopolysaccharides (primarily hyaluronic acid), chondroitin sulfates, and glycoproteins.
[0046]             In a graft, the characteristics of the donor site that are more likely to be
maintained after grafting to a recipient site is a function of the thickness of the dermal
component of the graft. However, thicker grafts require more favorable conditions for
survival due to the requirement for increased revascularization. It has been discovered,
however, that a substantially epidermal graft according to certain embodiments of the
invention is more likely to adapt to the characteristics of the recipient site, presumably due to
the presence of pluripotent stem cells in the epidermal layer.
             Integrated Devices for Generating and Transferring Micrografts
[0047]             In one aspect, an embodiment of the invention relates to an integrated
device for generating micrografts and transferring micrografts. More specifically, the
embodiment of the invention relates to a device for generating substantially planar
micrografts and for preparing a surgical dressing to facilitate presentation of the micrografts
to a patient in need thereof. The device of this embodiment of the invention can be used to
prepare any type of skin graft, such as an epidermal skin graft, a split thickness graft, or a
full thickness graft. However, the device of this embodiment of the invention is particularly
well suited for preparing skin grafts including only or substantially only the epidermal layer of
skin. The device of the invention can be used for autografts, allografts, or xenografts. In
preferred embodiments, the grafts are autografts.
[0048]             Referring now to FIGS. 2A and 2B, device 200 includes a top housing 201, a
cutter assembly 202 and a base housing 203. The top housing includes a rotatable handle
213 that is coupled to the cutter assembly 202. The top housing further includes a strap 211

                                                 10
for coupling the device 200 (once assembled) against a skin surface. The strap may be
adjustable in size, or may be a fixed size. The top housing 201 is configured to removably
receive a blister generation module 210 that includes a blister generation device 204 and an
adaptor plate 205 (FIG. 2B).
[0049]           FIGS 3A-3C depict the assembly of device 200. As shown in FIG. 3A, cutter
assembly 202 is inserted into top housing 201. Top housing 201 is then coupled to base
housing 203 via one or more threaded screws 212 that are received by a corresponding
threaded holes 218 in base housing 203, such that cutter assembly 202 is disposed in
between top housing 201 and bottom housing 203 (FIG. 3B). As shown in FIG. 3C, the
blister generation module 210 is then inserted into top housing 201. In certain embodiments,
the bottom of adaptor plate 205 that interfaces with top housing 201 includes a gasket
around the bottom perimeter of the plate 205 to create an airtight seal between adaptor
plate 205 and top housing 201 when coupled together. The blister generation device 204 of
the blister generation module 210 is coupled to an opening 205a within adaptor plate 205. In
certain embodiments, a gasket is disposed within opening 205a to form an airtight seal
between blister generation device 204 and adaptor plate 205 when coupled together.
[0050]           Referring now to FIG. 4, the cutter assembly 202 of device 200 is shown.
The cutter assembly 202 includes a bottom plate 202a, a middle plate 202b, and a top plate
202c, each of which include an array of openings 214 (e.g., holes or slots) (sometimes
referred to herein as hole array 214). One or more openings of the hole array 214 in the
bottom 202a, middle 202b and/or top 202c plates define a cutting edge or surface 215.
Preferably one or more openings in the hole array 214 of at least the middle plate 202b
define a cutting edge or surface 215 (FIG. 4). The three plates are assembled in a stacked
configuration with the middle plate 202b being coupled to the bottom plate 202a, and the top
plate 202c being coupled to the middle plate 202b. One or more of plates 202a, 202b and
202c are configured to be movable in a lateral direction relative to each other. For example,
the middle plate 202b may be laterally movable relative to the bottom plate 202a, the top
plate 202c, or both. The top plate 202c may be movable relative to the middle plate 202b,
the bottom plate 202a, or both. In certain embodiments, the one of more of plates 202a,
202b and 202c are configured to laterally move within a fixed distance relative to each other.
[0051]           The middle plate 202b and/or top plate 202c can be coupled to their
respective plates in the stacked configuration via at least one frangible section which serves
to keep the plates in alignment until a lateral force is applied to the middle 202b and/or top
202c plate, which breaks the frangible section(s) and allows lateral movement of the plates

                                                 11
relative to each other. In a particular embodiment, at least the middle plate 202b is coupled
to the bottom plate 202a via at least one frangible section. The at least one frangible section
is configured to break when a lateral force is applied to the middle plate 202b, allowing the
middle plate 202b to move in a lateral direction relative to the bottom plate 202a, the top
plate 202c, or both. Preferably, middle plate 202b is configured to laterally move within a
fixed distance relative to the bottom plate 202a and/or top plate 202c. In a particular
embodiment, the middle plate 202b includes one or more grooves or channels 216 that are
configured to receive a pin 217 vertically extending from bottom plate 202a. Pin 217 is
received at one end of channel 216 when the frangible section is intact, and laterally slides
within channel 216 to the opposite end when the frangible section is broken, such that the
lateral movement of plate 202b relative to plate 202a and/or 202c is fixed by the movement
of pin 217 within channel 216.
[0052]            One or more coupling members can be disposed between the plates to form
the frangible sections, as described in further detail below. The one or more coupling
members are disposed between the openings within hole array 214. Alternatively, the one
or more coupling members are disposed between the plates outside of hole array 214. The
frangible coupling of the plate members to each other can be accomplished using a
mechanical stamping technique, a mechanical punch technique, spot welding, photo etching,
an epoxy, an adhesive, mechanical compression, a snap-fit assembly, a tongue and groove
assembly, a post and bar assembly, a frangible pin, or any combination thereof.
[0053]            In certain embodiments, the middle plate 202b and/or top plate 202c can be
coupled to their respective plates in the stacked configuration via at least one elastic
member or spring member which serves to keep the plates in alignment until a lateral force
is applied to the middle 202b and/or top 202c plate, which allows the elastic/spring
section(s) to flex and allows lateral movement of the plates relative to each other. Upon
removal of the lateral force, the elastic/spring sections relax, which allows the plates to
return to their original positions such that the hole arrays 214 between the plates are once
again in concentric alignment. The one or more elastic coupling members or spring
members can be disposed between the openings within hole array 214. Alternatively, the
one or more elastic coupling members or spring members can be disposed between the
plates outside of hole array 214.
[0054]            Preferably, the hole arrays 214 of the bottom 202a, middle 202b and top
202c plates include holes that are substantially similar in size and substantially cylindrical in
shape. The size of the holes in each hole array 214 will depend on the size of the graft

                                                 12
needed, with larger holes being used in each plate to produce larger grafts. In certain
embodiments, the holes in the hole array 214 range between 1 mm and 12 mm in diameter,
or any specific value in between. For example, the diameter of the holes in the hole array
214 of one or more of plates 202a, 202b and 202c can be 1 mm, 1.5 mm, 2 mm, 2.5 mm, 3
mm, 3.5 mm, 4 mm, 4.5 mm, 5 mm, 5.5 mm, 6 mm, 6.5 mm, 7 mm, 7.5 mm, 8 mm, 8.5 mm,
9 mm, 9.5 mm, 10 mm, 10.5 mm, 11 mm, 11.5 mm or 12 mm. In certain embodiments, the
holes in hole array 214 vary in size and/or shape between the bottom plate 202a, middle
plate 202b and/or top plate 202c. Once plates 202a, 202b and 202c of cutter assembly 202
are assembled (i.e., in the stacked configuration), the hole array 214 of each of plates 202a,
202b, and 202c are aligned. In a particular embodiment, hole arrays 214 of plates 202a,
202b, and 202c are concentrically aligned.
[0055]            The device 200 has two modes of operation: 1) a blister generation mode
(FIG. 5A); and 2) a blister harvesting mode (FIG. 5B). As shown in FIG. 5A, the blister
generation mode includes the assembly with the blister generation module 210. The blister
generation module 210 is removed from the device assembly for blister harvesting mode
(FIG. 5B). To produce and harvest a plurality of substantially planar micrografts, device 200
in the blister generation mode (i.e., with blister generation module 210, as shown in FIG.
5A), is placed on a donor site 220 such as an inner thigh of a patient (FIG. 6A). Strap 211 is
used to keep the device 200 in place against the skin surface of donor site 220. The blister
generation device 204 is activated by turning/cranking handle 204a of blister generation
device 204. The blister generation device 204 utilizes a vacuum component, a heating
component, or a combination thereof, for raising skin blisters. An exemplary heating
component is a light source. In a particular embodiment, mechanism is a combination of a
vacuum component and a heating component.
[0056]            In certain embodiments, the blister generation device 204 is a suction blister
device for suction blister grafting. Suction blister grafting involves raising a skin blister, and
then cutting off the raised blister. An exemplary suction blister grafting technique is shown in
Awad, (Dermatol Surg, 34(9):1186-1193, 2008), the content of which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety. This article also shows various devices used to form suction
blisters. A suction blister device is also described in Kennedy et al. (U.S. 6,071,247), the
content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. An exemplary device is
the commercially available Negative Pressure Cutaneous Suction System from Electronic
Diversities (Finksburg, MD).

                                                 13
[0057]            A device for raising a suction blister typically operates by use of suction
chambers that are attached to a patient's skin. An instrument typically contains a power
source, a vacuum pump, temperature controls and all related controls to operate multiple
suction chambers. The suction chambers are connected to the console by a flexible
connection. Each of the chambers is controlled by a preset temperature control to provide an
optimal skin warming temperature. Both chambers share an adjustable common vacuum
source that affects all chambers equally.
[0058]            The chamber heating system provides a slight warming of an orifice plate of
the device, which is in direct contact with the patient's skin surface. The negative pressure
chamber is fabricated of mostly plastic components, with two removable threaded caps. The
upper cap is fitted with a clear viewing lens so that the actual blister formation can be
observed. The opposite end of the chamber is fitted with a removable orifice plate that is
placed on the patient's skin. Since this plate is simply threaded onto the chamber end,
multiple plates with different opening patterns can be interchanged as desired.
[0059]            The interior of the device is warmed and illuminated by an array of low
voltage incandescent lamps. This lamp array is controlled from the instrument console
temperature controller, cycling as needed, to maintain the set point temperature. The heat
from these lamps is radiated and conducted to the orifice plate, which then warms the
patient's skin. The chamber is connected to the console via a composite vacuum and low
voltage electrical system. Quick connections are used for the vacuum and electrical system
to facilitate removal and storage.
[0060]            The Negative Pressure Instrument console is a self-contained fan cooled
unit which is designed to operate on 120 VAC 60 Hz power. Vacuum is supplied by an
industrial quality diaphragm type vacuum pump, capable of a typical vacuum of 20 in Hg (0
65 kpa) at 0 CFM. An analog controller that is preset to 40      0C  provides the temperature
control for each suction chamber. This provides accurate control of the orifice plate
temperature. The instrument console has internal adjustments that allow the user to
recalibrate the temperature setting if desired. Other temperatures can be preset if desired.
The front panel includes a vacuum gauge and vacuum bleeder adjustment to regulate the
vacuum to both chambers. The console front panel also contains the connections for the
chamber assemblies.
[0061]            The application of a moderate negative pressure from the blister generation
device 204 causes the patients skin to be gently drawn through the concentrically aligned

                                                  14
hole arrays 214 of plates 202a, 202b and 202c in cutter assembly 202 (FIG. 6B). Such
action results in generation of a plurality of raised microblisters 221, particularly epidermal
microblisters. The blisters 221 may or may not be fluid-filled. The plurality of suction blisters
221 generated are of uniform size, approximately the size of the openings/holes in the hole
arrays 214 of the three plates of cutter assembly 202, and are uniformly spaced in
accordance with the configuration of the holes in hole array 214, such that a plurality of
substantially planar microblisters 221 are generated. The skin and blister area is generally
not damaged and patient discomfort is minimal.
[0062]           Once the substantially planar microblisters 221 are raised/generated the
device is converted into the blister harvesting mode by removing the blister generation
module 210 from the top housing 201, thereby exposing the hole array 214 in the top plate
202c of cutter assembly 202. At least a portion of the raised microblisters 221 protrude
through the top of the hole array 214, as shown in FIGS. 6B and 6C. A substrate 219 is
applied to the surface of hole array 214, as shown in FIGS. 5B and 7A, such that the
substrate 219 is in direct contact with the raised blisters 221.
[0063]           To cut the raised blisters 221, handle 213 is rotated in a clockwise or
counterclockwise direction (FIG. 7B). Handle 213 is coupled to the middle plate 202b of
cutter assembly 202 in a configuration that translates the rotational movement of the handle
213 into lateral movement of middle plate 202b. The lateral force applied to middle plate
202b by handle 213 causes middle plate 202b to move in a lateral direction relative to
bottom plate 202a and/or top plate 202c, thereby disrupting the alignment of the hole arrays
214 between plates 202a, 202b and 202c. The lateral displacement of the hole array 214 of
middle plate 202b causes the cutting surface 215 defined by one or more holes in the hole
array 214 to cut the raised blisters 221. As the raised blisters 221 are cut, they are
simultaneously transferred/retained on substrate 219 in the same configuration as generated
within hole array 214, resulting in a substrate containing a plurality of micrografts that are
uniformly spaced and oriented on the substrate 219 (i.e., a substrate containing a plurality of
substantially planar micrografts).
[0064]           Certain embodiments of device 200 integrate consumable/single-use
components (e.g., substrate 219 and/or cutter assembly 202) and re-usable, sterilizable or
cleaned components (e.g., top housing 201, base housing 203 and blister generation
module 210), thereby providing a reliable system that is easy to maintain. All components of
device 200 that come into contact with the donor and/or recipient tissue (both single-use and
reusable components) must be sterile/sterilized to reduce the risk of infection.

                                                   15
[0065]            In certain embodiments, substrate 219 includes an adhesive on one side that
facilitates attachment of the blisters to the substrate. The substrate material may have
intrinsic adhesive properties, or alternatively, a side of the substrate may be treated with an
adhesive material, e.g., an adhesive spray such as LEUKOSPRAY (Beiersdoerf GmbH,
Germany). The substrate may be a deformable non-resilient material. A deformable non
resilient material refers to a material that may be manipulated, e.g., stretched or expanded,
from a first configuration to a second configuration, and once in the second configuration,
there is no residual stress on the substrate. Such materials may be stretched to an
expanded configuration without returning to their original size. Such deformable non
resilient materials tend to be soft, stiff or both soft and stiff. Softness is measured on the
durometer scale. An example of such a material is a soft polyurethane. A soft polyurethane
is produced is as follows. Polyurethanes in general usually have soft and hard segments.
The hard segments are due to the presence of phenyl bridges. In a soft polyurethane, the
phenyl bridge is switched out for an aliphatic, which is more flexible as its 6 carbon ring has
no double bonds. Therefore, all the segments are soft. On the Durometer Scale, a soft
polyethylene is rated about Shore 80A. Other materials suitable for use with the device 200
of the embodiment of the invention include low density polyethylene, linear low density
polyethylene, polyester copolymers, polyamide copolymers, and certain silicones. In a
particular embodiment, the substrate 219 is Tegaderm T M .
[0066]            Ultimately, the substrate containing the plurality of uniformly spaced and
oriented (i.e., substantially planar) micrografts is applied to a recipient of site of a patient.
Prior to applying the grafts to the recipient site, the site is prepared to receive the grafts
using any technique known in the art. Necrotic, fibrotic or avascular tissue should be
removed. The technique used to prepare the site will depend on damage to the recipient
site. For example, epidermal tissue, if present at the recipient site, can be removed to
prepare the area for receiving the micrografts. Burned or ulcerated sites may not need
removal of epidermal tissue, although some cleaning of the site or other preparation of the
site may be performed. Wounds should be debrided and then allowed to granulate for
several days prior to applying the graft. Most of the granulation tissue should be removed
since it has a tendency to harbor bacteria. Applying silver sulfadiazine to the wound for 10
days prior to grafting reduces the bacterial count greatly.
[0067]            The size of the area at the recipient site can be about the same size as the
area of the substrate having micrografts adhered thereto. This size generally will be greater
than the area of the original graft tissue that was removed from the donor site to form the
micrografts. The depigmented or damaged skin can be dermabraded with sandpaper or

                                                 16
another rough material. Alternatively, the epidermal tissue can be removed from the
recipient site by forming one or more blisters over the area to be treated, e.g., a suction
blister or a freezing blister, and the raised epidermal blister tissue can then be removed by
cutting or another procedure.
[0068]            The substrate having the substantially planar micrografts can be placed over
the area to be treated to form a dressing. A portion of the substrate having the micrografts
can be positioned over the area to be repaired, e.g., the area from which the epidermal
tissue has been abraded or removed for repigmentation. The substrate can be fixed in place
over the treatment area, e.g., using tape or the like. The substrate can be removed after
sufficient time has elapsed to allow attachment and growth of the micrografts in the
treatment area, e.g., several days to a few weeks.
            Manufacturing Uniform Components for Use in Integrated Devices of the Invention
[0069]            The invention further relates to methods for manufacturing uniform
components for use in the integrated devices of the invention.
[0070]            In order to generate substantially planar micrografts, the components within
cutter assembly 202 must be substantially uniform with respect to one another. In particular,
the planar surfaces of the components within cutter assembly 202 must be substantially
uniform.
[0071]            In certain embodiments one or more coupling members are used to create a
frangible coupling between at least two of plate members 202a, 202b and 202c. The
coupling members are disposed between two or more of the plate members to form a
frangible section that is broken upon movement of said plates with respect to each other, as
previously described. The tolerance for any inconsistencies between the planar surfaces of
the coupling members and one or more of the plate members and/or inconsistent
dimensions (e.g., width) between the coupling members and one or more of the plate
members is very low and could result in non-planar, non-uniform micrografts and device
malfunction.
[0072]            Inconsistencies between the planar surfaces of different stocks of sheet
material, manufacturing methods of blanks for the coupling members and/or plates, and
finishing methods of the coupling members and/or plates can each increase tolerance
stackups beyond an acceptable level, thereby decreasing the efficiency and function of

                                                17
device and resulting in micrografts that are unusable, and increase patient
discomfort/distress.
[0073]            The accumulated variations in production dimensions of the coupling
members, variations in production dimensions of the plate members, and variation in the
spacing between plate members, can each increase tolerance stackups and decrease
device function. In order to optimize the tolerances within the cutter assembly 202, the
plurality of coupling members are preferably formed from the same sheet stock of material
as at least one plate member in the cutter assembly 202. In a particular embodiment, the
plurality of coupling members and at least middle plate member 202b in cutter assembly 202
are preferably formed from the same sheet stock of material (e.g., a single sheet stock of
material). Forming the coupling members and the middle plate member 202b from the same
sheet stock ensures a uniform thickness between the coupling members and between the
coupling members and plate member 202b, and ensures uniform, planar mating surfaces
between the coupling members and plate member 202b, thereby decreasing tolerance
stackups within cutter assembly 202 and ensuring proper device function.
[0074]            Plate members 202a, 202b, and 202c can be formed from the same
material, or different materials with respect to each other, so long as the materials used
result in substantially planar mating surfaces between the three plates. Preferably, plate
members 202a, 202b, and 202c are formed from a metallic material (e.g., the same metallic
material, or different metallic materials).
[0075]            In certain embodiments, each of plate member 202a, 202b, and 202c is
formed from the same sheet stock of material, preferably a single sheet stock of material.
One or more openings (e.g., holes or slots) are formed within each plate member to form
hole arrays 214 that align when the plate members are assembled, as previously described.
In certain embodiments, the coupling members are formed from the same sheet stock from
which the plurality of plate members are generated. Forming the coupling members and
plate members from the same sheet stock ensures uniformity in the thickness among and
between the coupling members and plate members, and uniformly planar mating surfaces
between the coupling members and plate members, thereby decreasing tolerance stackups
within cutter assembly 202 and ensuring proper device function.
[0076]            The coupling members can be any shape or dimension sufficient to couple
the plates together without obstructing the holes in the hole arrays 214 through which the
suction blisters are raised. For example, the coupling members can be substantially square

                                                  18
or rectangular in shape. Alternatively, the coupling members are substantially circular in
shape. In certain embodiments, the coupling members are of a sufficient shape and size for
location between the holes of the hole arrays 214 of the plate members.        In other
embodiments, the coupling members are of a sufficient shape and size for location along the
edges of the plurality of plates.
[0077]            Any method can be used to manufacture the plates and/or coupling
members, such as drilling, milling, laser etching, lithographic processing, photo etching, laser
ablation and the like. In a particular embodiment, a photo etching process is used to
manufacture the plates and/or coupling members.
[0078]            The frangible coupling between the coupling members and plate members
can be accomplished using a variety of techniques. For example, the coupling members can
be frangibly coupled between the plate members via spot welding techniques (e.g., laser
spot welding), via an adhesive such as epoxy, polyurethane, acrylic or a resin, via a frangible
pin, a snap-fit or tongue and groove assembly. Such frangible coupling techniques can be
accomplished using one or more manufacturing processes such as cold-heading, multiple
die forming, multiple-die progression, multiple-die headers, casting, stamping, punching,
atomic hydrogen welding, bare metal arc welding, carbon arc welding, flux cored arc
welding, gas metal arc welding, gas tungsten arc welding, plasma arc welding, shielded
metal arc welding, submerged arc welding, air acetylene welding, oxyacetylene welding,
oxygen/propane welding, oxy hydrogen welding, pressure gas welding, resistance spot
welding, resistance seam welding, projection welding, flash welding, upset welding, co
extrusion welding, cold pressure welding, diffusion welding, explosion welding,
electromagnetic pulse welding, forge welding, friction welding, friction stir welding, hot
pressure welding, hot isostatic pressure welding, roll welding, ultrasonic welding, electron
beam welding, electroslag welding, flow welding, induction welding, laser beam welding,
percussion welding, thermite welding, electrogas welding, and stud arc welding.
[0079]            Optionally, a portion of the plate material at or around the site of the frangible
coupling is removed to accommodate at least a portion of the coupling member by forming a
depression at or around the frangible section. For example, in one embodiment, laser
etching or photo etching on the plate member is used to circumscribe the coupling point at or
proximal to the frangible coupling. In another embodiment, a depression at or proximal to the
plate member can be removed with any method known in the art, for example drilling,
milling, laser etching, photo etching, laser ablation and the like.

                                                     19
             Preparation of Dressings/Skin Grafts for Treating Damaged Skin
[0080]             The devices of the invention can be used to prepare a skin graft to repair
numerous different types of skin damage. For example, the devices of the invention may be
used to prepare grafts to treat burns (e.g., both thermal and chemical burns), blistering,
dermatological conditions (e.g., epidermolysis bullosa or pyoderma gangrenosum), radiation
therapy ulcers, diabetic ulcers, ischemic ulcers, trophic ulcers, trauma, or depigmentation
(e.g., vitiligo).
[0081]             In particular embodiments, devices 200 of the invention are used to prepare
a skin graft(s) for treating vitiligo. Vitiligo is a chronic disorder that causes depigmentation of
patches of skin. It occurs when melanocytes, the cells responsible for skin pigmentation, die
or are unable to function. Although patches are initially small, they often enlarge and change
shape. When skin lesions occur, they are most prominent on the face, hands and wrists.
Some lesions have hyper-pigmentation around the edges. Depigmentation is particularly
noticeable around body orifices, such as the mouth, eyes, nostrils, genitalia and umbilicus.
[0082]             Vitiligo is generally classified into two categories, non-segmental vitiligo and
Segmental vitiligo. In non-segmental vitiligo (NSV), there is usually some form of symmetry
in the location of the patches of depigmentation. New patches also appear over time and can
be generalized over large portions of the body or localized to a particular area. Vitiligo where
little pigmented skin remains is referred to as vitiligo universalis. Non-segmental vitiligo can
come about at any age, unlike segmental vitiligo which is far more prevalent in teenage
years.
[0083]             Segmental vitiligo (SV) differs in appearance, aetiology and prevalence from
associated illnesses. Its treatment is different from that of non-segmental vitiligo. It tends to
affect areas of skin that are associated with dorsal roots from the spine. It spreads much
more rapidly than non-segmental vitiligo and, without treatment, it is much more stable/static
in course and not associated with auto-immune diseases.
             Incorporation by Reference
[0084]             References and citations to other documents, such as patents, patent
applications, patent publications, journals, books, papers, web contents, have been made
throughout this disclosure. All such documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference
in their entirety for all purposes.

                                                 20
        Equivalents
[0085]           The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing
from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore
to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the invention described
herein. Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the
foregoing description, and all changes which come within the meaning and range of
equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.

                                                   21
CLAIMS:
1.         A method for manufacturing a plurality of plates for use in a device for obtaining a
skin graft, said method comprising the steps of:
            obtaining a plurality of plates, at least one of said plates comprising a substantially
uniform thickness;
            forming a plurality of openings in said plates such that the openings align upon
stacking said plates, wherein at least one of the plates comprises one or more openings that
form a cutting edge or surface;
            forming a plurality of coupling members capable of creating one or more frangible
linkages between said at least one plate having openings that form a cutting edge or surface
and at least one other plate, whereby the openings of said plate and the at least one other
plate are in alignment prior to use; and
            attaching said plate having openings that form a cutting edge or surface to said at
least one other plate via said coupling members to form one or more frangible linkages
therebetween, wherein at least one frangible linkage is configured to break in response to
application of a lateral force to at least one of the plates to allow relative movement thereof.
2.         The method of claim 1, wherein said forming steps comprise laser etching, photo
etching or lithographic processing.
3.         The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said frangible linkage is selected from a
mechanical stamp, a mechanical punch, a weld, epoxy, an adhesive, mechanical
compression, a snap-fit, a tongue and groove, a post and bar, or a frangible pin.
4.         The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said coupling members
are of substantially uniform shape and size.
5.         The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein one or more of said
coupling members are disposed between said plate having said couplings formed therein
and at least one of said plates.
6.         The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising the step of coupling two
or more plates together via said coupling members.
7.         The method of claim 6, wherein said plates are slidable with respect to each other
upon breaking said frangible linkage.

                                                   22
8.         The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said coupling members are
integrally formed in one of said plates and do not substantially alter the thickness of said
plate.
9.         A method for manufacturing a plurality of plates for use in a device for obtaining a
skin graft, said method comprising the steps of:
            obtaining a plurality of plates, at least one of said plates comprising a substantially
uniform thickness;
            forming a plurality of openings in said plates such that the openings align upon
stacking said plates; and
            forming a plurality of coupling members in at least one of said plates, wherein said
coupling members do not substantially alter said uniform thickness and are capable of
creating a frangible linkage between at least two of said plates.
10.        The method of claim 9, wherein at least one of said plates comprises one or more
openings that form a cutting edge.
11.        The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of attaching two or more
plates together via said coupling members.
12.        The method of claim 9, wherein said forming steps comprise laser etching, photo
etching or lithographic processing.
13.        The method of claim 13, wherein said frangible linkage is selected from a
mechanical stamp, a mechanical punch, a weld, epoxy, an adhesive, mechanical
compression, a snap-fit, a tongue and groove, a post and bar, or a frangible pin.
14.        The method of claim 9, said coupling members are of substantially uniform shape
and size.
15.        The method of claim 12, wherein one or more of said coupling members are
disposed between at least two of said plates.
16.        The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of coupling two or more plates
together via said coupling members.

                                            23
17.       The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of coupling two or more plates
together via said coupling members.
18.       The method of claim 9, wherein said plates are slidable with respect to each other
upon breaking said frangible linkage.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                              1/9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 2A
                                       2/9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 2B
                                       3/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/9

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      5/9
FIGURE 4

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 5A
                                       6/9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 5B
                                       7/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/9

