ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are formulations, substrates, and arrays for amino acid and peptide synthesis
on microarrays. In certain embodiments, methods for manufacturing and using the
formulations, substrates, and arrays including one-step coupling, e.g., for synthesis of
peptides in a C-+N orientation are disclosed. In some embodiments, disclosed herein are
formulations and methods for high efficiency coupling of biomolecules to a substrate.

                              AUSTRALIA
                           Patents Act 1990
                           Vibrant Holdings, LLC
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                          STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title.
      Selective photo activation of amino acidsfor single step peptide coupling
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best
method of performing it known to us:
                                          1

TITLE
[0001]       Selective Photo activation of Amino Acids for Single Step Peptide Coupling
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]       This application is a divisional application pursuant to Section 79B of the Patents
Act 1990 of Australian Application No. 2015218635 which corresponds to International
Application No. PCT/US2015/017173 filed 23 February 2015 in the Australian national
phase, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/942,903 filed
21 February 2014, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/048,689 filed 10
September 2014, the complete contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0003]       A typical microarray system is generally comprised of biomolecular probes, such
as DNA, proteins, or peptides, formatted on a solid planar surface like glass, plastic, or
silicon chip, plus the instruments needed to handle samples (automated robotics), to read the
reporter molecules (scanners) and analyze the data (bioinformatic tools). Microarray
technology can facilitate monitoring of many probes per square centimeter. Advantages of
using multiple probes include, but are not limited to, speed, adaptability, comprehensiveness
and the relatively cheaper cost of high volume manufacturing. The uses of such an array
include, but are not limited to, diagnostic microbiology, including the detection and
identification of pathogens, investigation of anti-microbial resistance, epidemiological strain
typing, investigation of oncogenes, analysis of microbial infections using host genomic
expression, and polymorphism profiles.
[0004]       Recent advances in genomics have culminated in sequencing of entire genomes of
several organisms, including humans. Genomics alone, however, cannot provide a complete
understanding of cellular processes that are involved in disease, development, and other
biological phenomena; because such processes are often directly mediated by polypeptides
often as participants in ligand-receptor binding reactions. Given the large numbers of
polypeptides are encoded by the genome of an organism, the development of high throughput
technologies for analyzing polypeptides is of paramount importance.
[0005]       Peptide arrays with distinct analyte-detecting regions or probes can be assembled
on a single substrate by techniques well known to one skilled in the art. A variety of methods
are available for creating a peptide microarray. These methods include: (a) chemo selective
immobilization methods; and (b) in situ parallel synthesis methods which can be further
                                                 2

divided into (1) SPOT synthesis and (2) photolithographic synthesis. However, chemo
selective immobilization methods of the prior art tend to be cumbersome, requiring multiple
steps, or are difficult to control spatially, limiting the feature density that can be achieved
using these methods, and in situ parallel synthesis methods of the prior art suffer from
deficiencies relating to low or inconsistent coupling efficiencies across multiple coupling
cycles. The methods in the prior art suffer from slow feature synthesis. The present
invention addresses these and other shortcomings of the prior art by providing substrates,
systems, and methods for array synthesis and biomolecular analysis as described in detail
below.
[0006]       Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all
of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the
appended claims.
[0007]       Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
SUMMARY
[0008]       Embodiments of the invention include formulations, substrates, and arrays.
Embodiments also include methods for manufacturing and using the formulations, substrates,
and arrays. One embodiment includes an array that is manufactured using a photoactive
coupling formulation, a carboxylic acid activating compound, and a substrate comprising
carboxylic acid groups. In some embodiments, the photoactive coupling formulation
comprises a photoactive compound, a coupling molecule, a polymer, and a solvent. Another
embodiment includes an array that is manufactured using a coupling formulation, a
photoactive carboxylic acid activating compound, and a substrate comprising carboxylic acid
groups. In some embodiments, the coupling formulation comprises a coupling molecule, a
polymer, and a solvent. In some embodiments, attaching the coupling molecule to the
substrate comprises selectively exposing either the photoactive compound or the photoactive
carboxylic acid activating compound to light. In some embodiments, the photoactive
compound is about 0.5-5% by weight of the total formulation.
[0009]       Examples of coupling molecules include, but are not limited, to amino acids,
peptides, proteins, DNA binding sequences, antibodies, oligonucleotides, nucleic acids,

peptide nucleic acids ("PNA"), deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA), ribonucleic acids (RNA),
peptide mimetics, nucleotide mimetics, chelates, biomarkers and the like. In one embodiment,
the coupling molecule comprises a naturally occurring or artificial amino acid or polypeptide.
In some embodiments, the artificial amino acid is a D-amino acid. In some embodiments, the
coupling molecule is 1-2% by weight of the total formulation. In some embodiments, the
coupling molecule comprises a protected group. In some embodiments, the group is
protected by Fmoc.
[0010]       In some embodiments, the photoactive carboxylic acid activating compound
comprises a carbodiimide precursor compound of formula (I):
                                                 S
                                        R 'N          N'.--R
                                               N=N
wherein
a.           R is selected from a group comprising substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, and R
further comprises a water-solubilizing group; and
b.           R' is substituted or unsubstituted aryl.
[0011]       Particular embodiments of photobase generator compounds and carbodiimide
precursor compounds are shown in Table 1.
[0012]       In certain embodiments, the carboxylic acid activating compound, also referred to
as a "coupling reagent" herein, is a carbodiimide. In some embodiments, the polymer is
polymethyl methacrylate.
[0013]       In some embodiments, the formulations are miscible with water. In some
embodiments, the solvent is water, an organic solvent, or a combination thereof. In certain
embodiments, the organic solvent comprises ethyl lactate or methylpyrrolidone. In some
embodiments, the solvent is about 80-90% by weight of the total formulation.
[0014]       Also encompassed is a substrate, comprising: a first layer, wherein the layer
comprises a plurality of unprotected amino groups. In some embodiments, the first layer is a
porous layer. In some embodiments, the amino groups are oriented in multiple directions on
the surface of the porous layer.
[0015]       In an embodiment, the first layer is coupled to a support layer. In an embodiment,
the first layer is coupled to a silicon wafer. In certain embodiments, the porous layer
comprises dextran. In other embodiments, the porous layer comprises porous silica. In an
embodiment, the porous layer comprises pores of a pore size of about 2 nm to 100 pim. In an
                                                  A

embodiment, the porous layer comprises a porosity of about 10-80%. In an embodiment, the
porous layer comprises a thickness of about 0.01 pm to about 10,000 pim.
[0016]       In an embodiment, the substrate further comprises a plurality of pillars operatively
coupled to the planar layer in positionally-defined locations, wherein each pillar has a planar
surface extended from the planar layer, wherein the distance between the surface of each
pillar and the upper surface of the layer is between 1,000-5,000 angstroms, and wherein the
                                                                       2
plurality of pillars are present at a density of greater than 10,000/cm , and wherein the first
layer is deposited on the planar surface of the pillars. In some embodiments, the surface area
                                         2
of each pillar surface is at least 1 pim . In some embodiments, the surface area of each pillar
                                                  2
surface has a total area of less than 10,000 tm . In some embodiments, the distance between
the surface of each pillar and the lower surface of the layer is 2,000-7,000 angstroms. In
some embodiments, the planar layer is 1,000-2,000 angstroms thick. In some embodiments,
the center of each pillar is at least 2,000 angstroms from the center of any other pillar. In
some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is parallel to the upper surface of the planar
layer. In some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is substantially parallel to the upper
surface of the planar layer. In some embodiments, each pillar comprises silicon dioxide or
silicon nitride. In some embodiments, each pillar is at least 98-99% silicon dioxide by
weight.
[0017]       In an embodiment, the substrate further comprises a linker molecule having a free
amino terminus attached to at least one of the carboxylic acid groups. In some embodiments,
the substrate further comprises a linker molecule having a free carboxylic acid group attached
to at least one of the carboxylic acid groups. In some embodiments, the substrate further
comprises a coupling molecule attached to at least one of the carboxylic acid groups. In
some embodiments, the substrate further comprises a polymer chain attached to at least one
of the carboxylic acid groups.
[0018]       In an embodiment, the polymer chain comprises a peptide chain. In some
embodiments, the polymer chain is attached to at least one of the carboxylic acid groups via a
covalent bond.
[0019]       Another embodiment encompasses a three-dimensional array of features attached
to a surface at positionally-defined locations, the features each comprising: a collection of
peptide chains of determinable sequence and intended length, wherein within an individual
feature, the fraction of peptide chains within the collection having the intended length is
characterized by an average coupling efficiency for each coupling step of at least 98%.
                                                  S

[0020]       In an embodiment, the array comprises a porous layer. In some embodiments, the
porous layer comprises a plurality of free carboxylic acid groups. In some embodiments, the
porous layer comprises a plurality of coupling molecules each attached to the array via a
carboxylic acid group. In some embodiments, the porous layer comprises a plurality of
peptide chains each attached to the array via a carboxylic acid group.
[0021]       In certain embodiments, the average coupling efficiency of each coupling step is
at least 98.5%. In some embodiments, the average coupling efficiency of each coupling step
is at least 92%, 93%,   9 4 %, 9 5%, 96%, 9 7 %, 98%, or 99%. In some embodiments, each
peptide chain is from 6 to 60 amino acids in length. In some embodiments, each peptide
chain is at least 6 amino acids in length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain is at least
6, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60 amino acids in length. In some embodiments,
each peptide chain comprises one or more L amino acids. In some embodiments, each
peptide chain comprises one or more D amino acids. In some embodiments, each peptide
chain comprises one or more naturally occurring amino acids. In some embodiments, each
peptide chain comprises one or more synthetic amino acids. In some embodiments, the array
comprises at least 1,000 different peptide chains attached to the surface. In some
embodiments, the array comprises at least 10,000 different peptide chains attached to the
surface.
[0022]       In an embodiment, each of the positionally-defined locations is at a different,
known location that is physically separated from each of the other positionally-defined
locations. In some embodiments, each of the positionally-defined locations comprises a
plurality of identical sequences. In some embodiments, each positionally-defined location
comprises a plurality of identical sequences unique from the other positionally-defined
locations. In some embodiments, each of the positionally-defined locations is a positionally
distinguishable location. In certain embodiments, each determinable sequence is a known
sequence. In certain embodiments, each determinable sequence is a distinct sequence. In
some embodiments, the features are covalently attached to the surface. In some
embodiments, peptide chains are attached to the surface through a linker molecule or a
coupling molecule.
[0023]       In certain embodiments, the features comprise a plurality of distinct, nested,
overlapping peptide chains comprising subsequences derived from a source protein having a
known sequence. In an embodiment, each peptide chain in the plurality is at least 5 amino
acids in length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain in the plurality is at least 5, 10, 15,
20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60 amino acids in length.

[0024]       In some embodiments, the features comprise a plurality of peptide chains each
having a random, determinable sequence of amino acids.
[0025]       One embodiment includes a method of attaching a coupling molecule to a
substrate, comprising: obtaining a substrate comprising a plurality of carboxylic acid groups
for linking to a coupling molecule; contacting the substrate a carboxylic acid activating
compound; contacting the substrate with a photoactive coupling formulation comprising a
photoactive compound, a protected coupling molecule, a polymer, and a solvent; selectively
exposing the photoactive coupling formulation to light, thereby deprotecting the protected
coupling molecule at a selectively exposed area; coupling the unprotected coupling molecule
to at least one of the plurality of carboxylic acid groups at the selectively exposed area; and
optionally repeating the method to produce a desired polymer at the at least one carboxylic
acid group.
[0026]       Another embodiment includes a method of attaching a coupling molecule to a
substrate, comprising: obtaining a substrate comprising a plurality of carboxylic acid groups
for linking to a coupling molecule; contacting the substrate with a photoactive carboxylic
acid activating compound; selectively exposing the photoactive carboxylic acid activating
compound to light, thereby generating carbodiimide at a selectively exposed area and
activating the carboxylic acid groups on the substrate; contacting the substrate with a
coupling formulation comprising an unprotected coupling molecule, a polymer, and a
solvent; coupling the unprotected coupling molecule to at least one of the plurality of
carboxylic acid groups at the selectively exposed area; and optionally repeating the method to
produce a desired polymer at the at least one carboxylic acid group.
[0027]       In an embodiment, the coupling step has an efficiency of at least 98%. In an
embodiment, the coupling molecule is an amino acid. In an embodiment, the polymer is a
polypeptide. In an embodiment, the substrate comprises a porous layer comprising a plurality
of attachment sites extending in multiple dimensions from the surface of the porous layer
within and around the porous layer. In an embodiment, the attachment site comprises an
unprotected carboxylic acid group for binding to the coupling molecule.
[0028]       In some embodiments, the substrate comprises a planar layer comprising a metal
or silicon and having an upper surface and a lower surface; and a plurality of pillars
operatively coupled to the layer in positionally-defined locations, wherein each pillar has a
planar surface extended from the layer, wherein the distance between the surface of each
pillar and the upper surface of the layer is between 1,000-5,000 angstroms, wherein the
surface of each pillar is parallel to the upper surface of the layer, and wherein the plurality of
                                                  7

pillars are present at a density of greater than 10,000/cm 2 , and wherein the attachment site is
coupled to the upper surface of the pillar.
[0029]       Another embodiment includes a method of producing a three-dimensional array of
features, comprising: obtaining a porous layer comprising a plurality of unprotected
carboxylic acid groups; and attaching the features to the unprotected carboxylic acid groups,
the features each comprising a collection of peptide chains of determinable sequence and
intended length. In some embodiments, the carboxylic acid groups are oriented in multiple
directions.
[0030]       In some embodiments, within an individual feature, the fraction of peptide chains
within the collection having the intended length is characterized by an average coupling
efficiency for each coupling step of at least 98%. In some embodiments, the features are
attached to the surface using a coupling formulation comprising a solvent, a polymer, a
coupling molecule, a neutralization reagent, and a coupling reagent.
[0031]       One further embodiment includes a method of detecting biomolecules in a sample,
comprising: providing a substrate comprising at least one porous layer, wherein the layer
comprises a plurality of peptide chains attached to carboxylic acid groups, wherein the
peptide chains have a known sequence according to positionally-defined locations; contacting
the substrate with the sample; and detecting binding events of biomolecules within the
sample to the peptide chains. In some embodiments, the carboxylic acid groups are oriented
in multiple directions.
[0032]       In an embodiment, the sample is a biological sample. In an embodiment, the
biological sample is a bodily fluid. In some embodiments, the bodily fluid is amniotic fluid,
aqueous humour, vitreous humour, bile, blood serum, breast milk, cerebrospinal fluid,
cerumen, chyle, endolymph, perilymph, feces, female ejaculate, gastric acid, gastric juice,
lymph, mucus, peritoneal fluid, pleural fluid, pus, saliva, sebum, semen, sweat, synovial
fluid, tears, vaginal secretion, vomit, or urine. In some embodiments, the biomolecule is a
protein. In some embodiments, the biomolecule is an antibody.
[0033]       In some embodiments, the method has a greater than 40 fold increase in sensitivity
of biomolecule detection as compared to a substrate comprising peptide chains attached to a
planar layer.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
[0034]       These and other features, embodiments, and advantages of the present invention
will become better understood with regard to the following description, and accompanying
drawings, where:

[0035]       Figures 1 shows (A) wafer substrate preparation, (B) pillar substrate, and (C)
AFM-measured roughness and calculated density of substrate, according to some
embodiments.
[0036]       Figure 2 shows peptide array synthesis, according to an embodiment.
[0037]       Figures 3 illustrate end-of-line fluorescein quality control of amino acid
sequences synthesized on a peptide array, according to some embodiments.
[0038]       Figures 4A-4F illustrate end-of-line biological quality control of amino acid
sequences synthesized on a peptide array using monoclonal antibodies, according to some
embodiments. Figure 4A discloses SEQ ID NOS 7 and 7, respectively, in order of
appearance. Figure 4B discloses SEQ ID NOS 8 and 8, respectively, in order of appearance.
Figure 4C discloses SEQ ID NOS 9 and 9, respectively, in order of appearance. Figure 4D
discloses SEQ ID NOS 10 and 10, respectively, in order of appearance. Figure 4E discloses
SEQ ID NOS 11 and 11, respectively, in order of appearance. Figure 4F discloses SEQ ID
NOS 12 and 12, respectively, in order of appearance.
[0039]       One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that
alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed
without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0040]       Terms used in the claims and specification are defined as set forth below unless
otherwise specified.
[0041]       As used herein the term "wafer" refers to a slice of semiconductor material, such
as a silicon or a germanium crystal generally used in the fabrication of integrated circuits.
Wafers can be in a variety of sizes from, e.g., 25.4 mm (1 inch) to 300 mm (11.8 inches)
along one dimension with thickness from, e.g., 275 ptm to 775 ptm.
[0042]       As used herein the term "photoresist" or "resist" or "photoactive material" refers
to a light-sensitive material that changes its solubility in a solution when exposed to ultra
violet or deep ultra violet radiation. Photoresists are organic or inorganic compounds that are
typically divided into two types: positive resists and negative resists. A positive resist is a
type of photoresist in which the portion of the photoresist that is exposed to light becomes
soluble to the photoresist developer. The portion of the photoresist that is unexposed remains
insoluble to the photoresist developer. A negative resist is a type of photoresist in which the
portion of the photoresist that is exposed to light becomes insoluble to the photoresist
developer. The unexposed portion of the photoresist is dissolved by the photoresist developer.
[0043]       As used herein the term "photomask" or "reticle" or "mask" refers to an opaque
                                                   0

plate with transparent patterns or holes that allow light to pass through. In a typical exposing
process, the pattern on a photomask is transferred onto a photoresist.
[0044]       As used herein the term "photoactive compound" refers to compounds that are
modified when exposed to electromagnetic radiation. These compounds include, for
example, cationic photoinitiators such as photoacid or photobase generators, which generate
an acid or a base, respectively, when exposed to electromagnetic radiation. A photoinitiator
is a compound especially added to a formulation to convert electromagnetic radiation into
chemical energy in the form of initiating species, e.g., free radicals or cations. The acid,
base, or other product of a photoactive compound exposed to electromagnetic radiation may
then react with another compound in a chain reaction to produce a desired chemical reaction.
The spatial orientation of the occurrence of these chemical reactions is thus defined according
to the pattern of electromagnetic radiation the solution or surface comprising photoactive
compounds is exposed to. This pattern may be defined, e.g., by a photomask or reticle.
[0045]       As used herein the term "coupling molecule" or "monomer molecule" includes
any natural or artificially synthesized amino acid with its amino group protected with a
fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc or F-Moc) group or a t-butoxycarbonyl (tboc or Boc)
group. These amino acids may have their side chains protected as an option. Examples of
coupling molecules include Boc-Gly-OH, Fmoc- Trp-OH. Other examples are described
below.
[0046]       As used here in the term "coupling" or "coupling process" or "coupling step"
refers to a process of forming a bond between two or more molecules such as a linking
molecule or a coupling molecule. A bond can be a covalent bond such as a peptide bond. A
peptide bond is a chemical bond formed between two molecules when the carboxyl group of
one coupling molecule reacts with the amino group of the other coupling molecule, releasing
a molecule of water (H20). This is a dehydration synthesis reaction (also known as a
condensation reaction), and usually occurs between amino acids. The resulting -C(=O)NH
bond is called a peptide bond, and the resulting molecule is an amide.
[0047]       As used herein the term "coupling efficiency" refers to the probability of
successful addition of a monomer to a reaction site (e.g., at the end of a polymer) available
for binding to the monomer. For example, during the growth of a peptide chain in the N to C
orientation, a polypeptide having a free carboxyl group would bind to an amino acid having a
free amine group under appropriate conditions. The coupling efficiency gives the probability
of the addition of a free amino acid to the free carboxyl group under certain conditions. It
may be determined in bulk, e.g., by monitoring single monomer additions to several unique
                                                 10

reaction sites simultaneously.
[0048]        As used herein the terms "polypeptide," "peptide," or "protein" are used
interchangeably to describe a chain or polymer of amino acids that are linked together by
bonds. Accordingly, the term "peptide" as used herein includes a dipeptide, tripeptide,
oligopeptide, and polypeptide. The term "peptide" is not limited to any particular number of
amino acids. In some embodiments, a peptide contains about 2 to about 50 amino acids, about
5 to about 40 amino acids, or about 5 to about 20 amino acids. A molecule, such as a protein
or polypeptide, including an enzyme, can be a "native" or "wild-type" molecule, meaning
that it occurs naturally in nature; or it may be a "mutant," "variant," "derivative," or
"modification," meaning that it has been made, altered, derived, or is in some way different
or changed from a native molecule or from another molecule such as a mutant.
[0049]       As used herein the term "biomarkers" includes, but is not limited to DNA, RNA,
proteins (e.g., enzymes such as kinases), peptides, sugars, salts, fats, lipids, ions and the like.
[0050]       As used herein the term "linker molecule" or "spacer molecule" includes any
molecule that does not add any functionality to the resulting peptide but spaces and extends
the peptide out from the substrate, thus increasing the distance between the substrate surface
and the growing peptide. This generally reduces steric hindrance with the substrate for
reactions involving the peptide (including uni-molecular folding reactions and multi
molecular binding reactions) and so improves performance of assays measuring one or more
embodiments of peptide functionality.
[0051]       As used herein the term "developer" refers to a solution that can selectively
dissolve the materials that are either exposed or not exposed to light. Typically developers
are water-based solutions with minute quantities of a base added. Examples include
tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide in water-based developers. Developers are used for the
initial pattern definition where a commercial photoresist is used.
[0052]       As used herein the term "protecting group" includes a group that is introduced
into a molecule by chemical modification of a functional group to obtain chemoselectivity in
a subsequent chemical reaction. Chemoselectivity refers to directing a chemical reaction
along a desired path to obtain a pre-selected product as compared to another. For example,
the use of tboc as a protecting group enables chemoselectivity for peptide synthesis using a
light mask and a photoacid generator to selectively remove the protecting group and direct
pre-determined peptide coupling reactions to occur at locations defined by the light mask.
[00531       As used herein the term "microarray," "array" or "chip" refers to a substrate on
which a plurality of probe molecules of protein or specific DNA binding sequences have been
                                                 11

affixed at separate locations in an ordered manner thus forming a microscopic array. Protein
or specific DNA binding sequences may be bound to the substrate of the chip through one or
more different types of linker molecules. A "chip array" refers to a plate having a plurality of
chips, for example, 24, 96, or 384 chips.
[0054]       As used herein the term "probe molecules" refers to, but is not limited to,
proteins, DNA binding sequences, antibodies, peptides, oligonucleotides, nucleic acids,
peptide nucleic acids ("PNA"), deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA), ribonucleic acids (RNA),
peptide mimetics, nucleotide mimetics, chelates, biomarkers and the like. As used herein, the
term "feature" refers to a particular probe molecule that has been attached to a microarray.
As used herein, the term "ligand" refers to a molecule, agent, analyte or compound of interest
that can bind to one or more features.
[0055]       As used herein the term "microarray system" or a "chip array system" refers to a
system usually comprised of bio molecular probes formatted on a solid planar surface like
glass, plastic or silicon chip plus the instruments needed to handle samples (automated
robotics), to read the reporter molecules (scanners) and analyze the data (bioinformatic tools).
[0056]       As used herein the term "patterned region" or "pattern" or "location" refers to a
region on the substrate on which are grown different features. These patterns can be defined
using photomasks.
[0057]       As used herein the term "derivatization" refers to the process of chemically
modifying a surface to make it suitable for biomolecular synthesis. Typically derivatization
includes the following steps: making the substrate hydrophilic, adding an amino silane group,
and attaching a linker molecule.
[0058]       As used herein the term "capping" or "capping process" or "capping step" refers
to the addition of a molecule that prevents the further reaction of the molecule to which it is
attached. For example, to prevent the further formation of a peptide bond, the amino groups
are typically capped with an acetic anhydride molecule. In other embodiments, ethanolamine
is used.
[0059]       As used herein the term "diffusion" refers to the spread of, e.g., photoacid or
photobase through random motion from regions of higher concentration to regions of lower
concentration.
[0060]       As used herein the term "dye molecule" refers to a dye which typically is a
colored substance that can bind to a substrate. Dye molecules can be useful in detecting
binding between a feature on an array and a molecule of interest.
[0061]       As used herein, the terms "immunological binding" and "immunological binding
                                                 192

properties" refer to the non-covalent interactions of the type which occur between an
immunoglobulin molecule and an antigen for which the immunoglobulin is specific.
[0062]       As used herein the term "biological sample" refers to a sample derived from
biological tissue or fluid that can be assayed for an analyte(s) of interest. Such samples
include, but are not limited to, sputum, amniotic fluid, blood, blood cells (e.g., white cells),
tissue or fine needle biopsy samples, urine, peritoneal fluid, and pleural fluid, or cells
therefrom. Biological samples may also include sections of tissues such as frozen sections
taken for histological purposes. Although the sample is typically taken from a human patient,
the assays can be used to detect analyte(s) of interest in samples from any organism (e.g.,
mammal, bacteria, virus, algae, or yeast) or mammal, such as dogs, cats, sheep, cattle, and
pigs. The sample may be pretreated as necessary by dilution in an appropriate buffer solution
or concentrated, if desired.
[0063]       As used herein, the term "assay" refers to a type of biochemical test that measures
the presence or concentration of a substance of interest in solutions that can contain a
complex mixture of substances.
[0064]       The term "antigen" as used herein refers to a molecule that triggers an immune
response by the immune system of a subject, e.g., the production of an antibody by the
immune system. Antigens can be exogenous, endogenous or auto antigens. Exogenous
antigens are those that have entered the body from outside through inhalation, ingestion or
injection. Endogenous antigens are those that have been generated within previously-normal
cells as a result of normal cell metabolism, or because of viral or intracellular
bacterial infection. Auto antigens are those that are normal protein or protein complex
present in the host body but can stimulate an immune response.
[0065]       As used herein the term "epitope" or "immunoactive regions" refers to distinct
molecular surface features of an antigen capable of being bound by component of the
adaptive immune system, e.g., an antibody or T cell receptor. Antigenic molecules can
present several surface features that can act as points of interaction for specific antibodies.
Any such distinct molecular feature can constitute an epitope. Therefore, antigens have the
potential to be bound by several distinct antibodies, each of which is specific to a particular
epitope.
[0066]       As used herein the term "antibody" or "immunoglobulin molecule" refers to a
molecule naturally secreted by a particular type of cells of the immune system: B cells.
There are five different, naturally occurring isotypes of antibodies, namely: IgA, IgM, IgG,
IgD, and IgE.

[0067]       The term percent "identity," in the context of two or more nucleic acid or
polypeptide sequences, refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that have a specified
percentage of nucleotides or amino acid residues that are the same, when compared and
aligned for maximum correspondence, as measured using one of the sequence comparison
algorithms described below (e.g., BLASTP and BLASTN or other algorithms available to
persons of skill) or by visual inspection. Depending on the application, the percent "identity"
can exist over a region of the sequence being compared, e.g., over a functional domain, or,
alternatively, exist over the full length of the two sequences to be compared.
[0068]       For sequence comparison, typically one sequence acts as a reference sequence to
which test sequences are compared. When using a sequence comparison algorithm, test and
reference sequences are input into a computer, subsequence coordinates are designated, if
necessary, and sequence algorithm program parameters are designated. The sequence
comparison algorithm then calculates the percent sequence identity for the test sequence(s)
relative to the reference sequence, based on the designated program parameters.
[0069]       Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison can be conducted, e.g., by the
local homology algorithm of Smith & Waterman, Adv. Appl. Math. 2:482 (1981), by the
homology alignment algorithm of Needleman & Wunsch, J. Mol. Biol. 48:443 (1970), by the
search for similarity method of Pearson & Lipman, Proc. Nat'l. Acad. Sci. USA 85:2444
(1988), by computerized implementations of these algorithms (GAP, BESTFIT, FASTA, and
TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package, Genetics Computer Group, 575
Science Dr., Madison, Wis.), or by visual inspection (see generally Ausubel et al., infra).
[0070]       One example of an algorithm that is suitable for determining percent sequence
identity and sequence similarity is the BLAST algorithm, which is described in Altschul et
al., J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410 (1990). Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly
available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information website.
[0071]       Unless otherwise noted, "alkyl" as used herein, whether used alone or as part of a
substituent group, refers to a saturated, branched, or straight-chain monovalent hydrocarbon
radical derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent
alkane. Typical alkyl groups include, but are not limited to, methyl; ethyls; propyls such as
propan-1-yl, propan-2-yl; butyls such as butan-1-yl, butan-2-yl, 2-methyl-propan-1-yl, 2
methyl-propan-2-yl, and the like. In preferred embodiments, the alkyl groups are Ci 6 alkyl,
with Ci 3 alkyl being particularly preferred. "Alkoxyl" radicals are oxygen ethers formed
from the previously described straight or branched chain alkyl groups.
[0072]       The term "aryl," as used herein, refers to aromatic groups comprising a stable six
                                                  1A

membered monocyclic, or ten-membered bicyclic or fourteen-membered tricyclic aromatic
ring system which consists of carbon atoms. Examples of aryl groups include, but are not
limited to, phenyl or naphthalenyl.
[0073]      The term "cis-trans isomer" refers to stereoisomeric olefins or cycloalkanes (or
hetero-analogues) which differ in the positions of atoms (or groups) relative to a reference
plane: in the cis-isomer the atoms of highest priority are on the same side; in the trans-isomer
they are on opposite sides.
[0074]      The term "substituted" refers to a radical in which one or more hydrogen atoms
are each independently replaced with the same or different substituent(s).
[0075]       With reference to substituents, the term "independently" means that when more
than one of such substituent is possible, such substituents may be the same or different from
each other.
[0076]      The term "oxo" whether used alone or as part of a substituent group refers to an
O= bounded to either a carbon or a sulfur atom. For example, phthalimide and saccharin are
examples of compounds with oxo substituents.
[0077]      It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
[0078]      Carbodiimide Precursor Compounds
[0079]      In some embodiments, the photoactive carboxylic acid activating compound
comprises a carbodiimide precursor compound of formula (I):
                                                 S
                                       RsN           N    R'
                                              N=N
wherein
c.          R is selected from a group comprising substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, and R
further comprises a water-solubilizing group; and
d.          R' is substituted or unsubstituted aryl.
[0080]      In certain embodiments, the carboxylic acid activating compound, also referred to
as a "coupling reagent" herein, is a carbodiimide. In some embodiments, the polymer is
polymethyl methacrylate.
[0081]      Representative photoactive carboxylic acid activating compound related to the
present invention are listed in Table 1.
                                                 1is

Table 1: Carbodiimide Precursor Compounds
                                            S
                                    R-N         N-R'
                                         N=N
Compound                R                         R'                                            Name
                                                                                   1-(3 -(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    1               N                                                                  (2-methoxyphenyl)-1,4
                                                       OMe                        dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione
                                                                                    1-((diethylamino)methyl)-4
    2                  N                                                              phenyl- 1,4-dihydro-5H
                                                                                          tetrazole-5-thione
                                                                                   1-(3 -(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    3               N                                                                 phenyl-1,4-dihydro-5H
                                                                                          tetrazole-5-thione
                                                                                   1-(3 -(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    4               N                                                             (methoxyphenyl)-1,4-dihydro
                                                                                        5H-tetrazole-5-thione
                                           MeG MeO
                                                                                   1-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    5               N                                                              (dimethylamino-phenyl)- 1,4
                                               NC  'dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione
                                                                                   1-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    6
                I-"                                                                   (methylthio-phenyl)-1,4
                                                                                  dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione
                                           MeS~
                                                                                   1-(3-(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    7               N                                                             (nitrophenyl)- 1,4-dihydro-5H
                                                                                          tetrazole-5-thione
                                                                                   1-(3 -(diethylamino)propyl)-4
    8               N                                                              (ethoxyphenyl)-1,4-dihydro
                                                                                        5H-tetrazole-5-thione
                                            EtO
                                                                                   1-([ 1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl)-4-(3
    9               N                                                                (diethylamino)propyl)-1,4
                                                                                  dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione
[0082]    Synthesis of Carbodiimide Precursor Compounds
[0083]    This application provides methods of making the disclosed compounds according
                                            1rA

to traditional organic synthetic methods as well as matrix or combinatorial synthetic methods.
Scheme 1 describe suggested synthetic routes. Using the scheme, the guidelines below, and
the examples, a person of skill in the art may develop analogous or similar methods for a
given compound that is within the invention. These methods are representative of the
synthetic schemes, but are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention.
[0084]      Where the compounds according to this invention have at least one chiral center,
they may accordingly exist as enantiomers. Where the compounds possess two or more
chiral centers, they may additionally exist as diastereomers. Where the processes for the
preparation of the compounds according to the invention give rise to mixtures of
stereoisomers, these isomers may be separated by techniques such as preparative
chromatography. The compounds may be prepared in racemic form or as individual
enantiomers or diasteromers by either stereospecific synthesis or by resolution. The
compounds may, for example, be resolved into their component enantiomers or diastereomers
by techniques, such as the formation of stereoisomeric pairs by salt formation with an
optically active base, followed by fractional crystallization and regeneration of the free acid.
The compounds may also be resolved by formation of stereoisomeric esters or amides,
followed by chromatographic separation and removal of the chiral auxiliary. Alternatively,
the compounds may be resolved using a chiral HPLC column. It is to be understood that all
stereoisomers, racemic mixtures, diastereomers, geometric isomers, and enantiomers thereof
are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.
[0085]      Furthermore, some of the crystalline forms for the compounds may exist as
polymorphs and as such are intended to be included in the present invention. In addition,
some of the compounds may form solvates with water (i.e., hydrates) or common organic
solvents, and such solvates are also intended to be encompassed within the scope of this
invention.
[0086]      Examples of the described synthetic routes include Scheme 1 and Examples 1
and 2. Compounds analogous to the target compounds of these examples can be made
according to similar routes. The disclosed compounds are useful in the manufacture of
microarrays as described herein.
[0087]      General Guidance
                                            Scheme 1
                                                17

                R   NCS + NaN 3         Isopropanol, H2 0               N N,
                                                                         I     NH
                     (+)                   80 *C, 3 hours            R'N
                                                                             S
             N           HO B'OH                                           N N
                                      Cu(OAc) 2 , Pyridine                 I'N
               NH                                                          N           \
     R'             +R               DMF, 60 *C, 18 hours             R'       S         R
             S
                             (III)                                             (IV)
[0088]       The compound (I), wherein R is 3-(diethylamino)propyl or 3
(diethylamino)methyl, can be synthesized as outlined by the general synthetic route
illustrated in Scheme 1. Treatment of an appropriate isothiocyanate (I) with sodium azide, an
known compound prepared by known methods in water solution of isopropanol at 800
Celsius for 3 hours yields the R-substituted 1-hydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione (II) following a 1,3
dipolar cycloaddition. Copper mediated cross-coupling of the R-substituted 1-hydro-5H
tetrazole-5-thione (II) with phenylboronic acid (III) in the presence of copper acetate,
pyridine and dimethylformamide (DMF) at a temperature of 60' Celsius for 18 hours yields
compound (IV).
[0089]       Scheme 1 provides a 70% yield of compound (II) and 33% yield of compound
(IV) when R is diethylaminopropyl. The amine of compound (IV) is protonated in the
presence of hydrochloride in methanol according to:
           NN          N-HCI                                       'H               'N
                     S                      MeOH                                          R'
                                                                  CI              S
                     (IV)
[0090]       Formation of Carbodiimide
[0091]       Scheme 2 provides the general scheme of photoactivated carbodiimide formation,
e.g. photoinduced formation of hydroxymethyl-phenyl-carbodiimide. Upon radiation
exposure at 248nm the tetrazole thione compounds of formula (I) undergo a ring opening
mechanism and release a carbodiimide compound that can be used to activate the carboxylic
acid groups of amino acids on the substrate. Upon addition of Hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBt)
or 1-hydroxy-7-azabenzotriazole (HOAt) the corresponding esters are formed. The tetrazole
                                               1R

  thione compounds displays an optimal photolysis performance at 248nm and can be used to
  photoactivate an amino acid to forn a stable ester that can efficiently be used for coupling. In
A
  some embodiments, compound (V) is used according to Scheme 2.
D                                            Scheme 2
                      S
                                                hv
           R     N         N                    R-N=C=N-                                R'
       r                   ~-N2.,-S
                   N-N
D
  [0092]      Formulations
A
  [0093]      Disclosed herein are formulations such as photoactive coupling formulations and
  linker formulations. These formulations can be useful in the manufacture and/or use of, e.g.,
  substrates and/or peptide arrays disclosed herein. Generally the components of each
  formulation disclosed herein are soluble in water at room temperature (app. 250 Celsius).
  [0094]      Photactive Coupling Formulations
  [0095]      Disclosed herein are photoactive coupling formulations. In some embodiments, a
  photoactive coupling formulation can include components such as a solvent, a coupling
  reagent or a precursor of a coupling reagent, a coupling molecule, a pbotoactive compound,
  and a polymer. In some embodiments, the coupling reagent is identical to the photoactive
  compound. In some embodiments, the photoactive compound is a carboxylic acid group
  activating compound.
  [0096]      In some embodiments, a polymer is a non-crosslinking inert polymer. In some
  embodiments, a polymer is a polyvinyl pyrrolidone. The general structure of polyvinyl
  pyrrolidone is as follows, where n is any positive integer greater than 1:
                                           0(>0
                                              N
  [0097|      In some embodiments, a polymer is a polymer of vinyl pyrrolidone. In some
  embodiments, a polymer is polyvinyl pyrrolidone. Poly vinyl pyrrollidone is soluble
  in water and other polar solvents. When dry it is a light flaky powder, which generally
  readily absorbs up to 40% of its weight in atmospheric water. In solution, it has excellent
                                                  19

wetting properties and readily forms films. In some embodiments, a polymer is a vinyl
pyrrolidone or a vinyl alcohol. In some embodiments, a polymer is a polymethyl
methacrylate.
[0098]       In some embodiments, a polymer is 2.5-5% by weight of the total formulation
concentration. In some embodiments, a polymer is about 0.5-5% by weight of the total
formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a polymer is about less than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2,
0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3,
2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4,
4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than 5.0% by weight of the total formulation
concentration.
[0099]       In some embodiments, a solvent is water, ethyl lactate, n methyl pyrrollidone or a
combination thereof. In some embodiments, ethyl lactate can be dissolved in water to more
than 50% to form a solvent. In some embodiments, a solvent can be about 10% propylene
glycol methyl ether acetate (PGMEA) and about 90% DI water. In some embodiments, a
solvent can include up to about 20% PGMEA. In some embodiments, a solvent can include
50% ethyl lactate and 50% n methyl pyrrollidone. In some embodiments, a solvent is n
methyl pyrrollidone. In some embodiments, a solvent is water, an organic solvent, or
combination thereof. In some embodiments, the organic solvent is N Methyl pyrrolidone, di
methyl formamide or combinations thereof.
[00100]      In some embodiments, the solvent is about 80-90% by weight of the total
formulation concentration. In some embodiments, the solvent is about less than 70, 70, 71,
72,73,74,75,76,77,78,79,80,81,82,83,84,85,86,87,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,95,96,
97, 98, 99, or greater than 99% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
[00101]      The photoactive coupling formulation comprises coupling molecules. The
coupling molecules can include amino acids. In some instances all peptides on an array
described herein are composed of naturally occurring amino acids. In others, peptides on an
array described herein can be composed of a combination of naturally occurring amino acids
and non-naturally occurring amino acids. In other cases, peptides on an array can be
composed solely from non-naturally occurring amino acids. Non-naturally occurring amino
acids include peptidomimetics as well as D-amino acids. The R group can be found on a
natural amino acid or a group that is similar in size to a natural amino acid R group.
Additionally, unnatural amino acids, such as beta-alanine, phenylglycine, homoarginine,
aminobutyric acid, aminohexanoic acid, aminoisobutyric acid, butylglycine, citrulline,
cyclohexylalanine, diaminopropionic acid, hydroxyproline, norleucine, norvaline, ornithine,
                                                    90n

penicillamine, pyroglutamic acid, sarcosine, and thienylalanine can also be incorporated.
These and other natural and unnatural amino acids are available from, for example, EMD
Biosciences, Inc., San Diego, Calif. In some embodiments, a coupling molecule comprises a
naturally occurring or artificial amino acid or polypeptide. Examples of coupling molecules
include Boc-Glycine-OH and Boc-Histidine-OH. In some embodiments, the artificial amino
acid is a D-amino acid. In some embodiments, a coupling molecule is 1-2% by weight of the
total formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a coupling molecule is about 0.5-5%
by weight of the total formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a coupling molecule
is about less than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6,
1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7,
3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than 5.0% by weight of
the total formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a coupling molecule comprises a
protected group, e.g., a group protected via t-Boc or F-Moc (or fmoc) chemistry. In most
instances, increasing the concentration of a coupling molecule provides the best performance.
[00102]      In some embodiments, a coupling reagent is carbodiimide or triazole. In some
embodiments, a coupling reagent is 24% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
In some embodiments, a coupling reagent is about 0.5-5% by weight of the total formulation
concentration. In some embodiments, a coupling reagent is about less than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3,
0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4,
2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5,
4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than 5.0% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
[00103]      In any of the combinations above, the formulation can be completely water
strippable. Thus, in some embodiments, water can be used to wash away the photoactive
coupling formulation after exposure.
[00104]      Carboxylic Acid Activating Formulations
[00105]      Disclosed herein are activating formulations for activating carboxylic acid so that
it reacts with a free amino group of a biomolecule, e.g., an amino acid, peptide, or
polypeptide. An activating formulation can include components such as a carboxylic acid
group activating compound and a solvent. In some embodiments, the carboxylic acid group
activating compound is a carbodiimide or a carbodiimide precursor. In some embodiments,
the carbodiimide is 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-3-(3-diethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide. In some
embodiments, the carboxylic acid group activating compound is selected from: 1-Ethyl-3-(3
dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide [EDC], N-hydroxysuccinimide [NHS], 1,3
Diisopropylcarbodiimide [DIC], hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBt), (0-(7-azabenzotriazol-1-yl)
                                                     21

N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate) [HATU], benzotriazol-1-yl
oxytripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate [PyBOP], and N,N
Diisopropylethylamine [DIEA]. In some embodiments, the solvent is water. In some
embodiments, the solvent is N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP). In some embodiments, the
carboxylic acid group activating compound converts the carboxylic acid to a carbonyl group
(i.e., carboxylic acid group activation). In some embodiments, the carboxylic acid group is
activated for 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 45, or 60 minutes after exposure to an activation formulation.
[00106]      In some embodiments, the activating formulation comprises 4 % by weight of 1
ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide and 2 % by weight of N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) dissolved in deionized water. In some embodiments, the
activating formulation comprises 4 % by weight of 1,3-Diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC) and 2
% by weight of hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBt) dissolved in NMP. In some embodiments, the
activating formulation comprises 4 % by weight of (0-(7-azabenzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N',N'
tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate) (HATU) and 2 % by weight of N,N
Diisopropylethylamine (DIEA) dissolved in NMP. In some embodiments, the activating
formulation comprises 4 % by weight of Benzotriazol-1-yl-oxytripyrrolidinophosphonium
hexafluorophosphate (PyBOP) and 2 % by weight of DIEA dissolved in NMP.
[00107]      In some embodiments, the carboxylic acid group activating compound is a
carbodiimide precursor. In one aspect, the carbodiimide precursor is converted to a
carbodiimide through exposure to radiation, e.g., ultraviolet radiation. In one embodiment,
the carbodiimide precursor is a thione. The carbodiimide precursor can also be referred to as
a photoactivated carbodiimide. In one embodiment, photoactivated carbodiimides are used to
provide site-specific activation of carboxylic acid groups on an array by spatially controlling
exposure of the photoactivated carbodiimide solution to electromagnetic radiation at a
preferred activation wavelength. In some embodiments, the preferred activation wavelength
is 248 nm.
[00108]      In one embodiment, the carbodiimide precursor is a thione that is converted to
carbodiimide via photoactivation. In one aspect, the thione is converted to a hydroxymethyl
phenyl carbodiimide after exposure to electromagnetic radiation. In some embodiments, the
thione is 1-(3-(dimethylamino)propyl)-4-ethyl-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione,      and others
as shown in Table 1.
[00109]      In some embodiments, the activating solution comprises a carbodiimide precursor,
a solvent, and a polymer. In one embodiment, the carbodiimide precursor is 1-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)-4-ethyl-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione.      In some embodiments,
                                                9Y9

the carbodiimide precursor is present in the activation solution at a concentration of 2.5% by
weight. In some embodiments the carbodiimide precursor is present in the activation solution
at a concentration of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6,
1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7,
3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or 5.0% by weight of the total
formulation concentration.
[00110]      In some embodiments, the solvent is water. In some embodiments, the solvent is
about 80-90% by weight of the total formulation concentration. In some embodiments, the
solvent is about less than 70, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86,
87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or greater than 99% by weight of the total
formulation concentration.
[00111]      In some embodiments, a polymer is a polyvinyl pyrrolidone and/or a polyvinyl
alcohol. In some embodiments, a polymer is about 0.5-5% by weight of the total formulation
concentration. In some embodiments, a polymer is about less than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5,
0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6,
2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7,
4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than 5.0% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
[00112]      In some embodiments, a coupling reagent is a carbodiimide. In some
embodiments, a coupling reagent is a triazole. In some embodiments, a coupling reagent is 1
ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide. In some embodiments, a coupling reagent is
about 0.5-5% by weight of the total formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a
coupling reagent is about less than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2,
1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3,
3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than
5.0% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
[00113]      Linker Formulations
[00114]      Also disclosed herein is a linker formulation. A linker formulation can include
components such as a solvent, a polymer, a linker molecule, and a coupling reagent. In some
embodiments, the polymer is 1% by weight polyvinyl alcohol and 2.5 % by weight poly vinyl
pyrrollidone, the linker molecule is 1.25% by weight polyethylene oxide, the coupling
reagent is 1% by weight 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide, and the solvent
includes water. In some embodiments, the polymer is 0.5-5% by weight polyvinyl alcohol
and 0.5-5% by weight poly vinyl pyrrollidone, the linker molecule is 0.5-5% by weight
polyethylene oxide, the coupling reagent is 0.5-5% by weight 1-ethyl-3-(3-

dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide, and the solvent includes water.
[00115]      In some embodiments, the solvent is water, an organic solvent, or a combination
thereof. In some embodiments, the organic solvent is N methyl pyrrolidone, dimethyl
formamide, dichloromethane, dimethyl sulfoxide, or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the solvent is about 80-90% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
In some embodiments, the solvent is about less than 70, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79,
80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or greater than
99% by weight of the total formulation concentration.
[00116]      In some embodiments, a polymer is a polyvinyl pyrrolidone and/or a polyvinyl
alcohol. The general structure of polyvinyl alcohol is as follows, where n is any positive
integer greater than 1:
                                                             n
                                                       OH
[00117]      In some embodiments, a polymer is about 0.5-5% by weight of the total
formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a polymer is about less than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2,
0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3,
2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4,
4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than 5.0% by weight of the total formulation
concentration.
[00118]      A linker molecule can be a molecule inserted between a surface disclosed herein
and peptide that is being synthesized via a coupling molecule. A linker molecule does not
necessarily convey functionality to the resulting peptide, such as molecular recognition
functionality, but can instead elongate the distance between the surface and the peptide to
enhance the exposure of the peptide's functionality region(s) on the surface. In some
embodiments, a linker can be about 4 to about 40 atoms long to provide exposure. The linker
molecules can be, for example, aryl acetylene, ethylene glycol oligomers containing 2-10
monomer units (PEGs), diamines, diacids, amino acids, and combinations thereof. Examples
of diamines include ethylene diamine (EDA) and diamino propane. Alternatively, linkers can
be the same molecule type as that being synthesized (e.g., nascent polymers or various
coupling molecules), such as polypeptides and polymers of amino acid derivatives such as for
example, amino hexanoic acids. In some embodiments, a linker molecule is a molecule
having a carboxylic group at a first end of the molecule and a protecting group at a second
                                                    24

end of the molecule. In some embodiments, the protecting group is a t-Boc protecting group
or an Fmoc protecting group. In some embodiments, a linker molecule is or includes an aryl
acetylene, a polyethyleneglycol, a nascent polypeptide, a diamine, a diacid, a peptide, or
combinations thereof. In some embodiments, a linker molecule is about 0.5-5% by weight of
the total formulation concentration. In some embodiments, a linker molecule is about less
than 0.1, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3., 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9,
2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4.0,
4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 5.0, or greater than 5.0% by weight of the total
formulation concentration.
[00119]      The unbound (or free end) portion of a linker molecule can have a reactive
functional group which is blocked, protected, or otherwise made unavailable for reaction by a
removable protecting group. The protecting group can be bound to a linker molecule to
protect a reactive functionality on the linker molecule. Protecting groups that can be used
include all acid- and base-labile protecting groups. For example, linker amine groups can be
protected by t-butoxycarbonyl (t-BOC or BOC) or benzyloxycarbonyl (CBZ), both of which
are acid labile, or by 9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (FMOC), which is base labile.
[00120]      Additional protecting groups that can be used include acid-labile groups for
protecting amino moieties: tert-amyloxycarbonyl, adamantyloxycarbonyl, 1
methylcyclobutyloxycarbonyl, 2-(p-biphenyl)propyl(2)oxycarbonyl, 2-(p
phenylazophenylyl)propyl(2)oxycarbonyl, alpha,alpha-dimethyl-3,5 -dimethyloxybenzyloxy
carbonyl, 2-phenylpropyl(2)oxycarbonyl, 4-methyloxybenzyloxycarbonyl,
furfuryloxycarbonyl, triphenylmethyl (trityl), p-toluenesulfenylaminocarbonyl,
dimethylphosphinothioyl, diphenylphosphinothioyl, 2-benzoyl-1-methylvinyl, o
nitrophenylsulfenyl, and 1-naphthylidene; as base labile groups for protecting amino
moieties: 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl, methylsulfonylethyloxycarbonyl, and 5
benzisoazolylmethyleneoxycarbonyl; as groups for protecting amino moieties that are labile
when reduced: dithiasuccinoyl, p-toluene sulfonyl, and piperidino-oxycarbonyl; as groups for
protecting amino moieties that are labile when oxidized: (ethylthio)carbonyl; as groups for
protecting amino moieties that are labile to miscellaneous reagents, the appropriate agent is
listed in parenthesis after the group: phthaloyl (hydrazine), trifluoroacetyl (piperidine), and
chloroacetyl (2-aminothiophenol); acid-labile groups for protecting carboxylic acids: tert
butyl ester; acid labile groups for protecting hydroxyl groups: dimethyltrityl. See also,
Greene, T. W., Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, Wiley-Interscience, NY, (1981).
[00121]      Substrates

[00122]      Also disclosed herein are substrates. In some embodiments a substrate surface is
planar (i.e., 2-dimensional). In some embodiments a substrate surface is functionalized with
free carboxylic acid groups. In some embodiments, a substrate surface is functionalized with
free amine groups. A surface that is functionalized with free amine groups can be converted
to free carboxylic acid groups by reacting with activating the carboxylic acid groups of a
molecule comprising at least two free carboxylic acid groups (e.g., converting the carboxylic
acid group to a carbonyl group using carbodiimide) and reacting the molecule with the free
amine groups attached to the surface of the substrate. In some embodiments, the molecule
comprising multiple carboxylic acid groups is succinic anhydride, polyethylene glycol diacid,
benzene-1,3,5-tricarboxylic acid, benzenehexacarboxylic acid, or carboxymethyl dextran.
[00123]      In some embodiments, a substrate can include a porous layer (i.e., a 3-dimensional
layer) comprising functional groups for binding a first monomer building block. In some
embodiments, a substrate surface comprises pillars for peptide attachment or synthesis. In
some embodiments, a porous layer is added to the top of the pillars.
[00124]      Porous Layer Substrates
[00125]      Porous layers that can be used are flat, permeable, polymeric materials of porous
structure that have a carboxylic acid functional group (that is native to the constituent
polymer or that is introduced to the porous layer) for attachment of the first peptide building
block. For example, a porous layer can be comprised of porous silicon with functional
groups for attachment of a polymer building block attached to the surface of the porous
silicon. In another example, a porous layer can comprise a cross-linked polymeric material.
In some embodiments, the porous layer can employ polystyrenes, saccharose, dextrans,
polyacryloylmorpholine, polyacrylates, polymethylacrylates, polyacrylamides,
polyacrylolpyrrolidone, polyvinylacetates, polyethyleneglycol, agaroses, sepharose, other
conventional chromatography type materials and derivatives and mixtures thereof. In some
embodiments, the porous layer building material is selected from: poly(vinyl alcohol),
dextran, sodium alginate, poly(aspartic acid), poly(ethylene glycol), poly(ethylene oxide),
poly(vinyl pyrrolidone), poly(acrylic acid), poly(acrylic acid)-sodium salt, poly(acrylamide),
poly(N-isopropyl acrylamide), poly(hydroxyethyl acrylate), poly(acrylic acid), poly(sodium
styrene sulfonate), poly(2-acrylamido-2-methyl-l-propanesulfonic acid), polysaccharides, and
cellulose derivatives. Preferably the porous layer has a porosity of 10-80%. In one
embodiment, the thickness of the porous layer ranges from 0.01 pm to about 1,000 pim. Pore
sizes included in the porous layer may range from 2 nm to about 100 pim.
[00126]      According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a

substrate comprising a porous polymeric material having a porosity from 10-80%, wherein
reactive groups are chemically bound to the pore surfaces and are adapted in use to interact,
e.g. by binding chemically, with a reactive species, e.g., deprotected monomeric building
blocks or polymeric chains. In one embodiment the reactive group is a carboxylic acid
group. The carboxylic acid group is free to bind, for example, an unprotected amine group of
a peptide or polypeptide.
[00127]      In an embodiment, the porous layer is in contact with a support layer. The support
layer comprises, for example, metal, plastic, silicon, silicon oxide, or silicon nitride. In
another embodiment, the porous layer can be in contact with a patterned surface, such as on
top of pillar substrates described below.
[00128]      Pillar substrates
[00129]      In some embodiments, a substrate can include a planar layer comprising a metal or
silicon and having an upper surface and a lower surface; and a plurality of pillars operatively
coupled to the layer in positionally-defined locations, wherein each pillar has a planar surface
extended from the layer, wherein the distance between the surface of each pillar and the
upper surface of the layer is between about 1,000-5,000 angstroms, and wherein the plurality
of pillars are present at a density of greater than about 10,000/ cm 2 .
[00130]      In some embodiments, the distance between the surface of each pillar and the
upper surface of the later can be between about less than 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 3,500, 4,500,
5,000, or greater than 5,000 angstroms (or any integer in between).
[00131]      In some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is parallel to the upper surface of
the layer. In some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is substantially parallel to the
upper surface of the layer.
[00132]      In some embodiments, the plurality of pillars are present at a density of greater
than 500, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 9,000, 10,000, 11,000, or
12,000/cm 2 (or any integer in between). In some embodiments, the plurality of pillars are
                                                  2
present at a density of greater than 10,000/cm . In some embodiments, the plurality of pillars
are present at a density of about 10,000/cm 2 to about 2.5 million/cm2 (or any integer in
between). In some embodiments, the plurality of pillars are present at a density of greater
than 2.5 million/cm2 .
[00133]      In some embodiments, the surface area of each pillar surface is at least 1 pm 2. In
some embodiments, the surface area of each pillar surface can be at least 0.1, 0.5, 12, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50 pm 2 (or any integer in between). In some
                                                  9)7

embodiments, the surface area of each pillar surface has a total area of less than 10,000 jm     2
In some embodiments, the surface area of each pillar surface has a total area of less than 500,
1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 9,000, 10,000, 11,000, or 12,000 pm2
(or any integer in between).
[00134]     In some embodiments, the distance between the surface of each pillar and the
lower surface of the layer is 2,000-7,000 angstroms. In some embodiments, the distance
between the surface of each pillar and the lower surface of the layer is about less than 500,
1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 9,000, 10,000, 11,000, 12,000, or
greater than 12,000 angstroms (or any integer in between). In some embodiments, the
distance between the surface of each pillar and the lower surface of the layer is 7,000, 3,000,
4,000, 5,000, 6,000, or 7,000 angstroms (or any integer in between).
[00135]     In some embodiments, the layer is 1,000-2,000 angstroms thick. In some
embodiments, the layer is about less than 500, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 6,000,
7,000, 8,000, 9,000, 10,000, 11,000, 12,000, or greater than 12,000 angstroms thick (or any
integer in between).
[00136]     In some embodiments, the center of each pillar is at least 2,000 angstroms from
the center of any other pillar. In some embodiments, the center of each pillar is at least about
500, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, or 4,000 angstroms (or any integer in between) from the center of
any other pillar. In some embodiments, the center of each pillar is at least about 2 pM to 200
 tm from the center of any other pillar.
[00137]     In some embodiments, at least one or each pillar comprises silicon. In some
embodiments, at least one or each pillar comprises silicon dioxide or silicon nitride. In some
embodiments, at least one or each pillar is at least 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 98.5, or
99% (by weight) silicon dioxide.
[00138]     In some embodiments, a substrate can include a linker molecule having a free
amino terminus attached to the surface of each pillar. In some embodiments, a substrate can
include a linker molecule having a free amino terminus attached to the surface of at least one
pillar. In some embodiments, a substrate can include a linker molecule having a protecting
group attached to the surface of each pillar. In some embodiments, a substrate can include a
linker molecule having a protecting group attached to the surface of at least one pillar. In
some embodiments, a substrate can include a coupling molecule attached to the surface of at
least one pillar. In some embodiments, a substrate can include a coupling molecule attached
to the surface of each pillar. In some embodiments, a substrate can include a polymer in

contact with the surface of at least one of the pillars. In some embodiments, a substrate can
include a polymer in contact with the surface of each pillar. In some embodiments, a
substrate can include a gelatinous form of a polymer in contact with the surface of at least
one of the pillars. In some embodiments, a substrate can include a solid form of a polymer
in contact with the surface of at least one of the pillars.
[00139]      In some embodiments, the surface of at least one of the pillars of the substrate is
derivatized. In some embodiments, a substrate can include a polymer chain attached to the
surface of at least one of the pillars. In some embodiments, the polymer chain comprises a
peptide chain. In some embodiments, the attachment to the surface of the at least one pillar is
via a covalent bond.
[00140]      In some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is square or rectangular in shape.
In some embodiments, the substrate can be coupled to a silicon dioxide layer. The silicon
dioxide layer can be about 0.5 pm to 3 pm thick. In some embodiments, the substrate can be
coupled to a wafer, e.g., a silicon wafer. The silicon dioxide layer can be about 700 Pim to
750 ptm thick.
[00141]      Arrays
[00142]      Also disclosed herein are arrays. In some embodiments, the surface of the array is
functionalized with free carboxylic acids. In some embodiments, the free carboxylic acids
are activated to bind to amine groups, e.g., during polypeptide synthesis on the surface of the
array. In some embodiments, the surface density of free carboxylic acid groups on the array
is greater than 10/cm 2 , 100/ cm 2 , 1,000/ cm 2 , 10,000/ cm 2 , 100,000/ cm 2 , 1,000,000/ cm 2 , or
10,000,000/ cm2 .
[00143]      In some embodiments, an array can be a three-dimensional array, e.g., a porous
array comprising features attached to the surface of the porous array. In some embodiments,
the surface of a porous array includes external surfaces and surfaces defining pore volume
within the porous array. In some embodiments, a three-dimensional array can include
features attached to a surface at positionally-defined locations, said features each comprising:
a collection of peptide chains of determinable sequence and intended length. In one
embodiment, within an individual feature, the fraction of peptide chains within said collection
having the intended length is characterized by an average coupling efficiency for each
coupling step of greater than 98%.
[00144]      In some embodiments, the average coupling efficiency for each coupling step is at
least 98.5%. In some embodiments, the average coupling efficiency for each coupling step is
                                                    9)0

at least 99%. In some embodiments, the average coupling efficiency for each coupling step is
at least 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 98.5, 98.6,98.7, 98.8, 98.9, 99.0, 99.1, 99.2, 99.3,
99.4, 99.5, 99.6, 99.7, 99.8, 99.9, or 100%.
[00145]      In some embodiments, each peptide chain is from 5 to 60 amino acids in length.
In some embodiments, each peptide chain is at least 5 amino acids in length. In some
embodiments, each peptide chain is at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60
amino acids in length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain is less than 5, at least 5, 6,
7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,
33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,55,56,57,
58, 59, 60, or greater than 60 amino acids in length. In some embodiments, each peptide
chain comprises one or more L amino acids. In some embodiments, each peptide chain
comprises one or more D amino acids. In some embodiments, each peptide chain comprises
one or more naturally occurring amino acids. In some embodiments, each peptide chain
comprises one or more synthetic amino acids.
[00146]      In some embodiments, an array can include at least 1,000 different peptide chains
attached to the surface. In some embodiments, an array can include at least 10,000 different
peptide chains attached to the surface. In some embodiments, an array can include at least
100, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000, 9000, 10,000, or greater than
10,000 different peptide chains attached to the surface (or any integer in between).
[00147]      In some embodiments, each of the positionally-defined locations is at a different,
known location that is physically separated from each of the other positionally-defined
locations. In some embodiments, each of the positionally-defined locations is a positionally
distinguishable location. In some embodiments, each determinable sequence is a known
sequence. In some embodiments, each determinable sequence is a distinct sequence.
[00148]      In some embodiments, the features are covalently attached to the surface. In some
embodiments, said peptide chains are attached to the surface through a linker molecule or a
coupling molecule.
[00149]      In some embodiments, the features comprise a plurality of distinct, nested,
overlapping peptide chains comprising subsequences derived from a source protein having a
known sequence. In some embodiments, each peptide chain in the plurality is substantially
the same length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain in the plurality is the same
length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain in the plurality is at least 5 amino acids in
length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain in the plurality is at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25,
30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60 amino acids in length. In some embodiments, each peptide chain

inthe plurality isless than 5, at least 5, 6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,
47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, or greater than 60 amino acids in length.
In some embodiments, at least one peptide chain in the plurality is at least 5 amino acids in
length. In some embodiments, at least one peptide chain in the plurality is at least 5, 10, 15,
20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, or 60 amino acids in length. In some embodiments, at least one
peptide chain in the plurality is less than 5, at least 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,
43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, or greater than 60 amino
acids in length. In some embodiments, each polypeptide in a feature is substantially the same
length. In some embodiments, each polypeptide in a feature is the same length. In some
embodiments, the features comprise a plurality of peptide chains each having a random,
determinable sequence of amino acids.
[00150]     Methods
[00151]     Methods of Manufacturing Substrates
[00152]     Also disclosed herein are methods for making substrates. In some embodiments,
a method of producing a substrate can include coupling a porous layer to a support layer. The
support layer can comprise any metal or plastic or silicon or silicon oxide or silicon nitride.
In one embodiment, the substrate comprises multiple carboxylic acid substrates attached to
the substrate for binding peptides during peptide synthesis and protein coupling. In some
embodiments, a method of producing a substrate can include coupling a porous layer to a
plurality of pillars, wherein the porous layer comprises functional groups for attachment of a
compound to the substrate, wherein the plurality of pillars are coupled to a planar layer in
positionally-defined locations, wherein each pillar has a planar surface extended from the
planar layer, wherein the distance between the surface of each pillar and the upper surface of
the planar layer is between about 1,000-5,000 angstroms, and wherein the plurality of pillars
are present at a density of greater than about 10,000/ cm 2 .
[00153]     In some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is parallel to the upper surface of
the planar layer. In some embodiments, the surface of each pillar is substantially parallel to
the upper surface of the planar layer.
[00154]     In some embodiments, a method of preparing a substrate surface can include
obtaining a surface comprising silicon dioxide and contacting the surface with a photoactive
coupling formulation comprising a photoactive compound, a coupling molecule, a coupling
reagent, a polymer, and a solvent; and applying ultraviolet light to positionally-defined
                                                  21

locations located on the top of the surface and in contact with the photoactive formulation.
[00155]     Methods of Manufacturing Arrays
[00156]     Also disclosed herein are methods for manufacturing arrays. In some
embodiments, the arrays disclosed herein can be synthesized in situ on a surface, e.g., a
substrate disclosed herein. In some instances, the arrays are made using photolithography.
For example, the substrate is contacted with a photoactive coupling solution. Masks can be
used to control radiation or light exposure to specific locations on a surface provided with
free linker molecules or free coupling molecules having protecting groups. In the exposed
locations, the protecting groups are removed, resulting in one or more newly exposed reactive
moieties on the coupling molecule or linker molecule. The desired linker or coupling
molecule is then coupled to the unprotected attached molecules, e.g., at the carboxylic acid
group. The process can be repeated to synthesize a large number of features in specific or
positionally-defined locations on a surface (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,143,854 to
Pirrung et al., U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2007/0154946 (filed on Dec. 29,
2005), 2007/0122841 (filed on Nov. 30, 2005), 2007/0122842 (filed on Mar. 30, 2006),
2008/0108149 (filed on Oct. 23, 2006), and 2010/0093554 (filed on June 2, 2008), each of
which is herein incorporated by reference).
[00157]     In some embodiments, a method of producing a three-dimensional (e.g., porous)
array of features, can include obtaining a porous layer attached to a surface; and attaching the
features to the porous layer, said features each comprising a collection of peptide chains of
determinable sequence and intended length, wherein within an individual feature, the fraction
of peptide chains within said collection having the intended length is characterized by an
average coupling efficiency for each coupling step of at least about 98%. In some
embodiments, the features are attached to the surface using a photoactive coupling
formulation, comprising a photoactive compound, a coupling molecule, a coupling reagent, a
polymer, and a solvent. In some embodiments, the features are attached to the surface using
a photoactive coupling formulation disclosed herein. In some embodiments, the photoactive
coupling formulation is stripped away using water.
[00158]     In one embodiment, described herein is a process of manufacturing an array. A
surface comprising attached carboxylic acid groups is provided. The surface is contacted
with a photoactive coupling solution comprising a photoactive compound, a coupling
molecule, a coupling reagent, a polymer, and a solvent. The surface is exposed to ultraviolet
light in a deep ultra violet scanner tool according to a pattern defined by a photomask,
wherein the locations exposed to ultraviolet light undergo photo base generation due to the

presence of a photobase generator in the photoactive coupling solution. The expose energy
can be from 1mJ/cm 2 to 100mJ/cm2 in order to produce enough photobase.
[00159]     The surface is post baked upon exposure in a post exposure bake module. Post
exposure bake acts as a chemical amplification step. The baking step amplifies the initially
generated photobase and also enhances the rate of diffusion to the substrate. The post bake
temperature can vary between 75'C to 1 15'C, depending on the thickness of the porous
surface, for at least 60 seconds and not usually exceeding 120 seconds. The free carboxylic
acid group is coupled to the deprotected amine group of a free peptide or polypeptide,
resulting in coupling of the free peptide or polypeptide to the carboxylic acid group attached
to the surface. This surface may be a porous surface. The synthesis of peptides coupled to a
carboxylic acid group attached to the surface occurs in an N-+C synthesis orientation, with
the amine group of free peptides attaching to carboxylic acid groups bound to the surface of
the substrate. Alternatively, a diamine linker may be attached to a free carboxylic acid group
to orient synthesis in a C-+N direction, with the carboxylic acid group of free peptides
attaching to amine groups bound to the surface of the substrate.
[00160]     The photoactive coupling solution can now be stripped away. In some
embodiments, provided herein is a method of stripping the photoresist completely with
deionized (DI) water. This process is accomplished in a developer module. The wafer is spun
on a vacuum chuck for, e.g., 60 seconds to 90 seconds and deionized water is dispensed
through a nozzle for about 30 seconds.
[00161]     The photoactive coupling formulation can be applied to the surface in a coupling
spin module. A coupling spin module can typically have 20 nozzles or more to feed the
photoactive coupling formulation. These nozzles can be made to dispense the photoactive
coupling formulation by means of pressurizing the cylinders that hold these solutions or by a
pump that dispenses the required amount. In some embodiments, the pump is employed to
dispense 5-8 cc of the photoactive coupling formulation onto the substrate. The substrate is
spun on a vacuum chuck for 15-30 seconds and the photoactive coupling formulation is
dispensed. The spin speed can be set to 2000 to 2500 rpm.
[00162]     Optionally, a cap film solution coat is applied on the surface to prevent the
unreacted amino groups on the substrate from reacting with the next coupling molecule. The
cap film coat solution can be prepared as follows: a solvent, a polymer, and a coupling
molecule. The solvent that can be used can be an organic solvent like N methyl pyrrolidone,
dimethyl formamide, or combinations thereof. The capping molecule is typically acetic
anhydride and the polymer can be polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, polymethyl

methacrylate, poly (methyl iso propenyl) ketone, or poly (2 methyl pentene 1 sulfone). In
some embodiments, the capping molecule is ethanolamine.
[00163]     This process is done in a capping spin module. A capping spin module can
include one nozzle that can be made to dispense the cap film coat solution onto the substrate.
This solution can be dispensed through pressurizing the cylinder that stores the cap film coat
solution or through a pump that precisely dispenses the required amount. In some
embodiments, a pump is used to dispense around 5-8 cc of the cap coat solution onto the
substrate. The substrate is spun on a vacuum chuck for 15-30 s and the coupling formulation
is dispensed. The spin speed can be set to 2000 to 2500 rpm.
[00164]     The substrates with the capping solution are baked in a cap bake module. A
capping bake module is a hot plate set up specifically to receive wafers just after the capping
film coat is applied. In some embodiments, provided herein is a method of baking the spin
coated capping coat solution in a hot plate to accelerate the capping reaction significantly.
Hot plate baking generally reduces the capping time for amino acids to less than two minutes.
[00165]     The byproducts of the capping reaction are stripped in a stripper module. A
stripper module can include several nozzles, typically up to 10, set up to dispense organic
solvents such as acetone, iso propyl alcohol, N methyl pyrrolidone, dimethyl formamide, DI
water, etc. In some embodiments, the nozzles can be designated for acetone followed by iso
propyl alcohol to be dispensed onto the spinning wafer. The spin speed is set to be 2000 to
2500 rpm for around 20 s.
[00166]     This entire cycle can be repeated as desired with different coupling molecules
each time to obtain a desired sequence.
[00167]     In some embodiments, an array comprising a surface of free carboxylic acids is
used to synthesize polypeptides in an N--C orientation. In one embodiment, the carboxylic
acids on the surface of the substrate are activated (e.g., converted to a carbonyl) to allow
them to bind to free amine groups on an amino acid. In one embodiment, activation of
carboxylic acids on the group of the surface can be done by addition of a solution comprising
a carbodiimide or succinimide to the surface of the array. In some embodiments, carboxylic
acids can be activated by addition of a solution comprising 1-ethyl-3-(3
dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide [EDC], N-hydroxysuccinimide [NHS], 1,3
diisopropylcarbodiimide [DIC], hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBt), (0-(7-azabenzotriazol-1-yl)
N,N,N ',N'-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate) [HATU], benzotriazol-1-yl
oxytripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate [PyBOP], or N,N-diisopropylethylamine
[DIEA] to the surface of the array. The activation solution is washed away and the surface of
                                                  1A

the array is prepared for addition of an amino acid layer (i.e., one amino acid at each
activated carboxylic acid group). Carboxylic acid groups remain activated for up to 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 hours.
[00168]      Addition of a solution comprising an amino acid with a free amine group to the
activated carboxylic acid surface of the array results in binding of a single amino acid to each
carboxylic acid group. In some embodiments, the amino acid comprises an amino acid with
protected amine groups. Using a photosensitive chemical reaction, the protecting group can
be removed from the amine group of selected amino acids at site-specific locations using a
reticle. For example, Fmoc-protected amino acids are mixed in a solution comprising a
photobase generator. Upon exposure of the solution on the array to a specific frequency of
light at site-specific locations, the photobase generator will release a base which will
deprotect the amino acid, resulting in coupling of the amino acid to the activated carboxylic
acid group on the surface of the array. Another method involves using a protected base that
is then unprotected by a photoacid released by a photoacid generator upon light exposure. In
some embodiments, the protected base is N-Boc-piperidine or 1,4-bis(N-Boc)-piperazine.
[00169]      After a completed layer of amino acids is coupled, remaining uncoupled activated
carboxylic acids are capped to prevent nonspecific binding of amino acids on subsequent
synthesis steps. The steps of activation, addition of an amino acid layer, and capping are
repeated as necessary to synthesize the desired polypeptides at specific locations on the array.
[00170]      In one embodiment, peptides synthesized in the N+C terminus direction can be
capped with a diamine molecule to enhance binding properties of selected polypeptide
sequences to a biological molecule, e.g., an antibody. In other embodiments, peptides
synthesized in the C-+N direction can be capped with a dicarboxylic acid molecule to
enhance binding properties of selected sequences to a biological molecule.
[00171]      While synthesizing polypeptides in parallel on the surface of an array, the method
described herein ensures complete activation of carboxylic acid on the surface of the array.
Due to stability of the activated ester for an extended period of time, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 or more coupling cycles may be
completed after a single activation step (e.g., to couple an entire layer of 2-25 or more
different amino acids at different locations on the array). As the coupling occurs during hard
bake (heating in a hot plate at 85-90' Celsius for 90 seconds immediately after coating) and
due to the presence of excess amino acid in the solution, complete 100% deprotection of
Fmoc-protected amino acid may not be required for significantly high coupling yields. After
addition of all amino acids and capping, all free activated carboxylic acids are either coupled

or capped, thus resulting in high efficiency and accuracy of polypeptide synthesis.
Methods of Use of Peptide Arrays
[00172]     Also disclosed herein are methods of using substrates, formulations, and/or arrays.
Uses of the arrays disclosed herein can include research applications, therapeutic purposes,
medical diagnostics, and/or stratifying one or more patients.
[00173]     Any of the arrays described herein can be used as a research tool or in a research
application. In one aspect, arrays can be used for high throughput screening assays. For
example, enzyme substrates (i.e., peptides on a peptide array described herein) can be tested
by subjecting the array to an enzyme and identifying the presence or absence of enzyme
substrate(s) on the array, e.g., by detecting at least one change among the features of the
array.
[00174]     Arrays can also be used in screening assays for ligand binding, to determine
substrate specificity, or for the identification of peptides that inhibit or activate proteins.
Labeling techniques, protease assays, as well as binding assays useful for carrying out these
methodologies are generally well-known to one of skill in the art.
[00175]     In some embodiments, an array can be used to represent a known protein sequence
as a sequence of overlapping peptides. For example, the amino acid sequence of a known
protein is divided into overlapping sequence segments of any length and of any suitable
overlapping frame, and peptides corresponding to the respective sequence segments are in
situ synthesized as disclosed herein. The individual peptide segments so synthesized can be
arranged starting from the amino terminus of the known protein.
[00176]     In some embodiments, an array is used in a method wherein the antigenic
representation of the array includes at least one region where the whole antigen sequence of a
known protein is spanned via epitope sliding; the immunoactive regions of the antigen are
determined by contacting one or more clinical samples on the array or a plurality of different
arrays, and the set of peptide sequences required to represent the known protein antigen are
reduced.
[00177]     In some embodiments, a sample is applied to an array having a plurality of
random peptides. The random peptides can be screened and BLASTed to determine
homologous domains with, e.g., a 90% or more identity to a given antigenic sequence. In
some aspect, the whole antigenic sequence can then be synthesized and used to identify
potential markers and/or causes of a disease of interest.
[00178]     In some embodiments, an array is used for high throughput screening of one or
more genetic factors. Proteins associated with a gene can be a potential antigen and

antibodies against these proteins can be used to estimate the relation between gene and a
disease.
[00179]      In another example, an array can be used to identify one or more biomarkers.
Biomarkers can be used for the diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, and management of diseases.
Biomarkers may be expressed, or absent, or at a different level in an individual, depending on
the disease condition, stage of the disease, and response to disease treatment. Biomarkers can
be, e.g., DNA, RNA, proteins (e.g., enzymes such as kinases), sugars, salts, fats, lipids, or
ions.
[00180]      Arrays can also be used for therapeutic purposes, e.g., identifying one or more
bioactive agents. A method for identifying a bioactive agent can comprise applying a
plurality of test compounds to an array and identifying at least one test compound as a
bioactive agent. The test compounds can be small molecules, aptamers, oligonucleotides,
chemicals, natural extracts, peptides, proteins, fragment of antibodies, antibody like
molecules or antibodies. The bioactive agent can be a therapeutic agent or modifier of
therapeutic targets. Therapeutic targets can include phosphatases, proteases, ligases, signal
transduction molecules, transcription factors, protein transporters, protein sorters, cell surface
receptors, secreted factors, and cytoskeleton proteins.
[00181]      In another aspect, an array can be used to identify drug candidates for therapeutic
use. For example, when one or more epitopes for specific antibodies are determined by an
assay (e.g., a binding assay such as an ELISA), the epitopes can be used to develop a drug
(e.g., a monoclonal neutralizing antibody) to target antibodies in disease.
[00182]      In one aspect, also provided are arrays for use in medical diagnostics. An array
can be used to determine a response to administration of drugs or vaccines. For example, an
individual's response to a vaccine can be determined by detecting the antibody level of the
individual by using an array with peptides representing epitopes recognized by the antibodies
produced by the induced immune response. Another diagnostic use is to test an individual for
the presence of biomarkers, wherein samples are taken from a subject and the sample is tested
for the presence of one or more biomarkers.
[00183]      Arrays can also be used to stratify patient populations based upon the presence or
absence of a biomarker that indicates the likelihood a subject will respond to a therapeutic
treatment. The arrays can be used to identify known biomarkers to determine the appropriate
treatment group. For example, a sample from a subject with a condition can be applied to an
array. Binding to the array may indicate the presence of a biomarker for a condition.
Previous studies may indicate that the biomarker is associated with a positive outcome
                                                 17

following a treatment, whereas absence of the biomarker is associated with a negative or
neutral outcome following a treatment. Because the patient has the biomarker, a health care
professional may stratify the patient into a group that receives the treatment.
[00184]      In some embodiments, a method of detecting the presence or absence of a protein
of interest (e.g., an antibody) in a sample can include obtaining an array disclosed herein and
contacted with a sample suspected of comprising the protein of interest; and determining
whether the protein of interest is present in the sample by detecting the presence or absence
of binding to one or more features of the array. In some embodiments, the protein of interest
can be obtained from a bodily fluid, such as amniotic fluid, aqueous humour, vitreous
humour, bile, blood serum, breast milk, cerebrospinal fluid, cerumen, chyle, endolymph,
perilymph, feces, female ejaculate, gastric acid, gastric juice, lymph, mucus, peritoneal fluid,
pleural fluid, pus, saliva, sebum, semen, sweat, synovial fluid, tears, vaginal secretion, vomit,
or urine.
[00185]      In some embodiments, a method of identifying a vaccine candidate can include
obtaining an array disclosed herein contacted with a sample derived from a subject previously
administered the vaccine candidate, wherein the sample comprises a plurality of antibodies;
and determining the binding specificity of the plurality of antibodies to one or more features
of the array. In some embodiments, the features comprise a plurality of distinct, nested,
overlapping peptide chains comprising subsequences derived from a source protein having a
known sequence.
EXAMPLES
[00186]      Below are examples of specific embodiments for carrying out the present
invention. The examples are offered for illustrative purposes only, and are not intended to
limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Efforts have been made to ensure
accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts, temperatures, etc.), but some
experimental error and deviation should, of course, be allowed for.
[00187]      The practice of the present invention will employ, unless otherwise indicated,
conventional methods of protein chemistry, biochemistry, recombinant DNA techniques and
pharmacology, within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the
literature. See, e.g., T.E. Creighton, Proteins:Structures and MolecularProperties(W.H.
Freeman and Company, 1993); A.L. Lehninger, Biochemistry (Worth Publishers, Inc., current
addition); Sambrook, et al., Molecular Cloning: A LaboratoryManual (2nd Edition, 1989);
Methods In Enzymology (S. Colowick and N. Kaplan eds., Academic Press, Inc.);
Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, 18th Edition (Easton, Pennsylvania: Mack Publishing

Company, 1990); Carey and Sundberg Advanced Organic Chemistry 3 rd Ed. (Plenum Press)
Vols A and B (1992).
   Example 1: 1-(diethylamino-methyl)-4-phenyl-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione
                                                    N
                                                       N
                                             -N
                                        N
[00188]       1-(diethylamino-methyl)-4-phenyl-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione is
commercially available from Sigma Aldrich.
    Example 2: 1-(3-(diethylamino)-propyl)-4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1,4-dihydro-5H
                                        tetrazole-5-thione
                                                                    O-ZZ
                                                    N / N
                                                     N
                                  N                  S
[00189]       1 -(3-(diethylamino)-propyl)-4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5
thione was prepared according to Scheme 1 with a molecular weight of 321.44 and chemical
formula: C 15H23N 5OS.
[00190]       'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3): 7.47-7.38 (m, 2H), 7.01- 6.95 (m, 2H), 4.43 (t, 2H),
3.83 (s, 3H), 2.62-2.54 (m, 6H), 2.14 -2.11 (m, 2H), 1.07-1.04 (t, 6H). MS, m/z, calculated for
C 15H 2 3 N 5OS [MH] 322.44, observed 322.
                            Example 3: Wafer Substrate Preparation
[00191]       Prime Grade 300mm Silicon Wafers, p-type Boron, (1 0 0) Orientation, 1-5
Ohmcm-I and 725 pm thickness were obtained from Process Specialties. The wafers were
deposited with 1000 A thermal oxide by dry oxidation at 10000 Celsius in a furnace under
pure oxygen atmosphere for 2 hours. Commercial photoresist P5107 is spin coated on the
wafers at 2000 rpm for 40 seconds using the Sokudo RF3S Coat/Develop Track (Figure la).

The wafers were exposed with an inverse zero layer mask using the Nikon NSR S205 KrF
Scanner (248 nm wavelength). This is followed by post exposure bake at 1100 Celsius for 90
seconds and then developed using the commercially available developer NMD-3 at 2.38%
(from Tokyo Ohka Kogyo America).
[00192]     Oxide etching was performed by wet oxide etch of the wafers using buffered
hydrofluoric acid which was prepared by mixing 5 parts of 40 weight % of ammonium
fluoride (from Sigma) with 1 part of 49 weight % of hydrofluoric acid (from Sigma) for 1
minute. This is followed by stripping the wafers with Nanostrip (from CyanTek) for 24
hours. Wafers were finally washed with DI Water and sonicated in DI Water for 10 minutes.
This results in the completion of substrate preparation in which the feature area has height of
1 000^ and contains thermal oxide while the non-feature area contains silicon.
[00193]     A DI 5000 AFM system was used to measure the roughness and calculate the
density of the substrate. Figure lb shows the pillars formed after the process described in
Figure la. Figure 1c shows the RMS roughness of the substrate. The density of the substrate
was calculated to be approximately 100-150 pM.
                          Example 4: Wafer Surface Derivatization
[00194]     Wafers were copiously washed with DI Water for 5 minutes and spin coated with
a solution containing 1.25% (v/v) of 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES, from Sigma
Aldrich) in N-methyl-pyrollidone (NMP, from BDH Chemicals) and left at room temperature
for 15 minutes. Curing of the wafers was done at 120'C for 60 minutes under N2 atmosphere.
Wafers were then spin coated with a coupling solution containing 2 weight % of Fmoc-Gly
OH (from Anaspec), 2 weight % of HOBt (from Anaspec) and 2 weight % of N,N'
diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC, from Sigma Aldrich) in NMP and baked at 60'C for 5
minutes. This enables coupling of Fmoc-Glycine to the free amine present in APTES. Wafers
were then rinsed with NMP and then capped with 50% (v/v) of acetic anhydride mixed with
50% of NMP to cap any remaining free amines, which have not been coupled. Wafers were
stripped with acetone (from BDH Chemicals) and isopropyl alcohol (IPA, from BDH
Chemicals). Fmoc protection of Glycine is removed by spin coating the wafer with 5% (v/v)
of piperidine (from Sigma Aldrich) in NMP and baking at 80'C for 300 seconds. The linker
Fmoc-(PEG) 4-COOH (from Anaspec) is then coupled to the wafer surface by spin coating a
coupling solution containing 2 weight % of the linker, 2 weight % of HOBt (from Anaspec)
and 2 weight % of DIC in NMP and baked at 90'C for 120 seconds. Wafers were rinsed with
NMP and then capped with 50% (v/v) of acetic anhydride mixed with 50% of NMP to cap
any remaining free amines. Wafers were stripped with acetone and IPA to complete the
                                               an

surface derivatization process.
                     Example 5: Production of a NH, coated substrate
[00195]      Wafer with an NH2 surface was prepared as follows: 3-aminopropyl-triethoxy
silane (APTES) was obtained from Sigma Aldrich. 100% Ethanol was obtained from VWR
International. The wafers were first washed with ethanol for 5 minutes and then in 1%by
weight APTES/ethanol for 20-30 minutes to grow the silane layer. Then the wafers were
cured in a 1100 Celsius nitrogen bake oven to grow a mono silane layer with a -NH 2 group to
attach a linker molecule.
                        Example 6: Amino Acid Activation Solution
[00196]      One weight % of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA, from Polysciences) is
dissolved in NMP by sonication for 10 minutes. 2 weight % of Fmoc-amino acid (from
Anaspec) is then added to the solution followed by addition of 2 weight % of HOBt (from
Anaspec). The following Fmoc-amino acid can be used in the activation solution: Fmoc
citrulline, Fmoc-Ala-OH, Fmot-Cys(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Asp(Otbu)-OH, Fmoc-Glu(OtBu)-OH,
Fmoc-Phe-OH, Fmoc-Gly-OH, Fmoc-His(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Ile-OH, Fmoc-Lys(Boc)-OH,
Fmoc-Leu-OH, Fmoc-Met-OH, Fmoc-Asn(Trt)-OH, Fmoc-Pro-OH, Fmoc-Gln(Trt)-OH,
Fmoc-Arg(Pbf)-OH, Fmoc-Ser(tbu)-OH, Fmoc-Thr(tbu)-OH, Fmoc-Val-OH, Fmoc
Trp(Boc)-OH, and Fmoc-Try(tbu)-OH. Finally, 1 weight % of tetrazole thione is added to the
cocktail. The amino acid activation solution is then filtered using 0.05pm filtration setup.
                            Example 7: Peptide Array Synthesis
[00197]      A one-step amine side-chain peptide synthesis is illustrated in Figure 2 as follows:
A base resist solution containing 1 weight % of polymer and 3 weight % of piperidine
dissolved in NMP is spin coated onto the wafer at 3000rpm for 30 seconds and soft baked at
65' Celsius for 1 minute in a hot plate. Now the wafer is baked at 80' Celsius for 300
seconds. Fmoc protection is removed in all features leaving the unprotected amine group. The
incoming amino acid activation solution solution is spin coated onto a wafer at 3000 rpm for
30 seconds and soft baked at 65' Celsius for 1 minute in a hot plate. Subsequently, the wafer
is exposed using a reticle, which exposes desired features for which the incoming amino acid
needs to be coupled at an exposure dose of 120 mJ/cm 2 and then hard baked at 850 Celsius
for 90 seconds in a hot plate. Tetrazole thione upon exposure releases a carbodiimide and
selective activation of amino acid is achieved in the exposed features. The incoming Fmoc
amino acid present in the cocktail is activated and coupled to the unprotected amine present
on the wafer in the same step completing the coupling of one layer of amino acid. Each layer
of coupling comprises of reticles for each incoming Fmoc-amino acid to be coupled, which
                                                A1

exposes features independent of the rest of the reticles used for the same layer. After the
completion of all amino acids for a particular layer, the wafer is then spin coated with a
solution of 50 weight % of NMP and 50 weight % of acetic anhydride to cap any remaining
unprotected amine remaining in any part of the wafer which have been not been coupled with
the next amino acid in the layer. Wafer is stripped in acetone and IPA to remove any resist
present on the surface after each step. The whole process is repeated for each individual layer
of amino acid designed to be coupled to complete the synthesis of a peptide.
                          Example 8: Side Chain Protection Removal
[00198]     After the completion of peptide synthesis, the side group protection present for
some amino acids need to be removed to enable biological activity of the peptide. Side chain
protection removal cocktail is prepared by mixing 95 weight % trifluoroacetic acid (TFA)
(from Sigma Aldrich) and 5 weight % DI Water. Wafers are reacted with side chain
protection removal cocktail for 90 mins. This is followed by washing the chips successively
with TFA for 5 mins, IPA for 5 mins, and NMP for 5 mins, neutralized with 5 weight % of
DIEA (from Alfa Aesar) in NMP for 5 mins, and followed by washing the wafer successively
with NMP for 5 mins and IPA for 5 mins.
                         Example 9: Inline OC Thickness Monitorin2
[00199]     During the peptide array synthesis process, inline quality control is performed by
testing the wafer thickness after each coating step. After coating the wafer with amino acid
activation resist, the thickness of the wafer is measured using Prometrix SpectraMap (from
KLA Tencor) and monitored for each step with predetermined specifications for each
individual amino acid activation solution. If the thickness measured does not match with the
specifications, further processing of the wafer is paused and is stripped and recoated.
                           Example 10: Fluorescein Quality Control
[00200]     After the synthesis process is completed, end-of-line fluorescein quality control is
performed. The final amino acid in each peptide sequence was deprotected by base (10%
(v/v) of piperidine in NMP) for 20 mins and was coupled to a solution containing 1 weight %
5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (5(6)-FAM, from Anaspec), 2 weight % of DIC and 2 weight % of
HOBt dissolved in NMP for 30 mins. This was followed by washing steps successively with
NMP for 5mins, ethanol for 5 mins, mixture of 50 weight % EDA (from Sigma Aldrich) and
50 weight % of ethanol for 30 mins, and ethanol for 15 mins and IPA for 5 mins. This
process was used to analyze the individual coupling yield of each amino acid coupled in each
step in addition to the step yield of each peptide sequence coupled. Sample data is shown in
Figures 3a and 3b.
                                                 A 1)

                           Example 11: Biological Quality Control
[00201]     After the synthesis process was completed, end-of-line biological quality control
was performed. Monoclonal antibodies to known peptide sequences were obtained from
Abcam. Each amino acid in the peptide sequence was replaced one at a time to determine the
key amino acid/amino acids needed for the antibody to recognize the sequence. For example,
in the sequence Leu-Lys-Trp-Leu-Asp-Ser-Phe-Thr-Glu-Gln (LKWLDSFTEQ) (SEQ ID
NO: 1), Leu was replaced one at a time by Cit, Ala, Cys, Asp, Glu, Phe, Gly, His, Ile, Lys,
Met, Asn, Pro, Gln, Arg, Ser, Thr, Val, and Tyr, and similarly other amino acids in the
sequence were replaced one at a time. All sequences were designed and grown on the wafer
and all sequences were tested for biological activity using the monoclonal antibody obtained
for the given sequence. For a particular sequence, an amino acid was considered to be a key
amino acid when the biological activity of the sequence is high when amino acid was present
and was low when the key amino acid was replaced by any of the remaining amino acids.
Sample data obtained is shown in Figures 4A-4F. From the heat map shown in Figure 4A, it
was determined that the important amino acids in this sequence are LKWLDSFTEQ (SEQ
ID NO: 1) with the key amino acids underlined and in bold face. If any other amino acids
were used in place of the key amino acid, the sequence did not display any biological activity.
Thus, an amino acid was correlated with a particular sequence, for which it is a key amino
acid. When the amino acid was grown in each layer, the correlated sequence was also grown
in the design to check the coupling yield of the amino acid using the biological performance
characteristic. Similarly, for figures 4B-4F, key amino acids were determined and included in
every layer as part of the Bio quality control test for each layer amino acid. For figures 4B
4F the sequences were DKYYEPHLERA (SEQ ID NO: 2), AATNSSTIAGHK (SEQ ID
NO: 3), AYDPVDYPY (SEQ ID NO: 4), SSOPLPLARENK (SEQ ID NO: 5),
LNLVEELPK (SEQ ID NO: 6), respectively, with the key amino acids underlined and in
bold face.
                    Example 12: Production of a Substrate with Pillars
[00202]     This example describes how to construct a substrate comprising pillars. Silicon
wafers with 2.4 pm thermally grown oxide were obtained from University Wafers. The
surface of the silicon wafer was cleaned with deionized water to remove contaminants from
the wafer surface. The surface of the silicon wafer was primed for chemical adhesion of an
organic compound to the wafer by applying vapors of hexamethyldisilizane (HMDS) onto a
heated wafer substrate using a spray module at 200-220 Celsius for 30-50 seconds. HMDS
was obtained from Sigma Aldrich Inc. HMDS acts as a "bridge" with properties to bind to
                                                III

both the wafer surface and the photoresist. The wafers were spun coat in a photoresist coat
module with a commercially available deep Ultra violet photoresist, P5107 obtained from
Rohm and Haas or AZ DX7260p 700 from AZ Electronic Materials, to obtain a thickness of
6000 A. The wafers were then baked in a hot plate at 1200 Celsius for 60 seconds.
[00203]      Photomasks that have the patterned regions to create the features were used to
image the array on to the substrate surface. The wafers were then exposed in a 248nm deep
ultra violet radiation scanner tool, Nikon S203, with expose energy of 18mJ/cm 2 . The wafers
were then post-exposure baked at 1100 Celsius for 120 seconds in a hot plate and developed
with commercially available NMD-3 developer, obtained from Tokyo Ohka Kogyo Co., Ltd.,
for 60 seconds.
[00204]      After this the oxide was etched by using either a wet etch process or dry plasma
etch process. Standard semiconductor etch techniques were used. Oxide etch depths were
from 1000 Ato 2000 A.
[00205]      After etching, the resist was lifted off with the following process: The wafers were
left in Nanostrip obtained from Cyantek Inc. overnight and then dipped in Piranha solution
for 90 min. Piranha solution is a 50:50 mixture of sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide.
Sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide were obtained from Sigma Aldrich Corp. Plasma ashing
was performed to oxidize the remaining impurities. This process produced a substrate having
pillars of silicon dioxide.
[00206]      Derivatization: The wafers were then surface derivatized using the methods
provided in Examples 4 and 5 to coat the pillar surface with free amine attachment groups
(i.e., NH 2 groups).
                                                  1AA

What is claimed is:
1.       A carboxylic acid activating formulation, comprising: a carboxylic acid activating
compound, a coupling molecule and a solvent.
2.       The formulation of claim 1, wherein said carboxylic acid activating compound is a
carbodiimide precursor.
3.       The formulation of claim 2, wherein said carbodiimide precursor converts to
carbodiimide upon exposure to electromagnetic radiation at a defined wavelength.
4.       The formulation of claim 4, wherein said defined wavelength is 248 nm.
5.       The formulation of claim 3, wherein said carbodiimide precursor is a thione.
6.       The formulation of claim 5, wherein said thione is 1-(3-(diethylamino)-propyl)-4-(2
methoxyphenyl)-1,4-dihydro-5H-tetrazole-5-thione.
7.       A method of attaching a coupling molecule to a substrate, comprising:
         obtaining a substrate comprising a plurality of amine groups for linking to a coupling
   molecule;
         contacting said substrate with the carboxylic acid activating formulation of any of
   claims 1-7;
         selectively exposing said photoactive coupling formulation to light, thereby activating
   a carboxylic group of said coupling molecule at a selectively exposed area;
         coupling the activated carboxylic group of said coupling molecule to at least one of
   said plurality of amine groups at said selectively exposed area; and
         optionally repeating said method to produce a desired polymer at said at least one
   carboxylic acid group.
   8.   The method of claim 7, wherein said coupling step is performed multiple times at
   different selectively exposed areas on said substrate.
   9.   The method of claim 7, wherein said coupling step has a coupling efficiency of at least
   98.5%.
   10. The method of claim 7, wherein said coupling step has a coupling efficiency of at least
   90%, 91%, 92%,     9 3 %, 94%, 9 5 %, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%.
   11. The method of claim 7, wherein said coupling molecule is an amino acid.
   12. The method of claim 11, wherein said amino acid has a protecting group attached to an
   amine group.
                                                 AtS

13. The method of claim 12, wherein said protecting group is Fmoc.
                                          11C,

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                               <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
nm                   VS_S2_Height_140211_005               Region Histogram: Whole
          500                                                                                 IMAGE 3
                                                               3000
 3                                                       pxl   2000
          400
                                                               1000
                                                                  0
 2                                                                    -1   0     1        2    3
          300                                                                        nm
     nm
 1
          200
 0                                                                                                               3/12
          100
-1
          0
           0       100     200         300   400   500
         Histogram                nm
      1000
     pxl/div
                -1    0       1          2     3
                                  nm                           RMS Roughness: 0.35nm
       Statistics
       Region Min(nm) Max(nm) Mid(nm) Mean(nm) Rpv(nm) Rq(nm) Ra(nm) Rz(nm) Rsk Rku
         Whole    -1.254 3.871   1.308   -0.003   5.125 0.344 0.254 4.905 -1.374 10.923
                          Figure 1C: Roughness by AFM and Calculated Substrate Density

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                                           <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                                              Amino Acid Coupling Yield
                        70000
                                                                                                                1-mer
                        60000
                                                                                                                2-mer
                        50000                                                                                   3-mer
                                                                                                                4-mer
                        40000
                                                                                                                5-mer
                        30000
                                                                                                                6-mer         5/12
                        20000                                                                                   7-mer
                                                                                                                8-mer
Fluorescein Intensity
                        10000
                                                                                                                9-mer
                            0                                                                                   10-mer
                                Amino Acids (CIT, A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T, V, W, Y)
                                                                   Figure 3A

                                                              6/12
<removed-date>
                                                           AMINO ACID LAYER
                                      1MER 2MER 3MER 4MER 5MER 6MER 7MER 8MER 9MER 10MER 11MER 12MER
                                CIT
                                ALA
                                CYS
<removed-apn>
                                ASP
                                GLU
                                PHE
                                GLY
                                HIS
                                ILE
              AMINO ACID NAME
                                LYS
                                LEU
                                MET
                                ASN
                                PRO
                                GLN
                                ARG
                                SER
                                THR
                                VAL
                                TRP
                                TYR
                                                           Figure 3B

                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      ORIGINAL AMINO ACID SEQUENCE
                                            GLN GLU THR PHE SER ASP LEU TRP LYS LEU
                                      ALA
                                                                                          Q   E     T    F    S   D   L   W    K    L
                                      CYS
                                                                                      A
                                      ASP                                             C
                                      GLU                                             D
                                      PHE                                             E
                                      GLY                                             F
                                      HIS                                             G
                                                                                      H
                                      ILE                                             I
                                      LYS                                             K
                                      LEU                                             L                                                      7/12
                                      MET                                             M
                                      ASN                                             N
                                      PRO                                             P
                                      GLN
                                                                                      Q
                                                                                      R
                                      ARG
                                                                                      S
                                      SER                                             T
                                      THR                                             V
REPLACED AMINO ACID IN THE SEQUENCE
                                      VAL                                             W
                                      TRP                                             Y
                                      TYR
                                                                                                  Figure 4A

                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       ORIGINAL AMINO ACID SEQUENCE
                                            ALA ARG GLU LEU HIS PRO GLU TYR TYR LYS ASP
                                      ALA                                                     A   R    E      L   H    P   E   Y   Y   K   D
                                      CYS                                                 A
                                      ASP
                                                                                          C
                                                                                          D
                                      GLU
                                                                                          E
                                      PHE
                                                                                          F
                                      GLY
                                                                                          G
                                      HIS                                                 H
                                      ILE                                                 I
                                      LYS                                                 K
                                      LEU                                                 L
                                                                                                                                                 8/12
                                      MET                                                 M
                                      ASN                                                 N
                                      PRO                                                 P
                                      GLN                                                 Q
                                      ARG
                                                                                          R
                                                                                          S
                                      SER
                                                                                          T
                                      THR
REPLACED AMINO ACID IN THE SEQUENCE
                                                                                          V
                                      VAL                                                 W
                                      TRP                                                 Y
                                      TYR
                                                                                                  Figure 4B

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701>   <U+2702>

                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                       ORIGINAL AMINO ACID SEQUENCE
                                        LYS ASN GLU ARG ALA LEU PRO LEU PRO GLN SER SER
                                      ALA                                                     K   N   E      R   A    L   P   L   P    Q     S   S
                                      CYS
                                                                                          A
                                                                                          C
                                      ASP
                                                                                          D
                                      GLU                                                 E
                                      PHE                                                 F
                                      GLY                                                 G
                                                                                          H
                                      HIS
                                                                                          I
                                      ILE
                                                                                          K
                                      LYS                                                 L
                                                                                                                                                         11/12
                                      LEU                                                 M
                                      MET                                                 N
                                      ASN                                                 P
                                                                                          Q
                                      PRO
                                                                                          R
                                      GLN                                                 S
                                      ARG                                                 T
                                      SER                                                 V
                                      THR                                                 W
REPLACED AMINO ACID IN THE SEQUENCE
                                                                                          Y
                                      VAL
                                      TRP
                                      TYR
                                                                                                          Figure 4E

                                                                                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       ORIGINAL AMINO ACID SEQUENCE
                                            LYS PRO LEU GLU GLU VAL LEU ASN LEU
                                      ALA
                                                                                      K   P   L       E   E      V    L    N    L
                                      CYS                                         A
                                      ASP                                         C
                                      GLU                                         D
                                                                                  E
                                      PHE
                                                                                  F
                                      GLY                                         G
                                      HIS                                         H
                                                                                  I
                                      ILE
                                                                                  K
                                      LYS                                         L                                                      12/12
                                      LEU                                         M
                                      MET                                         N
                                      ASN                                         P
                                                                                  Q
                                      PRO                                         R
                                      GLN                                         S
                                                                                  T
                                      ARG
                                                                                  V
                                      SER                                         W
REPLACED AMINO ACID IN THE SEQUENCE
                                      THR                                         Y
                                      VAL
                                      TRP
                                      TYR
                                                                                          Figure 4F

<removed-date>
                                             SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110> VIBRANT HOLDINGS, LLC
              <120> SELECTIVE PHOTOACTIVATION OF AMINO ACIDS FOR SINGLE STEP PEPTIDE
                    COUPLING
              <130> 180868
              <140> Serial number not yet known
              <141> 2017-11-28
<removed-apn>
              <150> AU 2015218635
              <151> 2015-02-23
              <150> PCT/US2015/017173
              <151> 2015-02-23
              <150> 62/048,689
              <151> 2014-09-10
              <150> 61/942,903
              <151> 2014-02-21
              <160> 12
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 1
              Leu Lys Trp Leu Asp Ser Phe Thr Glu Gln
              1               5                   10
              <210>   2
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 2
              Asp Lys Tyr Tyr Glu Pro His Leu Glu Arg Ala
              1               5                   10
              <210> 3
              <211> 12
                                                   1

<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 3
              Ala Ala Thr Asn Ser Ser Thr Ile Ala Gly His Lys
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   4
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 4
              Ala Tyr Asp Pro Val Asp Tyr Pro Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   5
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 5
              Ser Ser Gln Pro Leu Pro Leu Ala Arg Glu Asn Lys
              1               5                   10
              <210>   6
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 6
              Leu Asn Leu Val Glu Glu Leu Pro Lys
              1               5
              <210>   7
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    2

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 7
              Gln Glu Thr Phe Ser Asp Leu Trp Lys Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   8
<removed-apn>
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 8
              Ala Arg Glu Leu His Pro Glu Tyr Tyr Lys Asp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   9
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 9
              Lys His Gly Ala Ile Thr Ser Ser Asn Thr Ala Ala
              1               5                   10
              <210>   10
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 10
              Tyr Pro Tyr Asp Val Pro Asp Tyr Ala
              1               5
              <210>   11
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                    3

<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 11
              Lys Asn Glu Arg Ala Leu Pro Leu Pro Gln Ser Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   12
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 12
              Lys Pro Leu Glu Glu Val Leu Asn Leu
              1               5
                                                    4

