                                           59
                                        Abstract
A system and method for reducing load across a portion of a power grid. The system (400)
includes an access manager device (200) that forms part of a local power management
network (600) and is configured for communication with a smartphone (10) and a
smartmeter (300).

                                                      3/7
                                                                            400
                              502
                                                                                                   Market Operator
                                                    500
                                                                     412
                                    Service--       --       -     --     -     --
                          V        Platform                                   -g                              f
22,                  --
                    420
      0                                                                       418                   416
 (smartphone)
                                               414
                                                                                          %A             +
                 41
                 \\               ......    '..
                                        ---..      16                                    20
                                                                                   ---......
             410                       14                                                20
                                                    Wi-Fi Network
                                                    Access Point                                    Generation
                     406                                                                           Transmission
      10                                        -- 404                                                 Retail
                                      200                     300                                    Metering
                                      200
                        402                          408
        (smartphone)
                                        422   +     424          '    Electricity
                                                                     Management           426
                                                 VA'                     Unit
                                     700
                                     Power Control Unit
                                .......................................................
                          600
                                                                                            Fig. 4

                                                   1
                        WIRELESS POWER CONTROL AND METRICS
                                        Field of the Invention
[0001]       The present invention relates to the analysis of power metrics and control of
mains power in domestic and commercial applications using standard smartphones,
tablets, notebooks, laptops, netbooks, ultrabook computers and similar items to act as a
communication interface for dynamic power management notifications, messaging and
data analysis as well as a human interface for an electricity management unit through an
adaptable wireless communications link.
                                     Background of Invention
[0002]       Power meters are a common part of domestic and commercial buildings. In
recent years, there has been significant growth in technology used to measure and control
mains power through the implementation of devices known as smartmeters. Smartmeters
typically incorporate real-time or near real-time sensors that record the consumption
of electricity and transfer this data remotely for monitoring and billing purposes. Smart
metering is able to provide detailed metrics over time, allowing utilities to charge tiered
tariffs linked to instantaneous demand and associated generation costs. Due to more
granular measurement capabilities, utilities are moving to augment smartmeters with
control features that can shed load during peak periods in order to limit peak demand and
consequently lower plant and capital costs. Any mechanism used to reduce demand during
peak periods is typically referred to as demand response, that definition being adopted
herein.
[0003]       In recent years, the proliferation of smartphones has placed powerful computing
devices in the hands of the public. While these devices can generate and transmit wireless
commands, their generic wireless systems are not compatible with the standards currently
used in domestic or commercial smartmeters, so they cannot natively communicate with
such devices in order to exchange information or commands.

                                               2
                                          Summary
[0004]     In one preferred embodiment, the present invention includes three parts: an
access administrator with a wireless communications module operable for wireless
communication with a personal controller, a local network communications module
operable for communication with an electricity management unit, and an interface
connection adapted to receive power from an electricity management unit; a battery
powered personal controller able to communicate with an access administrator via a
wireless communications link; and a service platform capable of exchanging data with a
personal controller.
[0005]     The access administrator is preferably configured to wirelessly operate: as an
adaptable Wi-Fi Direct and network Wi-Fi device, either individually or concurrently, using
Wi-Fi-Direct and/or network Wi-Fi technologies; and optionally as a Bluetooth device using
Bluetooth SIG class 2.1 +EDR or later technologies including Bluetooth Low Energy. As
used herein, "network Wi-Fi" refers to the Wi-Fi Alliance definition as any "wireless local
area network (WLAN) products that are based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 standards" including any amendments, extensions or proprietary
implementations. As used herein, the term "Wi-Fi Direct" refers to a device configured to
support the Wi-Fi Alliance Wi-Fi Direct specification and amendments, extensions or any
proprietary implementations of Wi-Fi peer-to-peer technology.
[0006]     Wi-Fi Direct and Bluetooth are peer-to-peer capable communication
technologies. Peer-to-peer communication methods and control aspects that may be
incorporated into the access administrator are described in more detail in PCT Application
No. PCT/AU2011/001666, filed December 29, 2011, titled "Wireless Power, Light and
Automation Control," the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Network Wi-Fi is a communication technology that allows devices to communicate through
a WLAN. Adaptable network, peer-to-peer communication methods and system attributes
that may be incorporated into the access administrator are described in more detail in PCT
Application No. PCT/AU2012/000959, filed August 15, 2012, titled "Adaptable Wireless
Power, Light and Automation System" the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
by reference.

                                                3
[0007]       The access administrator preferably includes a physical interface designed to
accept mains level power from, and exchange data with, an electricity management unit.
The access administrator and electricity management unit preferably communicate by way
of power line communications and include the necessary capabilities for impressing a
modulated carrier signal onto mains power wiring. The supported power line
communications may be by way of any protocol that facilitates communication between an
access administrator and electricity management unit using mains power wiring. In one
preferred embodiment, power line communications may incorporate: the HomePlug
Powerline Appliance Homeplug standards and/or specifications; IEEE 1901, 1901.1 and/or
1901.2 standards and/or specifications; and/or ITU-T's G.hn standards and/or
specifications; including any amendments, extensions, revisions or proprietary
implementations. Other suitable standards and/or specifications may include, but are not
limited to, those from the Universal Powerline Association, SiConnect, the HD-PLC
Alliance, Xsilon and Powerline Intelligent Metering Evolution Alliance.
[0008]       In one preferred embodiment, in addition to, or instead of, power line
communications, the access administrator may preferably include the necessary hardware
to support wireless communication with an electricity management unit via any suitable
personal area network (PAN) or home area network (HAN) wireless technologies, protocols
and/or standards configurable for use in the utility industry including any Zigbee protocol or
standard published by the Zigbee Alliance; any protocol or standard published by the WI
SUN Alliance; and/or any protocol or standard based on IEEE 802.15 including, but not
limited to, IEEE 802.15.4. Unless otherwise noted, the wireless local network
communications capabilities will be described in terms of Zigbee, though the invention is
not so limited.
[0009]       The personal controller is preferably a commercially available cellular or mobile
phone commonly known as a smartphone that supports at least network Wi-Fi and may
also support Wi-Fi Direct and/or Bluetooth and/or Near Field Communications (NFC).
Unless otherwise noted, the personal controller will be described in terms of a smartphone,
though the invention is not so limited. For example only, the personal controller may be
any computing device which can download or install by other means an Applications
Program (App), have a suitable interface the user can interact with to control the App in

                                               4
order to execute required functions, have the wireless communications capability to
establish a communications link with an access administrator, and have the
communications capability to exchange data with a service platform. Examples of personal
controllers include smartphones, tablets, laptops, ultrabooks and notebook personal
computers.
[0010]      The access administrator can preferably form a communications link with a
smartphone using Wi-Fi Direct and/or network Wi-Fi. It can be appreciated that when the
access administrator is connected to a WLAN, a smartphone with Wi-Fi capability also
connected to the same WLAN can use an appropriate App to communicate with the access
administrator. That is, a user can enter a command into their smartphone and send it to the
access administrator via the WLAN. In this case the smartphone could be in the vicinity of
the WLAN access point, or the smartphone could be at a remote location and communicate
with the WLAN access point via the Internet if so configured.
[0011]      It can be appreciated that an access administrator operating in a Wi-Fi Direct
mode can communicate peer-to-peer with a smartphone without the requirement of a
WLAN. In this case, the access administrator preferably simulates a Wi-Fi access point or
operates as a software access point (softAP) if the smartphone is not using Wi-Fi Direct to
communicate; or if the smartphone is using Wi-Fi Direct to communicate, the access
administrator and smartphone can preferably negotiate which device assumes the Wi-Fi
Direct group owner role and establish a peer-to-peer connection. Once a peer-to-peer
connection has been established, the user is able to send commands directly from a
smartphone to the selected access administrator without the need for any other
intermediary or network.
[0012]      The present invention in one preferred embodiment provides an access
administrator with wireless communication capabilities derived from any number of radios,
transceivers and controllers that provide both a network Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi Direct connection
individually or concurrently. In some preferred embodiments, the access administrator may
also include the necessary radios, transceivers or components to support a wireless
Bluetooth connection. In some preferred embodiments, the access administrator may also
include the necessary radios, transceivers or components to support a wireless Zigbee
connection.

                                                   5
[0013]       Depending on cost and desired outcome, the wireless communication
capabilities of the access administrator may be achieved by using: any number of discrete
radios, aerials, transceivers, microprocessors and controllers either individually,
collectively, or as a system in a package (SiP) or as a system on a chip (SoC); a
combination or "combo" chip that aggregates the functionality of a number of discrete
transceivers and controllers of different standards as a SiP or SoC; or using any
combination of combo chip(s), SiP(s), SoC(s) and/or discrete radios, aerials, transceivers
and controllers. The access administrator may utilize single or multiple wireless bands,
physical channels, virtual channels, modes or other coexistence technologies and
algorithms, the methods of which are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art and for
simplicity are not described herein. Depending on the chosen hardware components, the
access administrator may also include shared antenna support and shared signal receiving
paths to eliminate the need for an external splitter or reduce the number of aerials required.
[0014]       The present invention in one preferred embodiment provides an access
administrator with adaptable wireless communications that in a first mode provides a Wi-Fi
Direct peer-to-peer connection and in a second mode can be configured by the user to
operate as a network Wi-Fi device and connect to a WLAN as a client.
[0015]       The access administrator preferably has its wireless communications set to
initially function in Wi-Fi Direct mode irrespective of its final configuration. Because the Wi
Fi Direct mode is a peer-to-peer connection, as soon as power is applied to the access
administrator, it can be recognised by a smartphone running at least network Wi-Fi and a
wireless communications link can be established. Once the link is established, the user is
able to activate a smartphone App which preferably uses the data path between the
smartphone and access administrator. Using a smartphone App, the user can choose if the
access administrator is to continue running in Wi-Fi Direct mode, swap to network Wi-Fi
mode, or run both modes concurrently where supported, and set the access administrator
with any operational parameters required for a network Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi Direct device, name
the device, set an encryption key, enter a password and any other requirements. When this
procedure has been completed, the user can command the access administrator to
"restart", at which time it will configure itself according to the parameters which have been
specified during the setup process.

                                                 6
[0016]      If the user has chosen the access administrator to operate in Wi-Fi Direct mode,
it would continue to do so after the restart. The access administrator would only connect to
smartphones that can fully comply with its connection requirements before establishing a
communications link. This may include security measures in addition to any native security
measures of Wi-Fi Direct such as Wi-Fi Protected Access or Wi-Fi Protected Access 2.
[0017]      If the user has chosen the access administrator to operate in a network Wi-Fi
mode, the smartphone App would configure the necessary parameters for the access
administrator to connect to a WLAN. When the access administrator restarts, it would
connect as a client device on the WLAN. It would then preferably be accessible to devices
which are also connected to the same WLAN. A peer-to-peer wireless mode of the access
administrator is preferably used to configure the necessary parameters for the access
administrator to connect to a WLAN as a client.
[0018]      In either mode, a smartphone App is preferably used to control the functional
capabilities of the access administrator. In network Wi-Fi mode, the smartphone App
communicates with the selected access administrator via a WLAN access point. In Wi-Fi
Direct mode, the smartphone App communicates directly with the selected access
administrator peer-to-peer.
[0019]      If the user has chosen the access administrator to operate in both Wi-Fi Direct
mode and network Wi-Fi mode concurrently, when the access administrator restarts it
would appear as a client device on the WLAN and as a Wi-Fi Direct access point/group
participant with the functionality of each mode being available. In that way, and as an
example only, an access administrator could allow third party access via a Wi-Fi Direct
connection without allowing access to the concurrent WLAN connection, thus preventing
access to other WLAN devices.
[0020]      In one preferred embodiment, a Bluetooth peer-to-peer connection between a
smartphone and access administrator may be used to enter information for configuration of
the access administrator as a network Wi-Fi device and/or Wi-Fi Direct access point/group
participant, or to facilitate the establishment of a network Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi Direct connection.
In another preferred embodiment, a Bluetooth connection with a smartphone may be used
as a peer-to-peer communication channel to exchange data with the access administrator.

                                                  7
[0021]      The service platform is preferably an applications service platform or software as
a service platform that utilizes a computer(s), computing device(s) or server(s) capable of
processing data and/or analyzing data and/or compiling data and/or exchanging data
and/or transferring data and/or receiving data and/or storing data and/or manipulating data
in any necessary way and can communicate with at least a personal controller and
preferably the App used to control the functional capabilities of an access administrator
and/or an electricity management unit.
[0022]       In a first preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a device for linking
a personal controller to an electricity management unit, the personal controller having a
processor, a user interface, and a wireless communications transceiver, the electricity
management unit being configured to at least measure power flow. The device comprises a
wireless communications module operable for wireless communication with the personal
controller, the wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio transceiver,
the wireless communications module being configured to communicate with the personal
controller selectively using a non-peer-to-peer communication link and at least one of two
different peer-to-peer communications links. The device further comprises a local network
communications module operable for communication with the electricity management unit,
the local network communications module being configured to communicate with the
electricity management unit selectively using a wired communications mode and a wireless
communications mode. The device further comprises a microcontroller configured to
access, through the local network communications module, the electricity management unit
based at least in part on instructions communicated from the personal controller through
the wireless communications module, the microcontroller being configured to operate the
wireless communications module in more than one mode, the microcontroller being
configured to operate the wireless communications module in a first mode using one of the
peer-to-peer communications links, the microcontroller being configured to operate the
wireless control module in a second mode using the non-peer-to-peer communications link.
[0023]       In another preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a system for
dynamically reducing load across a power grid. The system comprises a service platform
including a processor and data storage means. The system further comprises a plurality of
local power management networks, each local power management network including an

                                                8
access administrator device and at least one power control unit, the access administrator
device having a wireless communications module configured to communicate with a
personal controller selectively using at least one peer-to-peer communications standard
and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local network communications
module configured to communicate with a smartmeter and at least one of the power control
units, the at least one power control unit having a communications control module
configured to receive communications from the access administrator device to vary power
from a mains power channel to an electrical device or system, the wireless
communications module being configure to communicate with the service platform through
a communications network.
[0024]      In a further preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a device for
linking a personal controller to a smartmeter, the personal controller having a processor, a
user interface, and a wireless communications transceiver, the smartmeter being
configured to at least measure power flow. The device comprises a wireless
communications module operable for wireless communication with the personal controller,
the wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio transceiver, the
wireless communications module being configured to communicate with the personal
controller selectively using at least one peer-to-peer communications standard and a non
peer-to-peer communication standard. The device further comprises a local network
communications module operable for communication with the smartmeter, the local
network communications module being configured to communicate with the smartmeter
selectively using a wired communications link and a wireless communications link. The
device further comprises a microcontroller configured to access, through the local network
communications module, the smartmeter based at least in part on instructions
communicated from the personal controller through the wireless communications module.
[0025]      In an additional preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a method
for accessing, with a personal controller, an electricity management unit to at least
measure power flow. The method comprises receiving, at an access administrator device
at or near an electricity management unit, a command from the personal controller to
access the electricity management unit, the command being received by the access
administrator device using a first communications standard; sending a command, with the

                                                 9
access administrator device, to the electricity management unit to provide power
measurement data to the access administrator device, the command being sent by the
access administrator device using a second communications standard different from the
first communications standard; and relaying, with the access administrator device, the
requested data from the electricity management unit to the personal controller.
[0026]       In an additional preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a local
power management network for dynamically reducing a portion of a load across a power
grid. The network comprises at least one power control unit. The network further comprises
an access administrator device, the access administrator device having a wireless
communications module, the wireless communications module being configured to
communicate with a smartphone selectively using at least one peer-to-peer
communications standard and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local
network communications module configured to communicate with a smartmeter and at
least one of the power control units, the at least one power control unit having a
communications module configured to receive communications from the access
administrator device to vary power from a mains power channel to an electrical device or
system based at least in part on commands communicated over a local communications
network.
[0027]       In a further preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a local power
management network for dynamically reducing a portion of a load across a power grid. The
network comprises a smartmeter having a processor configured to individually vary power
to at least two different circuits. The device further comprises an access administrator
device having a wireless communications module configured to communicate with a
smartphone selectively using at least one peer-to-peer communications standard and a
non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local network communications module
configured to communicate with the smartmeter, the smartmeter having a communications
module configured to receive communications from the access administrator device to vary
power from a mains power channel to a circuit identified by the access administrator device
for which power is to be varied.
[0028]       In another preferred aspect, the present invention is directed to a system for
selectively reducing load across a power grid. The system comprises a service platform

                                                  10
including a processor and data storage means. The system further comprises a plurality of
local power management networks, each local power management network including an
access administrator device and a smartmeter, the access administrator device having a
wireless communications module configured to communicate with a personal controller
selectively using at least one peer-to-peer communications standard and a non-peer-to
peer communication standard, and a local network communications module configured to
communicate with the smartmeter, the smartmeter having a communications module
configured to receive communications from the access administrator device and provide
the access administrator with an energy measurement metric as measured by the
smartmeter, the processor of the service platform being configured to receive data
regarding a tariff change or energy strain on a portion of a power grid associated with at
least one of the local power management networks, the processor of the service platform
being configured to issue an alert over a communications network to a personal controller
associated with an access administrator of one of the local power management networks
affected by the tariff change or energy strain on the power grid.
[0029]      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia or in any other country.
                                  Brief Description of the Drawings
[0030]      Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a smartphone for use with a preferred
embodiment of the present invention.
[0031]      Fig. 2 is a block diagram of the functional elements of an access administrator in
accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0032]      Fig. 3 is a system pictorial representation of the smartphone of Fig. 1 and its
interaction with the access administrator of Fig. 2 and an electricity management unit.
[0033]      Fig. 4 is a pictorial representation of the communication pathways between the
smartphone of Fig. 1, the access administrator of Fig. 2, an electricity management unit
and a service platform.

                                                  11
[0034]       Fig. 4A is a pictorial representation of a local power management network in
accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0035]       Fig. 4B is a pictorial representation of a local power management network in
accordance with a further preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0036]       Fig. 4C is a pictorial representation of a local power management network in
accordance with an additional preferred embodiment of the present invention.
[0037]       Fig. 5 is a block diagram of the functional elements of an access administrator in
accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention.
                               Detailed Description of the Drawings
[0038]       Alternative embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary
skill in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed
herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only,
with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the claims which follow. It
will be understood that the term "comprising" is intended to have a broad, open meaning
and not limited to a particular embodiment.
[0039]       Referring to Figs. 1 to 3, system 100 preferably includes an applications
program, hereby termed a "Product App," a personal controller 10, an access administrator
200, and an electricity management unit 300. It will be understood that the Product App is
always used in combination with one or more processors, and where it is hosted,
configures what might otherwise be a general purpose processor into a special purpose
processor according to the functions and parameters of the Product App. Preferably, the
Product App is downloaded to smartphone 10 and operates as a human interface for the
control, configuration, programming and/or interrogation of access administrator 200 and
electricity management unit 300 as well as a means for processing and exchanging data
with access administrator 200, electricity management unit 300 and/or a service platform
500 (Fig. 4). System 100 preferably utilises combined wireless communications and power
line communications in order to facilitate the exchange of data and commands. The
communications between access administrator 200 and smartphone 10 preferably utilises
a network WLAN, a wireless peer-to-peer connection, or both concurrently. The

                                               12
communications between access administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300
preferably uses power line communications through a power line communications protocol
or wirelessly using Zigbee. Access administrator 200 preferably draws its operational
power from the same mains power lines used to exchange data with electricity
management unit 300. The interaction of the Product App, smartphone 10, access
administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 will be described in further detail
below.
[0040]      By way of example, where access administrator 200 operates a network WLAN
and peer-to-peer connection concurrently, access administrator 200 may allow third parties
to control or access functions via the peer-to-peer connection without allowing access to
the concurrent WLAN connection, thus preventing access to other WLAN devices.
Alternately, access administrator 200 may allow remote monitoring of the system or data
exchange via the network WLAN connection while limiting actual control of the system to
the peer-to-peer connection.
[0041]      Fig. 1 is a perspective representation of a smartphone 10 which uses a wireless
link to communicate with an access administrator, described in further detail below.
Smartphone 10 is preferably a commercially available, conventional smartphone. Some of
the basic functions the smartphone preferably includes are: a touch sensitive graphical
screen interface 12; a compatible radio transceiver; and the ability to run the Product App,
specific to the individual smartphone operating system. In the examples that follow, specific
coding for the Product App has been omitted for simplicity as a person of ordinary skill in
the art would be able to understand and reproduce the functionality of the described
embodiments without the need for discussion on particular coding.
[0042]      Smartphone 10 is preferably configured to operate across a range of wireless
communications technologies, including the technology to communicate via at least
network Wi-Fi. Smartphone 10 may include additional capability for Wi-Fi Direct and/or
Bluetooth and/or NFC. While preferred embodiments of the present invention use a
smartphone as its controller, and specifically a smartphone incorporating at least network
Wi-Fi, other wireless communications methods and systems could be used depending on
the specific requirements of the application of the invention.

                                               13
[0043]       Referring now to Fig. 2, an access administrator 200 is shown in accordance
with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Access administrator 200 has
wireless communications module 202, perpetual clock calendar 204, local network
communications module 206, system microcontroller 208 with embedded memory, an
aerial 210, system power supply 212, power line coupler 214 and power line connection
216. Where local network communications module 206 includes support for wireless
communications, it may preferably include dedicated aerial 21 0a. In some preferred
embodiments, it may be preferable for system microcontroller 208 to support external
memory in addition to, or instead of, embedded memory. In some preferred embodiments,
it may be preferable for system microcontroller 208 and communications module 206 to be
fully integrated.
[0044]       Perpetual clock calendar 204 preferably includes a power backup by the way of
a battery or supercapacitor enabling real time to be accurately maintained in instances
where power is lost. Inclusion of a perpetual clock calendar 204 allows system
microcontroller to automatically generate commands, perform a function, or exchange data
based on schedules. In some preferred embodiments, perpetual clock calendar 204 may
be omitted where access administrator 200 does not perform any time or date dependant
operations or receives clock data from an external source via power line or wireless
communications. In some preferred embodiments, perpetual clock calendar 204 may be
integrated into system microcontroller 208.
[0045]       Power line connection 216 is the physical interface for connecting access
administrator 200 to the mains power wiring in a building. In one preferred embodiment,
power line connection 216 is preferably configured for compatibility with the NEMA 5-15
North American mains power standard allowing access administrator 200 to plug directly
into a mains power general purpose outlet. In one preferred embodiment, access
administrator 200 may take the physical form of a fully self-contained plug in pack or "wall
wart". In another preferred embodiment, access administrator 200 may have a flying lead.
It will be appreciated that access administrator may be configured according to the plug
and socket, and current and voltage requirements of various countries without departing
from the scope of the present invention. In another preferred embodiment, power line

                                                14
connection 216 may preferably incorporate a terminal block configured for wiring directly
into the mains power of a building or structure.
[0046]      The commands and responses between system microcontroller 208 and
smartphone 10 are communicated through a radio frequency wireless link supported by
wireless communications 202 and aerial 210. Wireless communications 202 preferably
includes any number of radios, transceivers, controllers and aerials that provide a network
Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi Direct connection individually or concurrently with the ability to optionally
support Bluetooth. Examples of wireless communications are described in PCT Application
No. PCT/AU2012/000959, filed August 15, 2012. Depending on cost and the desired
operational functions, wireless communications 202 may include a Wi-Fi radio, a
combination of Wi-Fi radios, or a combination of Wi-Fi Radio(s), wireless radio(s) and a
Bluetooth radio. The wireless communication capabilities may be achieved by using: any
number of discrete radios, aerials, transceivers and controllers either individually,
collectively or as a SiP or SoC; a combination or "combo" chip that aggregates the
functionality of a number of discrete transceivers and controllers of different standards as a
SiP or SoC; or using a combination of combo chip(s), SiP(s), SoC(s) and/or discrete radios,
aerials, transceivers and controllers. Wireless communications may utilize single or
multiple wireless bands, physical channels, virtual channels, modes or other coexistence
technologies and algorithms, the methods of which are already known to those skilled in
the art and are not described herein. Depending on the chosen hardware components,
wireless communications 202 may also include shared antenna support and shared signal
receiving paths to eliminate the need for an external splitter or additional aerials. In a
preferred embodiment, wireless communications 202 may be configured to support Zigbee.
If desired, an additional aerial or aerials may be added where shared antenna support is
not feasible.
[0047]      When wireless communications 202 operates using a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi
standard, preferably Wi-Fi Direct, it can communicate with devices that support network
Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi Direct on a peer-to-peer basis without the need for any intermediary
hardware. Wireless communications 202 is preferably configured to operate according to
the Wi-Fi Direct specification as both a Wi-Fi Direct group participant and Wi-Fi Direct
access point or SoftAP, allowing access administrator 200 to appear to devices

                                               15
communicating with network Wi-Fi as a Wi-Fi access point. Through a SoftAP, wireless
communications 202 is able to establish a peer-to-peer communications link with a network
Wi-Fi device even though the network Wi-Fi device many not support Wi-Fi Direct. In this
instance, a device using network Wi-Fi to communicate will receive a device discovery
message from an access administrator 200 as if from a Wi-Fi access point and be able to
establish a peer-to-peer communications link with the access administrator as though it
were connecting to a Wi-Fi access point. The procedure of establishing a communications
link between a Wi-Fi Direct device and network Wi-Fi devices are defined in the Wi-Fi
Alliance specifications and would be understood by practitioners skilled in communications
systems protocols.
[0048]      Wi-Fi Direct has a number of advantages which simplify communications
between an access administrator and a smartphone. Significant advantages include
mobility and portability, where a smartphone and access administrator only need to be
within radio range of each other to establish a wireless communications link. Wi-Fi Direct
offers secure communications using Wi-Fi Protected Access protocols and encryption for
transported messages, ensuring the system remains secure to qualified devices. Most
importantly, Wi-Fi Direct allows a smartphone with only network Wi-Fi to engage in peer-to
peer data exchange with an access administrator even though the smartphone network Wi
Fi was never intended to support on-demand, peer-to-peer communications.
[0049]      As smartphones continue to evolve, new models are starting to include Wi-Fi
Direct support in addition to network Wi-Fi. In one preferred embodiment of the present
invention, where an access administrator 200 and smartphone 10 exchange a Wi-Fi Direct
intent as part of the discovery process, smartphone 10 and access administrator 200 will
negotiate which device will assume the role of group owner in accordance with the Wi-Fi
Alliance Wi-Fi Direct specification, and a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi Direct communication link will
be established. The Wi-Fi Direct specification outlines a process of negotiation between
Wi-Fi Direct devices to determine which will assume the role of group owner. Access
administrator 200 in one preferred embodiment may preferably be configured at the highest
priority to negotiate a Wi-Fi Direct connection as group owner. By operating as group
owner, access administrator 200 can maintain a number of simultaneous peer-to-peer
connections in what is commonly referred to as a hub and spoke arrangement.

                                               16
[0050]     System microcontroller 208 preferably incorporates a firmware program which
defines the operation and functions of access administrator 200 and assumes responsibility
for running program code and system elements, including specifying the operation of
wireless communications 202, maintaining and interrogating perpetual clock calendar 204,
and management of local network communications module 206. System microcontroller
208 preferably includes a non-volatile memory to store any program and configuration
data. In some preferred embodiments, perpetual clock calendar 204 may be an embedded
function of system microcontroller 208. In some preferred embodiments, non-volatile
memory may be external to system microcontroller 208. In some preferred embodiments,
more than one microcontroller may be used.
[0051]     When access administrator 200 is manufactured, system microcontroller 208
preferably holds the firmware to operate access administrator 200 as a network Wi-Fi
device and Wi-Fi Direct access point/group participant. When power is applied to access
administrator 200 for the first time, system microcontroller 208 preferably starts access
administrator 200 in Wi-Fi Direct mode and begins transmitting discovery messages that
can be detected by a smartphone within wireless range.
[0052]      It can be appreciated that an access administrator operating as a Wi-Fi Direct
access point/group participant can communicate directly with a smartphone without
needing a Wi-Fi WLAN. Access administrator 200 preferably appears as a Wi-Fi access
point if smartphone 10 is not using Wi-Fi Direct to communicate; or negotiates with
smartphone 10 as to which device will assume a Wi-Fi Direct group owner role if
smartphone 10 is using Wi-Fi Direct to communicate. The user is then able to establish a
peer-to-peer communications link and send commands directly to the selected access
administrator without the need for any other device.
[0053]      In one preferred embodiment, access administrator 200 in a peer-to-peer mode
may be configured to preferably simulate a Wi-Fi access point or operate as a SoftAP
without support for Wi-Fi Direct. In that case, a smartphone would preferably establish a
peer-to-peer communications link with an access administrator as if connecting to a Wi-Fi
access point, but could not negotiate with an access administrator a Wi-Fi Direct
connection even if smartphone 10 supports Wi-Fi Direct.

                                              17
[0054]      A preferred method for configuring and controlling access administrator 200 is
through a related Product App. Installation instructions for the Product App are preferably
included with the access administrator. The Product App preferably adopts the same
centralized app store installation methods commonly utilised by conventional smartphone
platforms.
[0055]      The Product App may communicate with any mix of wireless elements and radio
technologies to seamlessly provide the best communications link with an access
administrator. The Product App preferably controls smartphone 10 wireless
communications in order to initiate, search and establish a wireless communications link
with an access administrator. The Product App may preferably display preconfigured and
new access administrators via graphical elements on smartphone touch screen 12.
[0056]      When the Product App starts, it will preferably scan for access administrators
and identify any new access administrator that needs to be initially configured. At this point
the Product App preferably allows the user to establish a peer-to-peer connection with a
new access administrator. The Product App preferably allows the user to determine if an
access administrator is: to remain a Wi-Fi Direct access point/group participant only;
connect to a WLAN as a client and become a network Wi-Fi device; or, where supported by
access administrator wireless communications 202, operate concurrently as a Wi-Fi Direct
access point/group participant and network Wi-Fi device.
[0057]      In a situation where the smartphone operating system does not allow the
Product App to control the smartphone wireless communications in order to establish a
peer-to-peer link with an access administrator, the user may use any mechanism provided
by the smartphone to establish a peer-to-peer communication link with an access
administrator prior to starting the Product App.
[0058]      If the user wants the new access administrator to run in Wi-Fi Direct mode, they
preferably select this option in the Product App. The Product App then leads the user
through a series of data inputs using the smartphone's touch screen 12 as a human
interface. The Product App communicates with system microcontroller 208 and replaces
the general parameters used for the initial connection to specific parameters which define
the access administrator as a unique Wi-Fi Direct product. These may include: setting a

                                                18
unique encryption key so all data transfers between the access administrator and the
smartphone are protected; setting the access administrator name to a unique, easily
recognisable identifier; and setting a password in the access administrator used to
establish a secure link with a smartphone.
[0059]      The Product App preferably maintains a record of these specific parameters in
the smartphone memory for future identification of, and connection to, the configured
access administrator.
[0060]      Once the setup procedure is complete, the Product App preferably commands
the access administrator firmware to "restart". When the applications firmware restarts, the
access administrator will use the user specified data to populate and create its own unique
identity. The smartphone which was used to set this identity will be able to automatically
connect to that access administrator because the new specific parameters are known.
Where the smartphone operating system allows, the Product App can then be used to
preferably automatically establish a communications link with the access administrator
each time the user selects that particular device in the Product App.
[0061]      Once an access administrator has been configured, any other smartphone can
only connect if the user knows the specific parameters that are now unique to that
particular access administrator. If a second smartphone searches for Wi-Fi access points
or Wi-Fi Direct devices, it will see the configured access administrator with the
characteristic that it is "secure". To connect to it, the user will have to know the specific
password allocated to that access administrator, otherwise it will not be able to establish a
communications link. If the password is known and entered into the smartphone when
requested, a communication link between the second smartphone and the access
administrator will be established. The Product App is still preferably required to control the
access administrator and this may have additional security measures depending on the
nature of the application.
[0062]      If, instead of configuring the newly installed access administrator in Wi-Fi Direct
mode, the user chooses it to operate in network Wi-Fi mode, this is selected as the
required option and the Product App determines if there are one or more WLANs available
for the access administrator to connect to as a client. The Product App requests the user to

                                              19
confirm the preferred network and asks the user to confirm and/or input any necessary
network parameters such as the network password so the access administrator can
connect to the WLAN as a client.
[0063]       The Product App, via the smartphone, communicates with system
microcontroller 208 and sets the parameters needed for the access administrator to
establish itself as a network Wi-Fi device which may include any parameters that uniquely
identify the access administrator on the network. When all of the appropriate parameters
are known and updated, the Product App commands the access administrator to restart its
firmware as a network Wi-Fi device. The access administrator then connects to the WLAN
as a client and is accessible by the smartphone Product App via the WLAN access point.
The access administrator running as a network Wi-Fi client can then be controlled by other
smartphones on the same WLAN. In one preferred embodiment, it may be desirable for the
access administrator to include additional security measures such as password protection,
a socket layer with the Product App, or other measures to prevent the access administrator
being controlled by other devices on the network without authorization.
[0064]       Preferably, where the smartphone is configured to determine from an access
administrator's wireless signal that the access administrator is a new wireless device that
can be configured as a WLAN network client, the smartphone preferably allows a user to
automatically input the necessary network parameters of a known WLAN network from the
smartphone's memory into the access administrator to automatically configure the access
administrator as a network client of the known WLAN network. The smartphone may also
preferably be able to determine from the access administrator's wireless signal a product
identifier allowing the smartphone to automatically download the access administrator's
related Product App from the appropriate app store.
[0065]       Once an access administrator has been configured as a Wi-Fi Direct access
point/group participant or a network Wi-Fi device, it preferably continues to operate in that
mode even after it has been powered off and then on again. All of the specific operating
parameters for each mode are preferably saved in the non-volatile memory and are
retained if power is removed. When power is restored, system microcontroller 208 powers
up the same Wi-Fi mode that was running before power was removed, and the appropriate
firmware and operating parameters are restored from non-volatile memory.

                                                  20
[0066]      There are applications where an access administrator running concurrent Wi-Fi
Direct access point/group participant and network Wi-Fi capabilities is desirable. In this
situation, the user via the Product App may activate both modes, allowing either mode to
be used. Equally, the user, via the Product App, can choose to disable one of the modes,
or can change the Wi-Fi mode from Wi-Fi Direct mode to network Wi-Fi mode, or vice
versa, as desired.
[0067]       Each time the Wi-Fi mode is changed, the parameters for the new mode are
preferably retained by system microcontroller 208 in the event power is disconnected or
lost. When power is restored, system microcontroller 208 powers up in the same Wi-Fi
mode as previously operating before power was removed, and the appropriate operating
parameters are restored from the non-volatile memory. Thus, system microcontroller 208
preferably is configured with an adapted default setting that can be restored from the non
volatile memory.
[0068]       It is envisaged that there may be times when an access administrator may need
to be completely reset. The Product App is preferably able to communicate with an access
administrator and command it to re-initialise to the factory default configuration. In this
case, all user-defined parameters that were loaded into the access administrator are lost
and it is returned to its factory default state, ready to receive new user-defined parameters.
[0069]      The access administrator may incorporate a human interface in the form of
touch pads, buttons or switches which the user could use to cause the access
administrator to: re-initialise to the factory default configuration without the use of a
smartphone or Product App; reboot the system; or assist in a Wi-Fi Protected Setup. In one
preferred embodiment the access administrator may be configured to accept a command
via local network communications module 206 using a power line communications
connection or a wireless Zigbee connection causing it to re-initialise to the factory default
configuration without the direct wireless use of a smartphone or Product App on the
smartphone. If desired, the access administrator may be configured for operation without
any manual inputs on the device itself.
[0070]       In one preferred embodiment, wireless communications 202 may include
Bluetooth capabilities in addition to Wi-Fi Direct and network Wi-Fi capabilities. Referring to

                                                21
Fig. 3, a peer-to-peer Bluetooth communication link between smartphone 10 and access
administrator 200 may be used by the Product App to enter parameters for establishing a
Wi-Fi Direct or network Wi-Fi communications link, or open a Wi-Fi Direct or network Wi-Fi
communications link, or may in its own right operate as a peer-to-peer communications link
for exchange of data between the Product App and access administrator 200. The Product
App or a human interface on access administrator in the form of a touch pad, button or
switch may facilitate the establishment of a Bluetooth peer-to-peer connection between
access administrator 200 and smartphone 10. The Product App may be configured to allow
a user to specify Bluetooth as the preferred peer-to-peer communication method between
access administrator 200 and smartphone 10.
[0071]       Where smartphone 10 and access administrator 200 use a proprietary
implementation of peer-to-peer Wi-Fi or an adaptation of Wi-Fi Direct, access administrator
200 and smartphone10 are preferably configured to use the handshake, negotiation
methods, protocols and configuration requirements particular to that proprietary
implementation of peer-to-peer Wi-Fi or adaptation of Wi-Fi Direct, and may incorporate
any hardware, software, firmware or authentication schemes necessary, and may use
Bluetooth to facilitate the process where supported.
[0072]       In one preferred embodiment, the access administrator may include NFC
capability that the Product App could use when first communicating with a new access
administrator to automatically establish a Wi-Fi Direct, Bluetooth or other peer-to-peer
communications link with those smartphones that support NFC. This process is commonly
referred to as "bootstrapping" and is an established method for initializing communications
familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art.
[0073]       Referring back to Fig. 2, local network communications module 206 preferably
includes any combination of integrated circuits, components, controllers, digital signal
processors, transceivers, memory, microprocessors, SiPs, or SoCs that allow system
microcontroller 208 to communicate with an electricity management unit preferably through
the mains wiring of a building using a power line communication protocol. In one preferred
embodiment, power line communications may be implemented using a single chip solution
with integrated random access memory (RAM), physical layer (PHY), medium access
controller (MAC), and analog front end. Local network communications module 206

                                              22
preferably supports any of: the HomePlug Powerline Appliance Homeplug standards
and/or specifications including HomePlug Green PHY; IEEE 1901, 1901.1, 1901.2
standards and/or specifications; and/or ITU-T's G.hn standards and/or specifications;
including any amendments, extensions, subsets, revisions or proprietary implementations.
Other suitable standards and/or specifications include, but are not limited to, those from the
Universal Powerline Association, SiConnect, the HD-PLC Alliance, Xsilon, and the
Powerline Intelligent Metering Evolution Alliance.
[0074]      In one preferred embodiment, in addition to, or instead of, power line
communications, local network communications module 206 preferably includes the
necessary hardware, transceivers, components and/or controllers to support wireless
communication with an electricity management unit via any suitable PAN or HAN standard,
protocol and/or specification configurable for use in the utility industry including any Zigbee
protocol or standard published by the Zigbee Alliance; any protocol or standard published
by the WI-SUN Alliance; and/or any protocol or standard based on IEEE 802.15 including,
but not limited to, IEEE 802.15.4.
[0075]      Because power line communications can travel outside a user's building via the
mains power wiring, access administrator 200 preferably supports encryption for
communications with an electricity management unit 300. Access administrator 200 and
electricity management unit 300 preferably adopt the standards and/or specifications for
security and encryption of data including any passwords, security keys or other secure
linking methods that are native to the chosen power line communication protocol.
[0076]      In one preferred embodiment, and without limiting the ability to use any other
pairing techniques of a particular power line communications standard and/or protocol,
where access administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 communicate using a
HomePlug Powerline Appliance standard and/or specification, a secure communication
pathway between electricity management unit 300 and access administrator 200 may
preferably be formed by entering a network membership key of the electricity management
unit into access administrator 200 via the Product App, thereby configuring access
administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 with the same network membership
key and allowing them to form a secure network. The network membership key may be
recorded on electricity management unit 300, or in paperwork or an electronic format

                                               23
associated with electricity management unit 300. The network membership key may be
obtained by preferably entering a serial number such as the serial number of an electricity
management unit 300 into the Product App, the Product App then accessing a service
platform using the smartphone's native cellular or network Wi-Fi capabilities, and
exchanging the serial number for the network membership key assigned to electricity
management unit 300 identified by the serial number, which Product App could then
preferably automatically load into access administrator 200.
[0077]      Electricity management unit 300 and access administrator 200 are preferably
provided together as a matched pair with all networking requirements already
preconfigured. For example, access administrator 200 may be provided with all networking
requirements entered by the vendor of access administrator 200, thereby being
preconfigured to establish a secure network with a particular electricity management unit
300.
[0078]      If desired, access administrator 200 may include a human interface such as a
button, switch or touch pad that could be used to put access administrator 200 into a
secure pairing mode for the purpose of establishing a secure communications link with
electricity management unit 300.
[0079]      A secure network between access administrator 200 and electricity
management unit 300 may be limited to access administrator 200 and electricity
management unit 300 if desired, thereby forming a private secure network or dedicated
peer-to-peer communication pathway. A software, firmware or hardware layer in access
administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 may be included to provide an
additional security service preventing other devices from communicating with access
administrator 200 or electricity management unit 300 even if on the same physical layer
using the same network membership key or security credentials, thereby maintaining a
peer-to-peer communications pathway between access administrator 200 and electricity
management unit 300.
[0080]      Referring to Fig. 2, data is physically modulated onto the mains wiring preferably
through power line coupler 214 which preferably includes any necessary isolation or filters.

                                                  24
[0081]       Access administrator 200 may be configured to include one or more illumination
means or visual elements. A visual element could be by way of simple light emitting diodes,
LCD, colour LCD, an integrated display, or any combination thereof.
[0082]       It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the system
described above can be varied in many ways without departing from the scope of the
present invention. By way of example only, elements of wireless communications module
202, system microcontroller 208, perpetual clock calendar 204 and local network
communications module 206 may be aggregated or separated into single components,
SoCs or SiPs. For example only, wireless Zigbee communications may be added to local
network communications module 206, and operate individually, concurrently, or completely
replace, power line communications. If desired, power line communications and Zigbee
wireless communications may be aggregated into a single SoC or SiP.
[0083]       Fig. 3 is a pictorial representation of system 100 showing an exemplary
arrangement of smart phone 10, access administrator 200, electricity management unit 300
and preferred communications systems connecting each of the elements. Electricity
management unit 300 is preferably configured to monitor electrical flow and usage.
Electrical management unit 300 may be, for example only, a smartmeter. The Wi-Fi WLAN
has an access point 14. Access point 14 has an Internet connection 16. Wi-Fi WLAN
communications preferably pass through access point 14. Where access administrator 200
is configured as a network Wi-Fi device, it preferably operates as a client of access point
14. For smartphone 10 to communicate with access administrator 200 running as a
network Wi-Fi client, smartphone 10 is also preferably connected to access point 14 as a
client. Messages from smartphone 10 could then pass through access point 14 to access
administrator 200. If smartphone 10 were not in wireless range of access point 14, it may
still be able to communicate with access point 14 via internet connection 16 if so
configured. The communications between a smartphone and an access point through an
Internet connection would be well understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.
[0084]       In addition to, or instead of, operating as a network Wi-Fi device, access
administrator 200 may be configured as a Wi-Fi Direct access point/group participant. In
that instance, smartphone 10 can wirelessly connect directly to access administrator 200
peer-to-peer without requiring any other device. Accordingly, it can be seen that: (1) access

                                                25
point 14 is not required for peer-to-peer communications; (2) the communications link is
formed on an "as needed" basis; and (3) that smartphone 10 needs to be within radio
range of access administrator 200 to establish a direct communications link. If desired, a
peer-to-peer connection between smartphone 10 and access administrator 200 may be
established using Bluetooth.
[0085]      It can be appreciated that a network Wi-Fi connection and a peer-to-peer
connection offer a different mix of convenience and security. An access administrator
operating as a network Wi-Fi device may be remotely controlled by a smartphone where
the access point has an internet connection, however the access administrator then
becomes exposed to the outside world and may be vulnerable to external threats such as
hacking. Alternatively, a peer-to-peer connection by virtue of its limited wireless range and
architecture offers a higher level of security. The balance between operational modes is
usually subjective and dependant on the application at hand. In some instances
infrastructure limitations such as the availability of a WLAN may further constrain
operational modes.
[0086]      Access administrator 200 may be configured to provide a received signal
strength indicator, or received channel power indicator, of access point 14 which access
administrator 20 may preferably report to the Product App for display on smartphone
screen 12. A received signal strength indicator, or received channel power indicator, is a
measurement of the power present in a received radio signal and allows a user to locate
wireless products such as access administrator 200 close enough to access point 14 in
order to ensure that a sufficiently strong wireless signal exists between the two devices to
provide the best environment for a stable and reliable communications link. The Product
App also preferably displays on smartphone screen 12 a received signal strength indicator,
or received channel power indicator, for access administrator 200 measured by
smartphone 10. The Product App may display on smartphone screen 12 a received signal
strength indicator, or equivalent, of a Zigbee wireless signal from electricity management
unit 300 measured by access administrator 200.
[0087]      If desired, access administrator 200 may be configured with a visual indicator
capable of displaying a received signal strength indication for any wired or wireless signal
that access administrator 200 may be capable of measuring.

                                              26
[0088]      Referring again to Fig. 3, access administrator 200 preferably derives its power
and communicates with electricity management unit 300 through mains power lines using
power line communications. It can be appreciated that power line communications allow for
the convenient placement of an access administrator within a building's mains power
architecture.
[0089]      Access administrator 200 may be configured to communicate with electricity
management unit 300 using a Zigbee wireless standard instead of, or additional to, using
power line communications. Where access administrator 200 is configured with the ability
to communicate using Zigbee and/or power line communications, and electricity
management unit 300 supports both Zigbee and/or power line communications, access
administrator 200 preferably includes the ability to dynamically assess the most robust
communication channel with electricity management unit 300 and use the most robust
communication medium in forming a communications link or transferring data down open
communication links. It can be appreciated that some electricity management units may be
installed with only Zigbee wireless communication capabilities. Preferably, access
administrator 200 is configured with both Zigbee wireless and power line communications,
but only operates using Zigbee wireless with those electricity management units that only
support Zigbee. Access administrator 200 may be configured with Zigbee wireless and no
power line communications for use with those electricity management units that only
support Zigbee.
[0090]      Because smartphones do not include native power line or Zigbee
communication capabilities, they cannot communicate directly with an electricity
management unit 300. Access administrator 200 preferably performs any computational
tasks necessary to ensure data from the Product App is transposed into a format
compatible with electricity management unit 300, and data from electricity management
unit 300 is transposed into a format compatible with the Product App, thereby facilitating
two way communications between the Product App and electricity management unit 300 as
shown in Fig. 3.
[0091]      In order for the Product App running on smartphone 10 and electricity
management unit 300 to communicate, any data preferably passes between access
administrator 200 and smartphone 10 wirelessly either peer-to-peer or via WLAN,

                                                 27
depending on the chosen configuration of access administrator 200. Any data passing
between access administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 preferably does so
over a building's mains power wiring using power line communications, or wirelessly using
Zigbee where configured.
[0092]       Electricity management unit 300 is preferably configured to report a broad range
of data to the Product App. For example, this may include instantaneous voltage, current
and power, Irms and Vrms, average real and apparent power, energy-to-pulse conversion,
tariffs, electricity consumed over a pre-defined time period, and any other data or metric
that may be measured, recorded or stored in electricity management unit 300. Once the
appropriate data has been transferred to the Product App, the Product App can preferably
perform any necessary additional calculations or conversions and display the results on the
smartphone's touch sensitive screen for the user to view.
[0093]       Preferably, the Product App is configured to use a smartphone's cellular or
network Wi-Fi capabilities to exchange data with a service platform. Exchange of data with
a service platform could include, by way of example only, data for the purpose of
calculating or displaying trend analysis, historical analysis, comparative analysis, granular
metrics, costing, tariffs, billing and any other uses of the electrical data measured by
electricity management unit 300.
[0094]       In a preferred embodiment, the Product App is configured to use data from
electricity management unit 300 and, where necessary, data from a service platform to
determine and display present energy usage represented in a cost per unit of time. In that
way, a user through the Product App may determine the total instantaneous cost per unit of
time as an aggregation of the electricity consumed by all electrical apparatus connected to
electricity management unit 300 relative to the tariff.
[0095]       In order to reduce power consumption and promote environmentally friendly
energy use, a user may also find it advantageous to determine the consumption metrics of
an individual electrical apparatus in a cost per unit of time. The Product App is preferably
configured to allow a consumer to "zero" the instantaneous cost per unit of time to
effectively establish a base against which any subsequent variation in electricity
consumption could then be used to calculate and display an instantaneous cost per unit of

                                                28
time relative to the measured variation of electricity consumed from the base. In that way a
user could preferably zero the instantaneous cost per unit of time and then turn on an
individual electrical apparatus to see how much that apparatus cost to run represented in a
cost per unit of time. Alternately, a user could also preferably zero the instantaneous cost
per unit of time and then turn off an individual electrical apparatus to see how much turning
off that apparatus would save represented as a negative cost per unit of time or saving per
unit of time.
[0096]      The Product App is preferably configured to allow the user to save the
calculated cost per unit of time associated with an individual electrical apparatus into the
Product App to compile a database so that the user may quickly and easily identify and
compare the electrical consumption profiles of a range of products and/or systems.
[0097]      Where electrical management unit 300 supports time of use tariffs, the Product
App preferably displays the cost per unit of time for the present tariff as well as a cost per
unit of time for any other tariff.
[0098]      The Product App is preferably configured to allow a user to enter a number of
parameters such as the day or days, time of day and for how long an electrical apparatus is
operational, allowing the Product App to use any combination of cost per unit of time
measurements and calculations, tariffs and operational times to display an estimated cost
for an individual electrical apparatus or collection of electrical apparatuses over a user
definable period of time. The Product App is preferably configured to analyse the cost of an
individual electrical apparatus, or collection of electrical apparatuses, over a user definable
period of time and suggest a means to minimise cost by reducing and/or shifting the use of
an apparatus, or apparatuses, to more efficient days or periods in a day depending on
analysis of any variable time of use tariffs. The Product App is preferably configured to
offer an alert to avoid operating a particular electrical apparatus, or apparatuses, in
response to an anticipated spike in peak demand.
[0099]      It can be appreciated that cost per unit of time could equally be substituted or
supplemented with a number of different metrics without departing from the scope of the
present invention. By way of example only, other suitable metrics may include
instantaneous power represented in kW/hrs, an amount of a greenhouse gas generated

                                                   29
per hour, and/or an equivalent carbon emissions value based on the electricity being used.
If a carbon emissions metric is utilised, parameters used to calculate a real-time carbon
emissions preferably include power usage and power source (e.g., coal burning source,
hydro, wind and/or solar).
[00100]      Electricity management unit 300 may be configured as a power control device
capable of regulating the supply of electricity to one or more other devices and/or circuits
within a building. The Product App may be configured to preferably allow a user to issue
commands to electricity management unit 300, causing it to vary the supply of electricity to
one or more devices and/or circuits based at least in part on instructions communicated
from the Product App. In that way, and by example only, a user could schedule the supply
of electricity to one or more devices and/or circuits, the schedule being executed by
electricity management unit 300 without needing a communications link with the
smartphone. System microcontroller 208 may also be configured to preferably issue
commands to electricity management unit 300, causing it to vary the supply of electricity to
the one or more devices and/or circuits based at least in part on instructions communicated
from the Product App. In that way, and by example only, a user could schedule the supply
of electricity to one or more devices and/or circuits, the commands being generated by
system microcontroller 208 without needing an ongoing communications link with the
smartphone.
[00101]      Where electricity management unit 300 is configured as a demand response
enabled device capable of varying power to one or more devices and/or circuits within a
structure based on a trigger event being received by electricity management unit 300, a
user through the Product App may preferably configure an action to be taken by electricity
management unit 300 in response to a trigger event. A trigger event may include, but is not
limited to, variation of a tariff or the receipt of a demand response command, threshold,
flag, notification or data packet.
[00102]      Access administrator 200 may include a display if desired. A user preferably
uses the Product App to configure the information to be shown on the display. The display
preferably shows a series of visual indicators and/or coloured visual indicators and/or
characters including any appropriate language support. Microcontroller 208 is preferably
able to manipulate the visual elements of the display based on metrics reported from

                                                  30
electricity management unit 300 in order to visually allow a user to interpret their electricity
metrics at any point in time. By way of example only, the display may dynamically show the
cumulative cost in dollars of the total bill for the current reporting period based on the
electricity consumption being reported by electricity management unit 300 while coloured
indicators may represent the current tariff level in a visual rather than numerical form,
ranging say from green for a normal tariff to yellow for shoulder and red for peak tariff
conditions. The display may also include a visual representation of speed, such as a
rotating disc or pointer graphic, speed of the movement of the disc or pointer graphic
increasing or slowing commensurate with the relative total power being consumed in much
the same way that the mechanical discs move in older power meters. In a preferred
embodiment, the display mirrors what is shown on the smartphone screen.
[00103]      The system preferably includes a budget alert feature to help a user control their
energy costs. Preferably, a user may enter into one or more fields of the Product App a
desired budget for a defined period of time. The Product App preferably uses the data from
electricity management unit 300 and, where necessary, data from a service platform to
display the current cumulative consumption for the relative time period within the defined
budget period, thereby allowing the user to determine how much of their budget had been
used at that point. The Product App preferably calculates the average consumption over
the analyzed time period and applies the average to the time remaining in the defined
budget period to determine if the current rate of consumption would result in the desired
budget being exceeded. The Product App may visually display the result and where the
current rate of rate consumption would result in the desired budget being exceeded,
suggest a target daily consumption rate to meet the desired budget. The Product App may
preferably conduct budget calculations in the background and alert a user where it
calculates that the current rate of rate consumption would result in the desired budget
being exceeded.
[00104]      Fig. 4 is a pictorial representation of a system 400 having a plurality of
communication pathways between and amongst smartphone 10, access administrator 200,
electricity management unit 300, a service platform 500, a residential or commercial local
power management network 600, a market operator 18 and an electricity industry

                                                 31
participant 20. It will be appreciated that other communications pathways or arrangements
may be possible and within the scope of the present invention.
[00105]     Several communications pathways are similar to those described above in
relation to Fig. 3. In particular, wireless peer-to-peer connection 402 between smartphone
10 and access administrator 200, WLAN connection 404 between access administrator
200 and access point 14, WLAN connection 406 between smartphone 10 and access
point 14, and power line communication and/or Zigbee wireless connection 408 between
access administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 are preferably configured as
described above for system 100.
[00106]     Continuing with reference to Fig. 4, service platform 500 is preferably an
applications service platform or software as a service platform that communicates with
smartphone 10, and preferably the Product App, via a cellular connection 410 and/or
internet connection 414, depending on the cellular capabilities of smartphone 10 and/or the
connection of smartphone 10 to access point 14 and access point 14 having internet
connection 16, the methods of which would be well understood by those of ordinary skill in
the art.
[00107]     As shown in Fig. 4, residential or commercial network 600 is preferably
composed mainly of system 100 shown in Fig. 3, with one or more power control units 700
(described in further detail below). Network 600 is preferably contained within a building or
unit of a building, and in communication with one or more of smartphone 10, service
platform 500, and electricity participant 20.
[00108]     Market operator 18 is preferably responsible for controlling and managing the
assets of electricity industry participant 20 in order to ensure the generation and power fed
into an electricity grid can satisfy demand at any particular point in time. Electricity industry
participant 20 is preferably a party responsible for at least one of the actual generation,
transmission, retailing and metering of electricity, for example, a utility company. In certain
situations, and depending on a particular nation's regulatory framework, market operator
18 and electricity industry participant 20 may be the same entity without changing the
scope of the invention.

                                                 32
[00109]     Because it is very costly and difficult to store electrical energy, the instantaneous
demand for power is satisfied through a system of bringing electrical generators online to
increase capacity during high consumption periods and taking generators offline to shed
load when the electricity being produced exceeds what is optimally required. The supply of
power into a grid is typically a competitive process where a market operator 18 through
communication pathway 416 puts an offer to the market to purchase an amount of power
required to meet anticipated demand. Communication channel 416 could be by way of the
internet, wireless, satellite, telephone or a direct line, the actual communication standard
and methodology of which is not material as long as data can be exchanged between
market operator 18 and electricity industry participant 20 through a medium and in a format
that the recipient can interpret and use. Typically, electricity industry participants such as
generators bid to meet the offer of market operator 18 who usually chooses the lowest bid
and schedules the electrical supply from the winning generator. Market operator 18
typically utilizes highly sophisticated predictive modelling to anticipate future energy
requirements in order to efficiently manage the generation assets of electricity industry
participant 20.
[00110]      In that way, cheaper forms of electricity generation typically provide what is
referred to as the base load with more expensive forms of electricity generation supplying
what is referred to as peak loads. Cheaper forms of electricity generation typically use
higher polluting fuels while more costly forms of electricity generation use cleaner fuels.
Cheaper forms of electricity generation also typically take a long time to bring up to
operational speed and are not suitable to meet the uncertain timing of peak power demand.
Peak power demand is usually met by generators that can be brought online quickly, but
typically consume expensive fuel in order to reach operational speed quickly.
[00111]     The problem for the electricity industry is that the cycle of peaks and troughs in
energy generation and consumption place a strain on the transmission infrastructure; result
in a very high cost for electricity produced during peak periods; and favour low cost, but
higher polluting generation methods, to supply the bulk of energy requirements. It is
therefore highly advantageous to smooth energy consumption by reducing demand during
peak periods, while also looking to push energy intensive tasks into off peak periods to
reduce the need for additional base load generation using higher polluting methods.

                                                   33
[00112]      It will be appreciated that the description of the electricity market above has
been simplified considerably, and may differ from market to market. However, this
simplification does not substantially affect consideration of the present invention.
[00113]      Service platform 500 preferably includes the necessary computer(s), computing
device(s), server(s) and/or technologies capable of processing data and/or analysing data
and/or compiling data and/or transposing data and/or storing data and/or exchanging data
and/or transferring data and/or receiving data and/or manipulating data in any necessary
way and can communicate with at least smartphone 10 and may also preferably
communicate with market operator 18 and/or electricity industry participant 20 and/or
another third party, using any available communication pathway, or pathways, and
communication technologies. In one preferred embodiment, service platform 500 may also
communicate with access administrator 200.
[00114]      Data that service platform 500 handles may include, but is not limited to,
information from electricity management unit 300, forecasting, notifications, analysis of any
metric, tariffs, historical information, billing information, usage information, user data, user
measurements, location information including global positioning data, demand response
configurations, alerts, support information, customer service information, fault reports,
contracts, agreements, request for service, offers, email, short message service (SMS),
and push notifications.
[00115]      It will be appreciated that the data capabilities of service platform 500 allow it to
act as an intermediary or clearing house for a number of services. By way of example, in
one preferred embodiment, market operator 18 through communication pathway 412 could
supply service platform 500 with forward forecasting of the anticipated demand for
electricity. Communication channel 412 could be by way of the internet, wireless, satellite,
telephone or a direct line, the actual communication standard and methodology of which is
not material as long as data can be exchanged between market operator 18 and service
platform 500 through a medium and in a format that the recipient can interpret and use.
Using the forward forecast data from market operator 18, service platform 500 preferably
generates a message for smartphone 10 warning consumers that a peak demand period
was expected at a particular time and deliver that message using cellular connection 410
and/or internet connection 414, through WLAN connection 406 between smartphone 10

                                                 34
and access point 14. Consumers then preferably use smartphone 10 through access
administrator 200 to interrogate electricity management unit 300 in order to determine
current and anticipated energy consumption at the expected peak demand period in order
to manage their own power consumption in response to the data from market operator 18.
[00116]      Any message from service platform 500 to smartphone 10 is preferably
delivered as a push notification to the Product App. It will be appreciated that the use of
additional intermediary services from Google, Microsoft, Apple or another third party may
be required in order for service platform 500 to effect a push notification to the Product
App, the methods of which would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.
Alternatively, the message from service platform 500 could be delivered by way of SMS to
smartphone 10. It will be appreciated that the use of additional intermediary services from a
telecommunications company may be required in order for service platform 500 to send an
SMS to smartphone 10, the methods of which would be understood by those of ordinary
skill in the art. If desired, the user may be presented with an option to select a message
delivery means as their preferred delivery means. For example, the user may select to
receive notifications via e-mail.
[00117]      Service platform 500 preferably exchanges data with a party in the electricity
industry participant 20 through communication pathway 418 rather than, or in addition to,
market operator 18. Communication pathway 418 could be by way of the internet, wireless,
satellite, telephone or a direct line, the actual communication means and methodology of
which is not material as long as data can be exchanged between a party in electricity
industry participant 20 and service platform 500 through a medium and in a format that the
recipient can interpret and use.
[00118]      It will be appreciated that a communication pathway between electricity industry
participant 20 and service platform 500 could, with the facilitation of service platform 500,
be created to form a communication pathway between electricity industry participant 20
and smartphone 10, and preferably Product App running on smartphone 10, utilizing the
communication pathway between service platform 500 and smartphone 10 through cellular
connection 410 and/or through internet connection 414, depending on the cellular
capabilities of smartphone 10 and/or the connection of smartphone 10 to access point 14
and access point 14 having internet connection 16.

                                                 35
[00119]      Potential uses for a communication pathway between electricity industry
participant 20 and smartphone 10, and preferably the Product App running on smartphone
10, could include the exchange of data for forecasting, location, notifications, analysis of
any metrics, comparative analysis against other consumers, tariffs, historical information,
billing information, usage information, user data, user measurements, demand response
configurations, alerts, technical support information, customer service information, request
for service, offers, contracts, agreements, fault reports, email, SMSand push notifications.
By way of example, and with reference to Fig. 4, electricity industry participant 20 through
communication pathway 418 could use service platform 500 as an intermediary for
supplying smartphone 10 with forward forecasting of the anticipated demand for electricity
which electricity industry participant 20 may have received from market operator 18
through communication pathway 416. By way of another example, electricity industry
participant 20 through communication pathway 418 could use service platform 500 as an
intermediary for supplying smartphone 10 with an alert for a variation in tariff that electricity
industry participant 20 was about to implement in electricity management unit 300 through
communication pathway 426. Communication pathway 426 could be by way of the internet,
wireless, satellite, telephone or a direct line, as long as data can be exchanged between an
electricity industry participant 20 and electricity management unit 300 through a medium
and in a format that the recipient can interpret and use.
[00120]      Service platform 500 is preferably capable of communicating and exchanging
data with any smartphone running the Product App. Service platform 500 may be
configured as a gateway mechanism for smartphone 10, through cellular connection 410,
to remotely communicate with access administrator 200 through internet connection 414
where access administrator 200 is configured as a client of access point 14.
[00121]      Turning again to Fig. 4, smartphone 22 depicts an example of a separate
smartphone from smartphone 10 that would preferably communicate with the access
administrator and electricity management unit installed in the building respective to the
owner of smartphone 22. Smartphone 22 may run an entirely different operating system to
smartphone 10, but as long as smartphone 22 is adapted to install and run the Product
App, it would preferably be able to communicate with service platform 500 in the same way
as smartphone 10 running the Product App. Communication pathway 420 preferably

                                                36
replicates the relationship defined for cellular connection 410, internet connection 414,
WLAN connection 406, access point 14 and internet connection 16 in relation to
smartphone 10 and service platform 500.
[00122]     Preferably, the Product App is configured to upload any data stored by it on an
associated smartphone; any data extracted from, or reported by, an associated
smartphone such as user or location data; any data extracted from, or reported by, an
associated access administrator; and/or any data extracted from, or reported by, an
electricity management unit, to service platform 500. Service platform 500 may choose to
share any information uploaded to it with a market operator 18 or an electricity industry
participant 20.
[00123]     Service platform 500 preferably calculates and delivers to smartphone 10 an
analysis of the data from the Product App running on smartphone 10 and/or electricity
management unit 300, and may perform a comparison with data compiled from the Product
App and/or electricity management unit associated with other smartphones providing data
to service platform 500.
[00124]     By way of example only, the user of smartphone 10 via the Product App may
choose to transfer tariff and/or usage data from the Product App and electricity
management 300 to service platform 500. Service platform 500 preferably delivers data to
smartphone 10, allowing the resident Product App to generate and/or display a comparison
against the data supplied by other smartphones reporting to service platform 500. In that
way a user could, for example, compare their electricity consumption against an average
for the electricity consumed in a similar structure, or analyse the impact of a tariff from an
alternate energy retailer on their actual electricity usage and tariff over a defined time
period. By way of another example, smartphone owners through the Product App could
preferably elect to upload the measured consumption metrics of an electrical apparatus to
service platform 500. Service platform 500 could create a database 502 (Fig. 4) where
other smartphone users through a Product App resident on the smartphone, or through a
website portal, could browse the measured consumption metrics of a chosen electrical
apparatus.

                                               37
[00125]      Referring to Fig. 4, database 502 is preferably configured to store consumption
metrics from a plurality of sources for one or more electrical devices and/or systems. In a
preferred embodiment, platform 500 utilises the consumption data stored in database 502
to generate ratings information for a given electrical apparatus or system. It will be
appreciated that the data may be stored in the cloud if desired rather than a single
database server.
[00126]      The ratings information preferably includes energy efficiency ratings and
average power consumption costs over a predetermined time period (e.g., weekly,
fortnightly, monthly and/or annual) for each electrical device or system. Each electrical
device or system may be categorised by manufacturer, brand, and model.
[00127]      Conventional energy rating systems often rely on testing performed at a
manufacturer or independent government agency. Due to variances in manufacturing
methods and conditions, the energy efficiencies of electrical devices and systems often
change, making the static testing of products less accurate. The present invention in a
preferred form advantageously permits dynamic energy ratings of electrical apparatuses
and systems. For example, as the energy metrics for a given electrical apparatus or system
is received by service platform 500 from one or more networks 600 or smartphones (via the
Product App), service platform 500 is preferably configured to dynamically update
(calculate) and maintain ratings information such as energy efficiency ratings and average
power consumption costs for each electrical apparatus and system being tracked. This
information presents a more accurate representation of energy ratings than that offered by
conventional systems. The ratings information or data may be used by governments,
utilities, and/or manufacturers to promote energy-conscience purchasing of products by
offering incentives such as rebates. Such rebates may be tiered based on the particular
rating, which may be, for example only, a numerical (e.g., 1 to 5) or symbolic (zero to five
star) rating. Other variations are possible and within the scope of the present invention.
[00128]      Service platform 500 may preferably analyze the data from the Product App
running on smartphone 10 and/or electricity management unit 300, and deliver to the
Product App a comparison showing the differential of alternate tariff(s) supplied by an
energy retailer who is an electricity industry participant on the electricity usage and tariff
provided by the Product App. Service platform 500, by way of the Product App, may

                                                 38
preferably be authorized to make an offer on behalf of an energy retailer in the electricity
market for the recipient to transfer their electricity billing to the energy retailer making the
offer on the terms of the offer. A recipient of an offer could accept that offer through the
Product App, the acceptance of which would be relayed to the appropriate energy retailer
in the electricity market by service platform 500.
[00129]     Any data processing performed by service platform 500 may preferably limit the
data used to a group within a pre-defined geographical location.
[00130]     Service platform 500 is preferably configured to manage or limit communication
pathways based on the geographic location of smartphone 10 and/or access administrator
200 and/or electricity management unit 300 and/or market operator 18 and/or electricity
industry participant 20.
[00131]     Referring again to Fig. 4, it will be appreciated that access administrator 200
may operate as a communication gateway allowing a smartphone to operate as a control
and/or programming interface in a power line communications network and/or Zigbee
wireless network with at least one electricity management unit 300 and one or more power
control units 700. Examples of power control units are described in aforementioned
International Application Nos. PCT/AU2011/001666 and PCT/AU2012/000959.
[00132]     The power line communications and/or Zigbee wireless communications
supported by access administrator 200 and electricity management unit 300 is preferably
configured to allow networking with a power control unit 700 capable of regulating the
supply of electricity to one or more devices and/or circuits, or may be integrated into an
electrical apparatus.
[00133]     The Product App running on smartphone 10 preferably uses access
administrator 200 to load any security or networking credentials necessary for power
control unit 700 to join a secure power line communications network and/or Zigbee wireless
communications network between access administrator 200 and electricity management
unit 300, although the authoring of a power control unit 700 is not so limited and may make
use of any mechanism or methodology available in the chosen power line communications
and/or Zigbee wireless protocols and specifications for joining a network. By way of

                                               39
example, a human interface such as a switch, button or touch pad on a power control unit
700 and/or access administrator 200 and/or electricity management unit 300 could be used
to initiate a pairing mode to load any security or networking credentials required for power
control unit 700 to join a secure power line communications network and/or Zigbee wireless
communications network between access administrator 200 and electricity management
unit 300, the methods of which would be understood by those skilled in the art.
[00134]      The Product App preferably allows the user to give a unique name to any power
control unit 700 making it easy to identify, such as, for example, "pool filter".
[00135]      The Product App, through access administrator 200, is preferably configured to
allow a user to program or control a power control unit 700 directly using power line
communications or Zigbee wireless communications 422. In another preferred
embodiment, the Product App through access administrator 200 may be configured to
allow a user to program or control a power control unit 700 using power line
communications or Zigbee wireless communications 424 through electricity management
unit 300 as an intermediary or network administrator. In another preferred embodiment,
power line communications or Zigbee wireless communications 422, power line
communications or Zigbee wireless communications 424, access administrator 200 and
electricity management unit 300 may preferably be configured to support a mesh
communications network.
[00136]      Referring to Figs. 2 and 4, system microcontroller 208 is preferably configured
by the Product App to issue commands to power control unit 700, causing it to vary the
supply of electricity to one or more devices and/or circuits based at least in part on
instructions communicated from a smartphone. Where system microcontroller 208 includes
a perpetual clock calendar, or access administrator 200 includes perpetual clock calendar
204, or access administrator can determine clock information from a wireless or powerline
network, system microcontroller 208 is preferably configured by the Product App to issue
commands to a power control unit 700 based on a pre-configured schedule. In that way a
user could schedule the supply of electricity to one or more devices and/or circuits, the
commands being generated by system microcontroller 208 without needing a
communications link with smartphone 10.

                                                   40
[00137]      Referring to Fig. 4, system 400 is preferably configured to permit automatic
and/or manual selective variance of power to individual electrical devices and/or systems
by one or more of the smartphone user, service platform, and/or electricity industry
participant. For example, individual electrical devices and/or systems may be controlled by
a power control unit according to a command or schedule implemented through the
Product App resident on a user's smartphone. There may be times when it is necessary or
preferable to vary or interrupt the schedule due to a triggering event. A trigger may include,
but is not limited to, variation of a tariff or the receipt of a demand response command,
threshold, flag, notification, or data packet.
[00138]      In an example where the triggering event is a tariff change, either service
platform 500 or electricity industry participant 20 may issue a notification to network 600 of
a change in tariff. In response thereto, access administrator 200 and/or electrical
management unit 300 may issue appropriate commands to one or more power control
units 700 to vary power, shut off power, or where there is a programmed schedule, delay or
reset the schedule. For example, if the tariff unexpectedly will increase, service platform
500 will issue a notification to all networks 600 associated with service platform 500 of the
change in tariff. A recipient network 600 receives the notification at access administrator
200 via one of the aforementioned communication methods and proceeds to issue
commands to one or more power control units 700 to change the power to the electrical
device or system being controlled by the power control unit. Preferably, the power control
units are grouped into "essential" and "non-essential" units. Examples of essential units
include certain lighting systems and appliances such as refrigeration, medical and life
support systems. Examples of non-essential units include pool filtration systems and air
conditioning. Preferably, access administrator 200 will issue commands to power control
units designated as non-essential to vary or shut off power, or if the power control unit is
operating according to a schedule, delay or re-schedule.
[00139]      An example of rescheduling a power control unit is where a power control unit
700 controls power to a pool filtration system operating on a programmed schedule. The
receipt of a notification of a tariff change by access administrator 200 causes access
administrator 200 to send a command to the power control unit controlling the pool filtration
system to delay starting a filtration cycle until the tariff is changed to a lower tariff, or

                                               41
rescheduling a pool filtration cycle until a more favourable tariff condition exists. The
delaying or rescheduling of a power control unit may be applicable to other devices and
systems as desired, for example, air conditioning, heating, lighting, and/or water sprinkler
systems.
[00140]     The designation of "essential" and "non-essential" is preferably made via the
Product App according to the user's preferences. It will be appreciated that the Product
App may include default designations as appropriate, which may be changed by the user.
Alternatively, each power control unit may be pre-configured with a designation which may
be modifiable or permanent (i.e., not modifiable).
[00141]     System 400 is preferably configured so that a user controlling a network 600
may elect to include their associated system 600 as a participant for triggering event
notifications and responses.
[00142]     In an example of where the triggering event is a demand response, service
platform 500 and/or electricity participant 20 may issue the demand response to network
600 to vary or shut off power in a manner similar to that described above for a tariff
change. A demand response may be issued, for example, when power demand is
approaching a critical level, or when the power grid is being strained in a geographical area
as measured by power demand and power available. A demand response may be issued
according to predictive modelling, for example, if the weather is predicted to be extreme,
causing a spike in energy consumption. Upon receipt of a demand response, network 600
may operate in a manner similar to that described above for receipt of a notification of a
tariff change. System 400 may be configured so that in an emergency situation, a demand
response may be issued to override any designations in network 600, for example, shutting
off or reducing power to all devices or systems serviced within network 600.
[00143]     Referring now to Fig. 4A, a local power management network 600a is shown in
accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention. Network 600a is
similar to network 600 except that electricity management unit 300a is configured to accept
a demand response trigger from electricity industry participant 20 directly (e.g., without
service platform 500) via communication pathway 426a. Communication pathway 426a
could be by way of the internet, wireless, satellite, telephone or a direct line, as long as

                                                42
data can be exchanged between an electricity industry participant 20 and electricity
management unit 300a through a medium and in a format that the recipient can interpret
and use. In this situation, a user through the Product App using access administrator 200a
communicating through wireless peer-to-peer connection 402a or WLAN connection 406a
and WLAN connection 404a with access point 14, may configure a power control unit 700a
directly through power line communications or Zigbee wireless communications 422a, or
indirectly via a mesh network using power line communications or Zigbee wireless
communications 408a and power line communications or Zigbee wireless communications
424a, with the action to be taken by power control unit 700a in response to a demand
response trigger broadcast by the electricity industry participant through electricity
management unit 300a and over a power line communications network or Zigbee wireless
communications network to power control unit 700a. For example, access administrator
200a may be utilised to configure power control unit 700a as essential or non-essential, so
that when power control unit 700a receives a demand response trigger from electricity
management unit 300a, power control unit 700a will either react to the trigger if the power
control unit has been designated as non-essential, or ignore the demand response trigger if
the power control unit has been designated as essential.
[00144]      Referring now to Fig. 4B, a local power management network 600b is shown in
accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention. Network 600b is
similar to network 600a except that electricity management unit 300b is configured to
identify and selectively vary power to circuits to which electricity management unit 300b is
wired. In this arrangement, a power control unit is not needed for each electrical device or
system since electricity management unit 300b is configured to perform the functions of the
power control unit.
[00145]      Referring now to Fig. 4C, a system 400c for selectively reducing load across a
local power network 600c is shown in accordance with another preferred embodiment of
the present invention. System 400c is similar to system 400 except that, like network 600b
in Fig. 4B, network 600c includes an electricity management unit 300c which is preferably
configured to identify and selectively vary power to circuits to which electricity management
unit 300c is wired. Additionally, service platform 500c is preferably configured to send,
using cellular connection 41 Cc and/or an internet connection, an alert of a change in tariff

                                                43
or strain condition of a local portion of the power grid associated with local power
management network 600c to a personal controller 10 associated with local power
management network 600c. A user then has an option to use the personal controller to
send a command to access administrator 200c to vary power to an electrical device or
system through electricity management unit 300c in response to the alert. The command
sent to access administrator 200c may be to vary power to non-essential circuits
associated with electrical devices and/or systems designated as non-essential. It will be
appreciated that instead of electricity management unit 300c being used to vary power to
particular circuits, local power management network 600c may be configured with one or
more power control units similar to the embodiments illustrated in Figs. 4 and 4A and
described above. System 400c may also be used where electricity management unit 300c
has no ability to identify and selectively vary power to circuits, the user instead choosing to
manually reduce load by the turning power off to electrical devices, systems or circuits after
receiving a notification from service platform 500c.
[00146]      Continuing with reference to Fig. 4, in a preferred embodiment, power control
unit 700 is preferably configured with WLAN capabilities and operates as a client of access
point 14 instead of utilizing power line communication or Zigbee wireless communication
technologies. The Product App running on smartphone 10 preferably communicates with
power control unit 700 through either wireless peer-to-peer connection 402 with access
administrator 200 to WLAN connection 404 with access point 14, or through smartphone
10, and WLAN connection 406 with Wi-Fi network access point 14. It will be appreciated
that data exchange between electricity management unit 300 and power control unit 700
may be facilitated by access administrator 200 connected to Wi-Fi access point 14.
[00147]      The foregoing description is by way of example only, and may be varied
considerably without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example,
service platform 500 could be wholly or partly integrated inside market operator 18, a party
in electricity industry participant 20, or another third party. In another preferred
embodiment, the access administrator may be completely integrated into an electricity
management unit or other products. In such an embodiment, the smartphone may have a
resident Product App that performs substantially as described above, and be connected
with a cord to the mains power, for example, via the smartphone charging unit. As

                                                44
described above, the electricity management unit may include a processor which is
configured to identify individual power circuits and vary power to those circuits. Where the
electricity management unit is so configured, the use of one or more power control units is
optional. The electricity management unit may include a communications module
configured for wireless or wired communication with an electricity industry participant so as
to receive an event trigger directly from the electricity industry participant (e.g., not through
the personal controller or service platform).
[00148]     Fig. 5 shows an access administrator 800 in accordance with another preferred
embodiment of the present invention. Access administrator 800 provides an example of an
alternate configuration of the systems of access administrator 200. Access administrator
800 preferably includes Wi-Fi communications 802, Wi-Fi aerial 804, Bluetooth
communications 806, Bluetooth aerial 808, system microcontroller 810 with embedded
memory, perpetual clock calendar 812, electricity management unit communications 814,
electricity management unit communications aerial 816, power line coupler 818, power line
connection 820, and system power supply 822. In some preferred embodiments, it may be
preferable for system microcontroller 810 to support external memory in addition to, or
instead of, embedded memory. In some preferred embodiments, it may be preferable to
aggregate Wi-Fi communications 802 and Bluetooth communications 806 as a component,
SiP or SoC allowing for a single aerial. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in
the art that the system described above can be varied in many ways without departing from
the scope of the present invention.
[00149]     Aspects of the present invention may be used in a variety of environments. For
example only, the invention can be adapted for use with gas meters (e.g., natural gas) and
water meters, as well as electricity meters for use with home-generated electrical
apparatuses such as a PV solar system and/or wind turbine.
[00150]     Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art
from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is
intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true
scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

                                               45
What is claimed is:
1.      A device for linking a personal controller to an electricity management unit, the
personal controller having a processor, a user interface, and a wireless communications
transceiver, the electricity management unit being configured to at least measure power
flow, said device comprising:
      a wireless communications module operable for wireless communication with the
personal controller, said wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio
transceiver, said wireless communications module being configured to communicate with
the personal controller selectively using a non-peer-to-peer communication link and at least
one of two different peer-to-peer communications links;
      a local network communications module operable for communication with the
electricity management unit, said local network communications module being configured
to communicate with the electricity management unit selectively using a wired
communications mode and a wireless communications mode; and
      a microcontroller configured to access, through said local network communications
module, the electricity management unit based at least in part on instructions
communicated from the personal controller through said wireless communications module,
said microcontroller being configured to operate said wireless communications module in
more than one mode, said microcontroller being configured to operate said wireless
communications module in a first mode using one of the peer-to-peer communications
links, said microcontroller being configured to operate said wireless control module in a
second mode using the non-peer-to-peer communications link.
2.      The device of claim 1, wherein said wireless communications module includes a first
radio configured for peer-to-peer communication with the personal controller, and a second
radio configured for communication with a WLAN access point.

                                              46
3.      The device of either claim 1 or 2, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the electricity management unit using a
HomePlug communications protocol.
4.      The device of either claim 1 or 2, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the electricity management unit using an IEEE
1901 series communications standard.
5.      The device of either claim 1 or 2, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the electricity management unit using Zigbee.
6.      The device of either claim 1 or 2, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the electricity management unit using an IEEE
802.15 series communications standard.
7.      The device of any one of the above claims, wherein said microcontroller is
configured to communicate with the electricity management unit using a network
membership key to form a secure network between said device and the electricity
management unit.
8.      The device of any one of the above claims, wherein said wireless communications
control module is configured to communicate with the personal controller using Wi-Fi
Direct.
9.      The device of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said wireless communications control
module is configured to communicate with the personal controller using Bluetooth.
10.     The device of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said microcontroller is configured to
open a peer-to-peer wireless communications link with the personal controller by simulating
a Wi-Fi access point.
11.     The device of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said microcontroller is configured to
open a peer-to-peer wireless communication link with the personal controller using a
SoftAP.

                                               47
12.     The device of any one of the above claims, wherein said microcontroller is
configured to operate said wireless communications control module in the first and second
modes concurrently.
13.     The device of any one of the above claims, wherein said microcontroller is
configured to function as a network client device while operating in the second mode.
14.     The device of any one of the above claims, further comprising an interface
connection for physically connecting said device to a mains power line, said interface
connection being configured for plug and socket engagement with a mains power outlet.
15.     The device of any one of claims 1-13, further comprising an interface connection for
physically connecting said device to a mains power line, said interface connection including
a terminal block configured for wiring directly into the mains power line.
16.     The device of any one of the above claims, wherein said radio transceiver is
configured to selectively communicate with the personal controller using one of the peer-to
peer communication links and non-peer-to-peer communication links.
17.     The device of claim 16, wherein said radio transceiver is configure to selectively
communicate with the personal controller using Wi-Fi Direct and network Wi-Fi.
18.     The device of claim 16, further comprising a second radio transceiver, said second
radio transceiver being configured to communicate with the personal controller using a
different peer-to-peer communications link.
19.     The device of claim 18, wherein said second radio transceiver is configured to
communicate with the personal controller using Bluetooth.
20.     The device of claim 1, wherein said microcontroller is configured to use one of the
peer-to-peer communications links to establish the non-peer-to-peer communication link.
21.     The device of claim 1, wherein said microcontroller is configured to use one of a
peer-to-peer communications link or non-peer-to-peer communication link to configure the
local network communications module operable for communication with the electricity
management unit.

                                               48
22.     A system for dynamically reducing load across a power grid, the system comprising:
        a service platform including a processor and data storage means;
        a plurality of local power management networks, each local power management
network including an access administrator device and at least one power control unit, said
access administrator device having a wireless communications module configured to
communicate with a personal controller selectively using at least one peer-to-peer
communications standard and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local
network communications module configured to communicate with a smartmeter and at
least one of said power control units, said at least one power control unit having a
communications control module configured to receive communications from said access
administrator device to vary power from a mains power connection to an electrical device
or system, said wireless communications module being configure to communicate with said
service platform through a communications network.
23.     The system of claim 22, wherein said data storage means includes the Cloud.
24.     The system of claim 22, wherein said data storage means includes a database
server.
25.     The system of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said wireless communications
module is configured to communicate with the personal controller using Wi-Fi direct.
26.     The system of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said wireless communications
module is configured to communicate with the personal controller using Bluetooth.
27.     The system of any one of claims 22-26, wherein said wireless communications
module is configured to communicate with the personal controller concurrently using a
peer-to-peer communications standard and a non-peer-to-peer communications standard.
28.     The system of any one of claims 22-27, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using power line
communications.

                                                49
29.     The system of any one of claims 22-27, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using Zigbee.
30.     The device of any one of claims 22-27, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using an IEEE 802.15 series
communications standard.
31.     The system of any one of claims 22-27, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter selectively using power line
communications and Zigbee.
32.     The system of any one of claims 22-31, wherein said access administrator device is
configured to obtain data from the smartmeter and communicate the data to said service
platform over the internet.
33.     The system of any one of claims 22-32, wherein said service platform is configured
to calculate an average energy efficiency of a specific brand of electrical device based at
least in part on data collected from more than one of said local power management
networks.
34.     The system of any one of claims 22-33, wherein at least one of said power control
units has a designation so that a command sent from said access administrator to said
designated power control unit to vary electricity to an associated electrical device or system
will be ignored.
35.     The system of any one of claims 22-33, further comprising a plurality of power
control units, at least one of which is configured to ignore a command sent from said
service platform to vary electricity.
36.     A device for linking a personal controller to a smartmeter, the personal controller
having a processor, a user interface, and a wireless communications transceiver, the
smartmeter being configured to at least measure power flow, said device comprising:
      a wireless communications module operable for wireless communication with the
personal controller, said wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio
transceiver, said wireless communications module being configured to communicate with

                                               50
the personal controller selectively using at least one peer-to-peer communications standard
and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard;
      a local network communications module operable for communication with the
smartmeter, said local network communications module being configured to communicate
with the smartmeter selectively using a wired communications link and a wireless
communications link; and
      a microcontroller configured to access, through said local network communications
module, the smartmeter based at least in part on instructions communicated from the
personal controller through said wireless communications module.
37.    The device of claim 36, wherein radio transceiver is configured for peer-to-peer
communication with the personal controller, further comprising at least a second radio
configured for communication with a WLAN access point.
38.    The device of either claim 36 or 37, wherein said local network communications
control module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using a HomePlug
communications protocol.
39.    The device of either claim 36 or 37, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using an IEEE 1901 series
communications standard.
40.    The device of either claim 36 or 37, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using Zigbee.
41.    The device of either claim 36 or 37, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using an IEEE 802.15 series
communications standard.
42.    The device of any one of claims 36-41, wherein said microcontroller is configured to
communicate with the smartmeter using a network membership key to form a secure
network between said device and the electricity management unit.

                                               51
43.    The device of any one of claims 36-42, wherein said wireless communications
module is configured to communicate with the personal controller using Wi-Fi Direct.
44.    The device of any one of claims 36-42, wherein said wireless communications
module is configured to communicate with the personal controller using Bluetooth.
45.    The device of any one of claims 36-42, wherein said microcontroller is configured to
open a peer-to-peer wireless communications link with the personal controller by simulating
a Wi-Fi access point.
46.    The device of any one of claims 36-42, wherein said microcontroller is configured to
open a peer-to-peer wireless communication link with the personal controller using a
SoftAP.
47.    The device of any one of claims 36-46, further comprising an interface connection
for physically connecting said device to a mains power line, said interface connection being
configured for plug and socket engagement with a mains power outlet.
48.    The device of any one of claims 36-46, further comprising an interface connection
for physically connecting said device to a mains power line, said interface connection
including a terminal block configured for wiring directly into the mains power line.
49.    The device of any one of claims 36-48, wherein said radio transceiver is configured
to selectively communicate with the personal controller using a non-peer-to-peer
communication link and one of at least two different the peer-to-peer communication links.
50.    The device of claim 49, wherein said microcontroller is configured to use one of the
peer-to-peer communications links to establish the non-peer-to-peer communication link.
51.    The device of claim 36, wherein said radio transceiver is configured to selectively
communicate with the personal controller using Wi-Fi Direct and network Wi-Fi.
52.    The device of claim 36, wherein said radio transceiver is configured for peer-to-peer
communication with the personal controller, further comprising at least a second radio
transceiver, said second radio transceiver being configured to communicate with the

                                               52
personal controller using a different peer-to-peer communications link relative to a peer-to
peer communications link used by said radio transceiver.
53.     The device of claim 52, wherein said second radio transceiver is configured to
communicate with the personal controller using Bluetooth.
54.     A method for accessing, with a personal controller, an electricity management unit to
at least measure power flow, the method comprising:
        receiving, at an access administrator device at or near an electricity management
unit, a command from the personal controller to access the electricity management unit,
the command being received by the access administrator device using a first
communications standard;
        sending a command, with the access administrator device, to the electricity
management unit to provide power measurement data to the access administrator device,
the command being sent by the access administrator device using a second
communications standard different from the first communications standard; and
        relaying, with the access administrator device, the requested data from the
electricity management unit to the personal controller.
55.     The method of claim 54, wherein the first communications standard is a peer-to-peer
communications standard.
56.     The method of claim 54, wherein the first communications standard is Wi-Fi Direct.
57.     The method of claim 54, wherein the first communications standard is network Wi
Fi.
58.     The method of claim 54, wherein the first communications standard is Bluetooth.
59.     The method of any one of claims 54-58, wherein the second communications
standard is a power line communications standard.
60.     The method of any one of claims 54-58, wherein the second communications
standard includes HomePlug.

                                               53
61.     The method of any one of claims 54-58, wherein the second communications
standard includes Zigbee.
62.     The method of any one of claims 54-58, wherein the second communications
standard includes an IEEE 802.15 series communications standard.
63.     The method of any one of claims 54-62, further comprising identifying a device or
system whose power flow is being measured by the electricity management unit, and
sending a command, with the access administrator device, to the electricity management
unit to vary the power flow to the device or system identified.
64.     The method of claim 54, further comprising opening a peer-to-peer wireless
communications link between the access administrator device and the personal controller
prior to receiving the command to access the electricity management unit.
65.     The method of claim 55, wherein the opening of the peer-to-peer wireless
communications link includes simulating a Wi-Fi access point.
66.     A local power management network for dynamically reducing a portion of a load
across a power grid, the network comprising:
        at least one power control unit; and
        an access administrator device, said access administrator device having a wireless
communications module, said wireless communications module being configured to
communicate with a smartphone selectively using at least one peer-to-peer
communications standard and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local
network communications module configured to communicate with a smartmeter and at
least one of said power control units, said at least one power control unit having a
communications module configured to receive communications from said access
administrator device to vary power from a mains power channel to an electrical device or
system based at least in part on commands communicated over a local communications
network.
67.     A local power management network for dynamically reducing a portion of a load
across a power grid, the network comprising:

                                               54
        a smartmeter having a processor configured to individually vary power to at least
two different circuits; and
        an access administrator device having a wireless communications module
configured to communicate with a smartphone selectively using at least one peer-to-peer
communications standard and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local
network communications module configured to communicate with said smartmeter, said
smartmeter having a communications module configured to receive communications from
said access administrator device to vary power from a mains power channel to a circuit
identified by said access administrator device for which power is to be varied.
68.     A system for selectively reducing load across a power grid, the system comprising:
        a service platform including a processor and data storage means;
        a plurality of local power management networks, each local power management
network including an access administrator device and a smartmeter, said access
administrator device having a wireless communications module configured to communicate
with a personal controller selectively using at least one peer-to-peer communications
standard and a non-peer-to-peer communication standard, and a local network
communications module configured to communicate with said smartmeter, said smartmeter
having a communications module configured to receive communications from said access
administrator device and provide said access administrator with an energy measurement
metric as measured by said smartmeter , said processor of said service platform being
configured to receive data regarding a tariff change or energy strain on a portion of a power
grid associated with at least one of said local power management networks, said processor
of said service platform being configured to issue an alert over a communications network
to a personal controller associated with an access administrator of one of said local power
management networks affected by the tariff change or energy strain on the power grid.
69.     The system of either claim 66 or 67, wherein said wireless communications control
module is configured to communicate with the smartphone using Wi-Fi direct.
70.     The system of either claim 66 or 67, wherein said wireless communications control
module is configured to communicate with the smartphone using Bluetooth.

                                               55
71.     The system of either claim 66 or 67, wherein said wireless communications control
module is configured to communicate with the smartphone concurrently using the peer-to
peer communications standard and the non-peer-to-peer communications standard.
72.     The system of any one of claims 66-68, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using power line
communications.
73.     The system of any one of claims 66-68, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using Zigbee.
74.     The system of any one of claims 66-68, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using an IEEE 802.15 series
communications standard.
75.     The system of any one of claims 66-68, wherein said local network communications
control module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter selectively using power
line communications and Zigbee.
76.     The system of claim 68, wherein said access administrator device is configured to
communicate the energy measurement metrics to said service platform over the internet.
77.     The system of claim 68, wherein said service platform is configured to calculate an
average energy efficiency of a specific brand of electrical device based at least in part on
data collected from more than one of said local power management networks.
78.     The system of claim 66, wherein at least one of said power control units has a
designation so that a command sent from said access administrator to said designated
power control unit to vary electricity to an associated electrical device or system will be
ignored.
79.     The system of claim 66, further comprising a plurality of power control units, at least
one of which is configured to ignore a command sent from said service platform to vary
electricity.
80.     The system of claim 68, wherein said data storage means includes the Cloud.

                                                56
81.     The system of claim 68, wherein said data storage means includes a database
server.
82.     A device for linking a personal controller to a smartmeter, the personal controller
having a processor, a user interface, and a wireless communications transceiver, the
smartmeter being configured to at least measure power flow, said device comprising:
      a wireless communications module operable for wireless communication with the
personal controller, said wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio
transceiver, said wireless communications module being configured to communicate
wirelessly with the personal controller in at least two different modes, one of the modes
being a peer-to-peer communications mode, another of the modes being a non-peer-to
peer communication mode;
      a local network communications module operable for communication with the
smartmeter over a mains power line, said local network communications module including
a power line coupler;
      an interface connection for physically connecting said power line coupler to the mains
power line, said interface connection being configured for plug and socket engagement
with a mains power outlet; and
      a microcontroller configured to access, through said local network communications
module, the smartmeter based at least in part on instructions communicated from the
personal controller through said wireless communications module.
83.     The device of claim 82, wherein said device is powered by the mains power through
said interface connection.
84.     The device of either claim 82 or 83, wherein said local communications module is
configured to communicate with the smartmeter using Zigbee.
85.     The device of either claim 82 or 83, wherein said local network communications
module is configured to communicate with the smartmeter using an IEEE 802.15 series
communications standard.

                                                57
86.    A device for linking a personal controller to a smartmeter, the personal controller
having a processor, a user interface, and a wireless communications transceiver, the
smartmeter being configured to at least measure power flow, said device comprising:
      a wireless communications module operable for wireless communication with the
personal controller, said wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio
transceiver, said wireless communications module being configured to communicate
wirelessly with the personal controller in at least two different modes, one of the modes
being a peer-to-peer communications mode, another of the modes being a non-peer-to
peer communication mode;
      a local network communications module operable for communication with the
smartmeter, said local network communications module being configured to communicate
with the smartmeter using Zigbee;
      an interface connection for physically connecting said device to a mains power line,
said interface connection being configured for plug and socket engagement with a mains
power outlet; and
      a microcontroller configured to access, through said local network communications
module, the smartmeter based at least in part on instructions communicated from the
personal controller through said wireless communications module.
87.    The device of claim 86, wherein said local network communications module is
configured to communicate with the smartmeter using only Zigbee.
88.    A device for linking a personal controller to a smartmeter, the personal controller
having a processor, a user interface, and a wireless communications transceiver, the
smartmeter being configured to at least measure power flow, said device comprising:
      a wireless communications module operable for wireless communication with the
personal controller, said wireless communications module including an aerial and a radio
transceiver, said wireless communications module being configured to communicate
wirelessly with the personal controller in at least two different modes, one of the modes

                                              58
being a peer-to-peer communications mode, another of the modes being a non-peer-to
peer communication mode;
      a local network communications module operable for communication with the
smartmeter, said local network communications module being configured to communicate
with the smartmeter using an IEEE 802.15 series communications standard;
      an interface connection for physically connecting said device to a mains power line,
said interface connection being configured for plug and socket engagement with a mains
power outlet; and
      a microcontroller configured to access, through said local network communications
module, the smartmeter based at least in part on instructions communicated from the
personal controller through said wireless communications module.
89.    The device of claim 88, wherein said local network communications module is
configured to communicate with the smartmeter using only an IEEE 802.15 series
communications standard.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
