Abstract
Embodiments make use of a physical effect observed by the present applicants that externally
generated noise can be coupled into a fluid carrying structure such as a pipe, well, or borehole
so as to artificially acoustically "illuminate" the pipe, well, or borehole, and allow fluid flow
in the structure or structural integrity to be determined. In particular, in embodiments of the
invention externally generated noise is coupled into the structure being monitored at the same
time as data logging required to undertake the monitoring is performed. This has three
effects, in that firstly the externally generated sound is coupled into the structure so as to
"illuminate" acoustically the structure to allow data to be collected from which fluid flow
may be determined, and secondly the amount of data that need be collected is reduced, as
there is no need to log data when the structure is not being illuminated. Thirdly, there are
signal processing advantages in having the data logging being undertaken only when the
acoustic illumination occurs.

WO 20 14/068334                  PCT/GB2013/052875
                            8/13
                  CC
                                               C)
                    C/C)
              cC~
                         'r

 DocumentI - l1/2017
                           Acoustic Illumination for Flow-Monitoring
 The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No. 2013340502
 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
 Technical Field
 The present invention relates to a method and system which makes use of active acoustic
 illumination of fluid carrying structures such as boreholes, wells, pipes, and the like to allow
for fluid flow monitoring or structural integrity monitoring to occur.
Background to the Invention and Prior Art
Optical fibre based distributed acoustic sensors (DAS) are known in the art. One high
performance example is the iDASTM, available from Silixa Limited, of Elstree, UK. Further
details of the operation of a suitable DAS are given in W02010/0136809 and W02010/1368 10,
which also disclose that distributed acoustic sensors may be used for in-well applications, in
that the acoustic noise profile can be used to measure the flow by noise logging at every
location along the well. In addition, the noise spectrum can be used to identify the phase of the
fluid.
However, one problem that arises in the use of DAS for flow monitoring is in fluid carrying
structures where the flow is quiet, for example where the flow is substantially laminar, or with
few eddies or other turbulent regions that cause noise. In such a case acoustic monitoring of
the fluid carrying structure is unable to determine the fluid flow, or the fluid phase, due to the
lack of input information into the sensor. Moreover, in fluid carrying structures where the flow
is sometimes noisy and sometimes quiet, the monitoring of such structures with a DAS can
result in large amounts of data, much of which is of little use when no noise is present.
Examples of flow carrying structures that are sometimes too quiet for conventional DAS
monitoring are oil wells with low flow rates, and shale oil or shale gas wells. Even horizontal
sections of piping can have quiet flow.
Summary of the Invention

WO 2014/068334                                                         PCT/GB2013/052875
 Embodiments of the present invention address the above problem by making use of a
 physical effect observed by the present applicants that noise, such as externally
 generated or internally generated noise, can be coupled into a fluid carrying structure
 such as a pipe, well, or borehole so as to artificially acoustically "illuminate" the pipe,
 well, or borehole, and allow fluid flow in the structure to be determined. In particular,
 in some embodiments of the invention acoustic energy is coupled into the structure
 being monitored at the same time as data logging required to undertake the monitoring
 is performed. The acoustic energy may have been deliberately created for the purpose
 of coupling into the structure, or it may have been created for another purpose, for
 example for seismic surveying, and is then also used for coupling into the structure by
 way of convenience.. Alternatively, the acoustic energy may be incident noise that has
 not been specifically created for any purpose.
 The coupling of acoustic energy into the structure has three effects, in that firstly the
 acoustic energy is coupled into the structure so as to "illuminate" acoustically the
 structure to allow data to be collected from which fluid flow or structural integrity may
 be determined, and secondly the amount of data that need be collected is reduced, as
 there is no need to log data when the structure is not being illuminated. Thirdly, there
 are signal processing advantages in having the data logging being undertaken only
 when the acoustic illumination occurs, in that any data averaging that needs to be
 performed is taken only over the (usually short) period of illumination. This can
 increase the signal to noise ratio considerably.
 In view of the above, from one aspect there is provided a method of monitoring a fluid
 flow carrying structure. The method comprises determining the generation of an
 acoustic wave; and at the same time as the generated acoustic wave is incident on the
 structure, sensing, using a distributed acoustic sensor, acoustic energy coupled into the
 fluid-flow carrying structure from the incident generated acoustic wave. Acoustic data
 corresponding to the sensed acoustic energy may then be stored, at least temporarily.
 With the above, a "quiet" flow carrying structure may be deliberately illuminated by the
 generated acoustic wave, and acoustic data resulting from the illumination then sensed
 and stored for later use. By "determining", we simply mean noting that an acoustic
 wave is present that is capable of acoustically illuminating the structure. The acoustic
                                              2

wave may be deliberately created, either internally or externally to the structure, for the
illumination purposes, or may be created for some other use, such as seismic surveying, its use
for acoustic illumination then being a secondary beneficial effect. Alternatively, the acoustic
illumination may be non-determinative, such as naturally, randomly or pseudo-randomly
occurring incident noise from some other source. In one embodiment the method calculates
the speed of sound in one or more parts of the structure or in the fluid from the acoustic data.
As such, embodiments of the invention may be used for both fluid phase determination, as
well as structural integrity checking.
Thus, in accordance with the present invention, there is provided a method of monitoring a
fluid-flow carrying structure, the method comprising: obtaining acoustic data corresponding to
acoustic energy sensed using an optical fibre distributed acoustic sensor at the same time as an
acoustic wave is incident on the structure, the acoustic energy being coupled into the fluid
flow carrying structure from the incident acoustic wave; and calculating a speed of sound in a
fluid flow within the structure from the acoustic data, the calculating comprising: plotting the
acoustic data as a two dimensional space-time image; applying a two dimensional Fourier
transform to the two-dimensional space-time image to obtain a transformed image; in the
transformed image, identifying gradients in the transformed image, the identified gradients
corresponding to the respective speeds of sound, or at least a property or derivative thereof, of
the coupled acoustic energy in the fluid flow within the structure in opposite directions along
the fluid flow carrying structure; and calculating the fluid flow in dependence on a difference
between the respective speeds of sound in the fluid flow in the opposite directions..
Using the stored or sensed data to determine properties such as speed of fluid flow in the
structure from the acoustic data enables embodiments to be suited for fluid flow monitoring
purposes.
In one embodiment a processor is provided that is arranged to plot the acoustic data as a two
dimensional space-time image. The processor then applies a two dimensional Fourier
transform to the space-time image to obtain a transformed image. Gradients may then be
identified in the transformed image, the identified gradients corresponding to the speed of
sound, or at least a property or derivative thereof, of the coupled acoustic energy.
In one embodiment the identified gradients indicate the speed of sound in opposite directions
along the flow carrying structure. This allows the processor to calculate the fluid flow in
                                                3

 UM,lnaicn MeNRoribBDCC\AFIS417 dccA18/207
                                46
 dependence on a difference between the respective speeds of sound in the fluid inthe opposite
 directions.
 In accordance with the present invention, there is also provided a method of monitoring a
 fluid-flow carrying structure, the method comprising: determining a generation of an acoustic
 wave; at the same time as the generated acoustic wave is incident on the structure, sensing,
 using an optical fibre distributed acoustic sensor, acoustic energy coupled into the fluid-flow
 carrying structure from the incident generated acoustic wave; and storing acoustic data
 corresponding to the sensed acoustic energy; wherein the generation of the acoustic wave and
 the sensing of the acoustic energy and the storing of acoustic data are synchronised, and
 wherein the acoustic data is not stored substantially during time periods between the periods
 when the acoustic wave is incident on and propagating through the structure.
 In one embodiment the acoustic wave is generated remote from the structure, whereas in
 another embodiment the acoustic wave may be generated next to or within the structure.
In one embodiment the acoustic wave is generated by a seismic source, wherein preferably the
seismic source is a source selected from the group comprising: airguns, vibroseis, explosives,
or piezo transducers.
In another embodiment the acoustic wave is generated by an internal source to the structure. In
particular the acoustic source may be a mechanism driven by the fluid flow.
The acoustic wave may take many forms, and may be for example one of a pseudo random
sequence or an impulse.
Ensuring that acoustic data is not stored substantially during time periods between the periods
when the acoustic wave is incident on and propagating through the structure. This reduces the
amount of data that is generated and stored by the DAS.
In one embodiment the generation of the acoustic wave and the sensing and storing of acoustic
data are synchronised. In particular, the generation of the acoustic wave may be triggered, and
then the DAS may wait for any propagation delay until the generated wave is incident on the
structure before sensing the coupled acoustic energy and storing corresponding acoustic data.
                                                4

H-11-1m novenWRPdbhDC05Ans,[9%_1d4=2017a
In the above embodiment the DAS preferably ceases the storing of acoustic data once the
 acoustic wave has propagated along the structure.
 In a particularly preferred embodiment the distributed acoustic sensor is an optical fibre based
sensor. Moreover, preferably the structure is a pipe, well, or borehole.
From a further aspect the present invention also provides a system for monitoring a fluid-flow
carrying structure, the system comprising: a processor arranged in use to: obtain acoustic data
corresponding to acoustic energy sensed using an optical fiber distributed acoustic sensor at
the same time as an acoustic wave is incident on the structure, the acoustic energy being
coupled into the fluid-flow carrying structure from the incident acoustic wave; and calculate a
speed of sound in a fluid flow within the structure from the acoustic data, the calculating
comprising: plotting the acoustic data as a two dimensional space-time image; applying a two
dimensional Fourier transform to the two dimensional space-time image to obtain a
transformed image; in the transformed image, identifying gradients in the transformed image,
the identified gradients corresponding to the respective speeds of sound, or at least a property
or derivative thereof, of the coupled acoustic energy in the fluid flow within the structure in
opposite directions along the fluid flow carrying structure; and calculating the fluid flow in
dependence on a difference between the respective speeds of sound in the fluid flow in the
opposite directions.
From a further aspect the present invention also provides a system for monitoring a fluid-flow
carrying structure, the system comprising: an acoustic wave generator for generating an
acoustic wave; and an optical fibre distributed acoustic sensor (DAS) for sensing, at the same
time as the generated acoustic wave is incident on the structure, acoustic energy coupled into
the fluid-flow carrying structure from the incident generated acoustic wave and for storing
acoustic data corresponding to the sensed acoustic energy; wherein the acoustic wave
generator and the DAS are synchronised, and wherein the acoustic data is not stored by the
DAS substantially during time periods between the periods when the acoustic wave is incident
on and propagating through the structure.
                                              4A

WO 2014/068334                                                         PCT/GB2013/052875
 In another aspect the present invention also provides a fluid-flow carrying structure
 comprising an elongate fluid carrying channel through which fluid may flow; and an
 acoustic transmission mechanism arranged in use to couple incident acoustic energy
 into the fluid flow carrying structure. In this aspect the fluid flow carrying structure
 may be specially adapted to allow illuminating acoustic energy incident from the
 outside to be coupled therein, thereby enhancing the acoustic illumination effect of the
 present invention.
 In one embodiment the acoustic transmission mechanism comprises a drum structure
 having a first surface and a second surface and an acoustic connection mechanism to
 conduct acoustic energy incident on the first surface to the second surface. The first
 surface is reactive to incident acoustic waves and vibrates when such waves are incident
 thereon. The acoustic vibrations are passed by the acoustic connection mechanism (such
 as one or more linking arms or the like) to the second surface, which is arranged to
 radiate the acoustic energy outwards, into the structure, and thereby couple the energy
 into the structure.
 In another embodiment the acoustic transmission mechanism comprises an acoustic
 transmission rod extending through at least one part of the structure for transmitting
 acoustic energy through the at least one part. In this case incident acoustic vibrations
 are passed by the rod into the structure, and thereby coupled into the structure.
 In some embodiments the structure is a pipe, well, or borehole, and particularly an oil or
 gas well.
 Further features and aspects of the invention will be apparent from the appended claims.
 Brief Description of the Drawings
 Further features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
 following description of an embodiment thereof, presented by way of example only,
 and by reference to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like parts,
 and wherein:
                                              5

WO 2014/068334                                                       PCT/GB2013/052875
  Figure 1 is a diagram illustrating an example DAS deployment of the prior art;
  Figure 2 is a drawing of an example space-time plot of the data collected by a DAS in a
  deployment like that of Figure 1;
  Figure 3 is a drawing of a 2D Fourier transform (kow plot) of the space-time plot of
  Figure 2;
  Figure 4 is a graph showing upwards and downwards speed of sounds in a pipe, (top)
 together with calculated        Doppler shifts (bottom) that provide       fluid velocity
 measurements;
 Figures 5 to 7 are drawings of example kco plots taken at different times in the same
 well subject to acoustic illumination (which occurs in Figure 6);
 Figures 8 to 10 are diagrams illustrating how various noise sources may be provided in
 embodiments of the invention;
 Figure 11 is a flow diagram illustrating the sequence of operations in embodiments of
 the invention;
 Figure 12 is a drawing illustrating possible modifications to be made to casing of a well
 to allow the well to be more acoustically coupled to the surroundings;
 Figure 13 is a drawing illustrating one of the modifications of Figure 12 in more detail;
 and
 Figure 14 is a drawing illustrating another of the modifications of Figure 12 in more
 detail.
 Description of the Embodiments
 Overview of Embodiments
 The success of DAS-based fluid flow measurements depends on the presence of audio
 frequency and sub-audio frequency noise within the flow. Quiet flows have been seen
 not to produce useful DAS generated data, such as, for example, k-omega (k-co) data.
  Ambient noise from the ground surrounding borcholes can 'creep in' to pipes to
 illuminate them acoustically, but naturally generated ambient levels are usually much
 too low to be detectable by a DAS.         To solve this problem embodiments of the
 invention combine a sound source in synchronization with monitoring using a DAS, so
 that the sound source acoustically illuminates the interior of the borehole, and allows
 the DAS to log data that can be used to determine the fluid flow.
                                              6

WO 2014/068334                                                           PCT/GB2013/052875
  Determination of Fluid Flow
  Figure 1 illustrates a typical DAS deployment in an oil well. The well 12 extends
  through rock strata as shown, and a fibre optic cable 14 is provided running along the
  length of the well, in this case substantially parallel thereto. In other embodiments the
  cable may extend along the well in a different manner, for example wrapped around
  elements of the well. In this respect, all that is important is that there is a known
  relationship between the different parts of the cable and the different parts of the well.
  The fibre optic cable 14 is connected to a distributed acoustic sensor (DAS), such as the
  Silixa Ltd IDASTM, referenced previously. The DAS is able to record sound incident on
  the cable at between im and 5m resolution along the whole length of the cable, at
 frequencies up to around 100kHz. Hence, monitoring of the well with the DAS results
 in a large amount of data, that may be represented by a two dimensional space-time
 plot, an example of which is shown in Figure 2. Here, the horizontal axis shows
 "depth", or distance along the cable, and the left hand vertical axis shows lime. The
 right hand vertical axis shows a colour chart, with different colours representing sound
 of different intensity. Hence, the 2D space time plot provides a visual record of where
 on the cable sound was heard, and at what measurement time.
 In more detail, the DAS system can measure the phase of the acoustic signal coherently
 along the fibre optic cable. Therefore, it is possible to use a variety of methods to
 identify the presence of propagating acoustic waves. In one such method, described
 solely by way of non-limiting example. digital signal processing can transform the time
 and linear space (along the well) into a diagram showing frequency (0o) and
 wavenumber (k) in k-o space. A frequency independent speed of sound propagation
 along the well will show up as a line in k-ro space. Figure 2 shows the time and space
 signal and Figure 3 shows the corresponding k-ro space. Using the data in Figure 3. a
 good fit for the speed of sound can be calculated, by determining the gradient of the
 diagonal lines. The frequency band over which the speed of sound can be determined is
 more than sufficient for compositional and flow characterization. With the DAS system
 the speed of sound can be evaluated over a large section of the well and, therefore,
 measure the distributed variations of the flow composition and characteristics along the
                                               7

WO 2014/068334                                                          PCT/GB2013/052875
 well. The technique is particularly powerful for determining the composition of the
 flow - for example, gas has a speed of sound of around 600m/s whereas water has a
 speed of sounds around 1500m/s.
 Using such k-o analysis the speed of sound can also be determined throughout the
 entire length of the well.. Importantly, each of the two diagonal lines shown in the k-o
 space of Figure 3 corresponds to the speed of sound either travelling up or down the
 well. These two lines can be analysed to reveal the Doppler-shifted sound speeds for
 upward and downward propagating sound within the fluid of interest. Figure 4 shows
 the distributed flow determined in a gas injector based on Doppler shift measurements
 for a 30 s sampling. The determined flow speed varies with depth in the well
 corresponding to the change in hydrostatic pressure for a section of tubing with a
 uniform inner dimension and a gradually sloped well trajectory. In total the
 instantaneous and locally determined flow is roughly within +/- 0.3 m/s (that for this
 well is 10%) of the actual flow speed. The match to reference measurements is within
 the uncertainties of an instantaneous measurement, the fluid property and the
 distribution of the pressure drop within the well.
 In further detail, it is possible to estimate the speed of a given flow by monitoring the
 speeds of sound within that flow. In this analysis, it is assumed that the flow direction
 is coincident with the array layout (e.g. the direction of arrival for acoustic signals is
 known to be 0 or 180 degrees). The main principle used is that any sound contained
 within the flow reaches each consecutive sensor with a certain delay. Knowledge of the
 spatial sampling (i.e. the distribution of the cable along the well) can be used to
 calculate speed of sound by taking the ratio of average inter-sensor time difference of
 arTival and the average spatial distance between sensors. This operation can be easily
 done in the frequency domain. To perform this operation, in one embodiment one
 constructs a space-time plot of the signal across a neighbourhood of sensors. The 2D
 Fourier Transform of information this will give a wavenumber-frequency (k-ro) plot.
 If the speed of sound is constant across all frequencies (i.e. there is no dispersion) then
 each frequency (o) of a signal will correspond to a certain wavenumber (k) on the k-0o
 plot. Thus ideally a space-time signal will be mapped into a single straight line on the k
 co plot. From the wave equation we know that kc = w, where c is the speed of sound. So
                                               8

WO 2014/068334                                                        PCT/GB2013/052875
  estimating the slope of the line of highest energy on the k-o plot will give us the speed
  of sound in the medium.
 Since the waveguide can sustain propagation both along and against the direction of
 flow, the k-o plot can show two slopes for each mode of propagation: one positive and
 one negative. As the slope of each of these lines indicates the sound speed in each
 direction, the Doppler method can be used to derive the speed of sound from the 2D
 FFT according to the well-known method of analysis below.
 C+= c + v [speed of sound along the flow]
 c- = c - v [speed of sound against the flow]
 c+ and c- are found as slopes on a k-ro plot. Combination of the two equations above
 gives the flow speed EvI) as v = (c+ - c- )/2.
 Please note that whilst the above description makes use of processing using k-rn plots,
 in other embodiments different processing may be undertaken to achieve the same
 results, and not all embodiments of the invention are required to use the k-rn techniques
 described.
 Illumination using Noise Sources
 As noted above, embodiments of the invention are directed at determining fluid flow of
 quiet wells, by using an acoustic source to "illuminate" the well and allow the DAS to
 collect data from which the fluid flow can then be found. It is therefore necessary to
 consider the physical mechanism of how acoustic energy can be coupled into a fluid
 carrying structure such as a pipe, well, or borehole.
 Waveguides are systems which exhibit a very high propensity to direct energy along
 particular pathways. Pipes are one-dimensional acoustic waveguides, the acoustic
 characteristics of which have been well-analysed within the classical acoustics
 literature. As a result of these waveguide properties, acoustic sources external to pipes
 can be used to illuminate acoustically the internal volumes of those pipes even when the
 source of interest is external to the pipe. In one embodiment of the present invention, a
 source in the vicinity of the pipe, such as a vibroseis or dropped weight, will drive an
                                               9

WO 2014/068334                                                       PCT/GB2013/052875
  acoustic signal into the ground. As the signal radiates through the ground and
 encounters the pipe, acoustic energy will tend to be coupled into the pipe and be
 redirected along the pipe primary dimension. An acoustic sensor array mounted within
 or along the pipe coincident with the pipe principal dimension can be used to interpret
 the speed of sound within the pipe volume and wall (and, if present, the outer annulus).
 Regardless of the relative phase of different acoustic waves as they enter the pipe, the
 speeds of sound in both the forward and reverse directions of propagation can be
 determined, and hence flow speed can be observed. One aspect is that the energy
 entering the pipe should preferably be below the cutoff frequency for the waveguide,
 else energy will not propagate as a plane wave and wave speed determination will be
 increased in complexity.
 Potential Noise Sources
 Many different noise sources may be used in embodiments of the invention, as shown
 in Figures 8 to 10. For example, seismic sources such as seismic source 90 remote from
 the well, as shown in Figure 8, or next to or in the well, as shown in Figure 9, may be
 used. 1. Such seismic sources (90, 100) may be airguns, vibroseis, explosives, or piezo
 transducers either placed outside the well or in the well.
 In addition, passive sources powered by the flow, for example a clapper or a spinner
 110 with a clicking mechanism attached may be used, as shown in Figure 10.
 Additionally, in further embodiments active sources powered by power harvesting
 techniques may be used. An example is that the flow or vibrations in the well may be
 used to generate power which is then used to power a device (for example a pulsing
 piezo).
 In further embodiments pump noise may be used, or, for offshore wells, the noise from
 boats or ships located near the base well or pipe may be used. In addition, pressure
 waves from opening and closing valves within a well or pipe may be used, in that the
 opening and closing, if performed suddenly enough, can generate an acoustic pressure
 wave that travels along a pipe or well of which the valves form a part.
                                             10

WO 2014/068334                                                       PCT/GB2013/052875
 Moreover, in some embodiments acoustic sources can distributed along the well,
 borehole, or pipe. For example, the distribution may be regular, in that the sources are
 evenly spaced along sections of the well, borehole, or pipe, or the distribution may
 follow a mathematical function. For example, the distribution might be logarithmically
 spaced along one or more sections of a pipe. In other embodiments, acoustic sources
 might be randomly or pseudo-randomly spaced along the pipe. Moreover, in further
 embodiments different sections of pipe may have a different distribution of acoustic
 sources therein.
 With respect to the precise noise signal that may be used, the use of random or pseudo
 random vibroseis-generated signals in a zero-offset arrangement tandem with a flowing
 well monitored by a DAS should allow for sufficient averaging to yield useful flow data
 even in nearly silent wells. Noise generated within wells could also be used for this
 type of illumination.
 In practice, this would involve bringing a vibroseis up to a well, and driving it with a
 pseudo-random signal for a white (maybe a few minutes) while the DAS acquires data.
 This could also be done with other excitations (single pulses, chirps) but pseudo
 random is practically and theoretically the most robust method.
 Method of operation
 Figure 11 illustrates the overall operation of the embodiments in Figures 8 to 10. At
 step 12.2 the acoustic illuminator (i.e. the sound source, whether seismic or otherwise)
 is operated. If the sound source is some (known) distance away then it is necessary to
 wait for the illumination acoustic wave to propagate to the site of the well, pipe, or
 borehole, as shown at step 12.4. However, if the sound source is local, then it is not
 necessary to wait for this propagation period.
 At the same time as (or just before) the acoustic wave is incident on the well, pipe, or
 borehole, the DAS system 10 is activated to begin logging space-time acoustic data, at
 step 12.6. Thus, the DAS begins to record acoustic data representative of the incident
 acoustic wave being coupled into the fluid carrying structure. Once the acoustic energy
 has been coupled into the structure and propagated there along, the data logging can
                                              11

WO 2014/068334                                                        PCT/GB2013/052875
 then stop. Hence, it becomes necessary to log data for only a short period of time during
 the actual illumination by the acoustic source.
 Once the space time data has been obtained, at steps 12.8 and 12.10 the same steps as
 described above to calculate the speed of sound in the flowing medium, and then the
 actual flow speed itself are performed. These steps may be performed substantially in
 real time immediately after the data has been captured, or as a post-processing step
 some time later.
 One benefit to using active acoustic illumination in fluid flow metering in boreholes is
 the ability to synchronize the flow measurement with the acoustic source firing. This
 can greatly increase the signal to noise ratio of results by allowing averaging to be
 calculated using only data known to contain useful acoustic signal. Quiet periods
 outside of the time when an acoustic illumination signal is present are not recorded and
 hence do not contribute to the averaged signal. This method also allows for a significant
 reduction in the amount of data that needs to be collected since the period of acoustic
 illumination represents only a fraction of the recording time when compared to
 continuous data logging.
 For this to be done effectively it is necessary to synchronize the acoustic source
 generation with the recording made by the DAS. In embodiments of the invention this
 can be done in two ways. The first method uses an accurately timed trigger signal to
 initiate the acoustic source and the DAS data recording at the same time. Depending on
 the position of the acoustic source used to provide the illumination relative to the
 borehole, delays can be built into the recording start time to allow for the travel time of
 the acoustic waves to the borehole or a specific region of the borehole. For each source
 firing a short recording is made and the flow speed calculated, in between source firings
 data does not need to be collected. The second method fires the source at regular
 intervals synchronized to an accurate clock signal such as GPS time. The DAS, which
 must also be synchronized to the same clock, records at the same intervals or offset by a
 certain amount of time to allow for travel time of the acoustic illumination source signal
 Results
                                              12

WO 2014/068334                                                       PCT/GB2013/052875
  Example results provided by an embodiment of the invention are shown in Figures 5 to
  7, which show k-ro plots for a number of discrete times during an experiment.      In this
  experiment, an otherwise quiet pipe with fluid flowing therein pipe was struck with a
  hammer to provide an acoustic impulse. When k-rn plots are made in the absence of
  any acoustic illumination (as shown in Figures 5, and 7), the speed of sound cannot be
  seen, However, when k-o plots are made during time periods coincident with the
  impulse (corresponding to Figure 6), the speeds of sound corresponding to the various
 media within the pipe cross-section can be seen. As described above, these speeds of
  sound can be used to derive (1) the flow speed (2) information concerning the nature of
 the fluid and (3) well integrity data.
 As noted, Figures 5 to 7 show k-ro results are shown for a cement-lined pipe with a
 dense acoustic sensor array embedded within the array.
 Figure Number           Time period           Condition           Summary of kw plot
 5                       Os -0.15              Silence             No speeds visible
 6                       0.20s - 0.35s         Impulse             Waveguide characteristics
                                               introduced     by including      fluid     sound
                                               hammer on pipe      speed clearly visible
                                               exterior
 7                       0.40s - 0.55s         Silence             No speeds visible
 In summary, therefore, embodiments of the present invention provide for the deliberate
 incidence of an actively generated acoustic wave onto a fluid flow carrying structure
 simultaneous with data logging being undertaken by a DAS that monitors the structure.
 The incident acoustic energy couples into the fluid flow carrying structure and
 effectively acoustically propagates along the fluid, allowing speed of sound in the fluid
 to be determined, from which fluid flow speed can then be determined. Many different
 sound sources either within or without the fluid flow carrying structure may be used,
 such as seismic sources, or flow driven devices.
                                            13

WO 2014/068334                                                        PCT/GB2013/052875
 A further aspect of the present invention relates to the adaptation of the fluid flow
 carrying structure itself so as to enhance its ability to couple into its interior acoustic
 energy incident from the outside. In this respect external acoustic illumination of the
 interior of the structure can be enhanced by coupling into the structure more of the
 incident energy. Thus, for example, in the case of an oil or gas well the outer casing of
 the well may be adapted by the provision of an acoustic coupling mechanism arranged
 to couple into the interior of the well acoustic energy incident externally. Figures 12 to
  14 illustrate specific examples.
 As shown in Figure 12, the outer casing of a well 12 may be provided with devices or
 other adaptations to improve the ability of the well to couple into its interior incident
 acoustic energy, that then travels along the well in waveguide mode, as described
 previously. In particular, one such mechanism is a drum type arrangement 132 which
 passes from the outside of the well through the outer cement and casing, into the
 interior, and which operates similar to an ear drum to transmit acoustic energy. Figure
  13 illustrates the arrangement in further detail.
 More specifically, in Figure 13 an acoustic transmission drum 132 is shown, wherein
 the drum extends in this case through (in order from outside in the direction inwards)
 the cement, casing, annulus, and tubing into the interior of the well. In other
 embodiments the drum may only extend through a subset of these layers, for example,
 may extend through the cement or casing into, but not through, the annulus, or through
 the tubing and annulus from the casing. In further embodiments individual drums 132
 may be provided in the respective layers, or a subset of the layers of the well. For
 example, the tubing layer may be provided with a respective drum that passes
 therethrough, and the casing layer may be provided with a respective drum that passes
 therethrough. Others of the layers may also be provided with their own respective
 drums. In some embodiments, where one or more drums per layer are provided, the
 drums may preferably be in spatial alignment from layer to layer, such that acoustic
 energy may be passed from drum to drum.
 An acoustic transmission drum 132 is shown in more detail in Figure 13. The drum
 includes a first acoustically reactive surface 142, such as a membrane or the like, which
 is sensitive to incoming acoustic vibrations such that the vibrations are transferred into
                                               14

WO 2014/068334                                                            PCT/GB2013/052875
 the membrane. A second acoustically reactive surface 144, which may also be a
 membrane, is mechanically coupled to the first surface such that any acoustic vibrations
 induced in the first surface are transferred to the second surface. In this respect, the
 mechanical coupling 146 may be arranged to amplify the acoustic vibrations transferred
 to the second surface, for example by using a linked arm arrangement with a pivot point
 arranged to provide a mechanical advantage. In particular, as shown in Figure 13, a first
 arm attached at one end to the first surface 142 is pivotally attached to a linking arm.
 The linking arm is pivotally mounted about a fixed pivot point, and is pivotally attached
 at its other end to one end of a second arm. The second arm is attached at its other end
 to the second surface 144. The position of the fixed pivot can be set such that the
 acoustic vibrations transferred from first surface to the second surface are increased or
 decreased in amplitude.
 Other transfer mechanisms may be used. For example, a straight-arm linkage (i.e.
 without the pivots) may be made between the two surfaces, so that vibrations in the first
 surface are directly transferred to the second surface. Such a linkage may simply
 comprise a connecting rod connecting the inner surfaces of the two surfaces.
 In the embodiment of Figure 13, the outer face of second surface 144 is located within
 the main body of the well, in direct contact with any fluid flowing therethrough.
 Therefore, acoustic vibrations can be transferred directly into the fluid, to then
 propagate up and down the fluid carrying structure, as described previously, and as
 shown.
 The operation of the arrangement is as follows. External acoustic vibrations incident on
 the first surface are transferred to the first surface, and then, via the linkage mechanism,
 to the second surface. The acoustic vibration of the second surface is then coupled into
 the fluid in the structure, and propagates up and down the structure as if the structure
 were a waveguide, as described previously.
 A second acoustic coupling mechanism is shown in Figures 12 and 14. This mechanism
 comprises rods 134 which extend from the casing through the cement layer and into the
 surrounding rock strata. On Figure 12 the rods are not shown to scale, and as an
 example may be a few (2-3) to several (20-30) centimetres in length, although other
                                                 15

WO 2014/068334                                                          PCT/GB2013/052875
  lengths may be used. As shown in Figure 14, the rods are coupled through the cement,
  casing, annulus and tubing into the well interior, and are provided on their inner ends
  with vibration surfaces 152 to transmit any acoustic vibrations in the rods into the fluid
  in the well. The rods may be firmly mounted such that they cannot move, or
 alternatively may be slightly sprung mounted (not shown), such that they are able to
 move in and out in their elongate direction, as shown in Figure 14.
 The operation of the arrangement of Figure 14 is as follows. External acoustic
 vibrations in the surrounding rock strata and incident on the rods are transferred to the
 through the rods into the interior of the structure, and via the vibration surfaces into the
 fluid flowing therethrough. The acoustic vibration of vibration surfaces is coupled into
 the fluid in the structure, and propagates up and down the structure as if the structure
 were a waveguide, as described previously.
 In variations of the embodiment of Figure 14, the rods may only extend through some
 of the outer layers, such as the cement layer and the casing for example, but not through
 all of the outer layers.
 In the above embodiments focus has been made on coupling acoustic illumination
 energy into the fluid in a structure so as to illuminate the fluid and allow fluid flow to
 be found. However, in further embodiments the acoustic illumination energy may be
 intentionally coupled into the structure itself, to allow speed of sound in the structure to
 be determined to allow for structure integrity checking. For example, in the case of an
 oil well acoustic energy may be coupled into the cement layer and detected propagating
 through the cement layer to determine cracks or discontinuities in the cement layer. In
 this respect. the cement layer may be provided with an acoustic coupling mechanism
 such as those described above, which ends within the cement layer, and goes no further
 into the structure. For example a rod 134 or drum 132 may be provided extending from
 outside the well into the cement layer, but no other layer. This would act to couple
 incident acoustic energy from the outside primarily into the cement layer. Whilst some
 of the energy would also likely couple into other parts of the structure, the DAS should
 be able to resolve the acoustic energy travelling through the cement layer, and hence be
 able to check the structural integrity thereof.
                                              16

 Similar arrangements could also be made to check the integrity of other layers using external
acoustic illumination.
In the above embodiments we have focussed on fluid flow carrying structures. In other
embodiments, any other structure may be monitored, for example for structural integrity, using
the acoustic illumination and DAS sensing techniques described. The invention is therefore
not limited to the monitoring of fluid flow carrying structures, and extends to a method and
system for monitoring a structure, comprising determining the generation of an acoustic wave;
and at the same time as the generated acoustic wave is incident on the structure, sensing, using
a distributed acoustic sensor, acoustic energy coupled into the structure from the incident
generated acoustic wave.
Various modifications may be made to the above described embodiments to provide further
embodiments, any and all of which are intended to be encompassed by the appended claims.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                                17

                                           Claims
 1.     A method of monitoring a fluid-flow carrying structure, the method comprising:
                obtaining acoustic data corresponding to acoustic energy sensed using an
        optical fibre distributed acoustic sensor at the same time as an acoustic wave is
        incident on the structure, the acoustic energy being coupled into the fluid-flow
        carrying structure from the incident acoustic wave; and
                calculating a speed of sound in a fluid flow within the structure from the
acoustic data, the calculating comprising:
                plotting the acoustic data as a two dimensional space-time image;
                applying a two dimensional Fourier transform to the two-dimensional
space-time image to obtain a transformed image;
                in the transformed image, identifying gradients in the transformed
image, the identified gradients corresponding to the respective speeds of sound, or at
least a property or derivative thereof, of the coupled acoustic energy in the fluid flow
within the structure in opposite directions along the fluid flow carrying structure; and
                calculating the fluid flow in dependence on a difference between the
respective speeds of sound in the fluid flow in the opposite directions.
2. A method of monitoring a fluid-flow carrying structure, the method comprising:
        determining a generation of an acoustic wave;
        at the same time as the generated acoustic wave is incident on the structure,
sensing, using an optical fibre distributed acoustic sensor, acoustic energy coupled into
the fluid-flow carrying structure from the incident generated acoustic wave; and
        storing acoustic data corresponding to the sensed acoustic energy;
        wherein the generation of the acoustic wave and the sensing of the acoustic
energy and the storing of acoustic data are synchronised, and wherein the acoustic data
is not stored substantially during time periods between the periods when the acoustic
wave is incident on and propagating through the structure;
        wherein the method further comprises:
                triggering the generation of the acoustic wave;
                waiting for any propagation delay until the generated acoustic wave is
incident on the structure;
                                              18

                sensing the coupled acoustic energy and storing the corresponding
acoustic data; and then
                ceasing the storing of acoustic data once the acoustic wave has
propagated along the structure.
3.      A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the acoustic wave
is generated remote from the structure, or next to or within the structure.
4.      A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the acoustic wave
is generated by a seismic source, the seismic source being a source selected from the
group comprising:
        airguns, vibroseis, explosives, or piezo transducers.
5.      A method according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the acoustic wave is
generated by an acoustic source internal to the structure.
6.      A method according to claim 5, wherein the acoustic source is a mechanism
driven by a fluid flow.
7.      A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the acoustic wave
is one of a pseudo random sequence or an impulse.
8.      A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the structure is a
pipe, well, or borehole.
9.      A system for monitoring a fluid-flow carrying structure, the system comprising:
                a processor arranged in use to:
                        obtain acoustic data corresponding to acoustic energy sensed
using an optical fiber distributed acoustic sensor at the same time as an acoustic wave is
incident on the structure, the acoustic energy being coupled into the fluid-flow carrying
structure from the incident acoustic wave; and
                        calculate a speed of sound in a fluid flow within the structure
from the acoustic data, the calculating comprising:
                        plotting the acoustic data as a two dimensional space-time image;
                                              19

                        applying a two dimensional Fourier transform to the two
dimensional space-time image to obtain a transformed image;
                        in  the   transformed    image,   identifying   gradients in   the
transformed image, the identified gradients corresponding to the respective speeds of
sound, or at least a property or derivative thereof, of the coupled acoustic energy in the
fluid flow within the structure in opposite directions along the fluid flow carrying
structure; and
                        calculating the fluid flow in dependence on a difference between
the respective speeds of sound in the fluid flow in the opposite directions.
 10.    A system for monitoring a fluid-flow carrying structure, the system comprising:
        an acoustic wave generator for generating an acoustic wave; and
        an optical fibre distributed acoustic sensor (DAS) for sensing, at the same time
as the generated acoustic wave is incident on the structure, acoustic energy coupled into
the fluid-flow carrying structure from the incident generated acoustic wave and for
storing acoustic data corresponding to the sensed acoustic energy;
        wherein the acoustic wave generator and the DAS are synchronised, and
wherein the acoustic data is not stored by the DAS substantially during time periods
between the periods when the acoustic wave is incident on and propagating through the
structure;
        wherein the DAS is further arranged to:
                wait for any propagation delay from a triggering of the generation of the
acoustic wave until the generated wave is incident on the structure;
                sense the coupled acoustic energy and store corresponding acoustic data;
and then
                cease the storing of the acoustic data once the acoustic wave has
propagated along the structure.
 11.    A system according to claim 10, wherein the acoustic wave generator is remote
from the structure, or next to or within the structure.
 12.    A system according to any of claims 10 or 11, wherein the acoustic wave
generator is a seismic source, the seismic source being a source selected from the group
comprising:
                                              20

        airguns, vibroseis, explosives, or piezo transducers.
13.     A system according to any of claims 10 or 11, wherein the acoustic wave
generator is an acoustic source internal to the structure.
14.     A system according to claim 13, wherein the acoustic source is a mechanism
driven by a fluid flow.
15.     A system according to any of claims 10 to 14, wherein the acoustic wave is one
of a pseudo random sequence or an impulse.
16.     A system according to any of claims 10 to 15,
17.     A system according to any of claims 9 to 16, wherein the structure is a pipe,
well, or borehole.
                                             21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
