                                             ABSTRACT
   Cartridge, machine and system for the preparation of beverages and process for
   manufacturing the cartridge
 5
   The cartridge (1) according to the invention comprises an envelope (2) having a first and a
   second end wall (4, 5) connected together by an annular lateral wall (6) and defining an
   inner chamber (7) containing a quantity or dose of a substance (S) for preparation of the
   beverage. The envelope (2) has at least one first and at least one second permeable wall
10 (6a, 5) acting as an inlet for the introduction of a flow of water into the chamber (7) and as
   an outlet from it respectively for outflow of the beverage from chamber (7). Between the
   first and the second permeable walls (6a, 5) the envelope (2) has an outwardly projecting
   annular formation (3g). A portion of the permeable inlet wall (6a) for the introduction of
   water into the chamber (7) is made in the annular lateral wall (6) of the envelope (2). The
15 annular formation (3g) extends from the second end wall (5) in a direction substantially
   opposite to the first end wall (4).
   (Figure 3)

                   2/3
6a6
    2                          I
      G~22
            124        U~*     124
           va    ! 00   a (&.O          2
                   it              a 18
 16
                FIG. 3

                                                  1
   Cartridge, machine and system for the preparation of beverages and process for
   manufacturing the cartridge
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014220336, the
 5 original disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   This invention relates to systems for the preparation of beverages, in particular coffee,
   through the use of prepacked cartridges.
10 The cartridges (or capsules or pods, according to other current names) for the preparation
   of liquid food products, for example beverages, through the addition of a liquid (which
   may be under pressure and/or at high temperature) and/or steam, form part of a very rich
   and varied technological sector as documented for example by FR-A-757 358, FR-A-2 373
   999, FR-A-2 556 323, GB-A-938 617, GB-A-2 023 086, CH-A-406 561, US-A-3 403 617,
15 US-A-3 470 812, US-A-3 607 297, WO-A-86/02 537, EP-A-0 199 953, EP-A-0 211 511,
   EP-A-0 242 556, EP-A-0 468 078, EP-A-0 469 162, EP-A-0 507 905, WO 2010/106516
   Al and EP-A-2 218 653.
   Many of the solutions described in the abovementioned documents primarily refer to the
20 preparation of liquid products comprising beverages such as coffee, tea, chocolate,
   consomm6s, soups or various infusions.
   The invention specifically relates to a cartridge for the preparation of a beverage, of the
   type comprising
25         an envelope having first and second end walls connected to each other by an
   annular lateral wall defining an internal chamber containing an amount or dose of a
   substance for preparation of the beverage;
           the said envelope having at least one first and at least one second permeable wall
   acting as an inlet and an outlet respectively for the introduction of a flow of water into the
30 said chamber and respectively for outflow of the beverage from the said chamber; the
   envelope having an outwardly projecting annular formation between the said first and
   second permeable walls; and in which

                                                   2
           the said at least one permeable inlet wall portion for the introduction of water into
   the said chamber is made in the annular lateral wall of the envelope.
   Cartridges of this type are described in international patent application W02012/164521A1
 5 in the name of the Applicant. In these cartridges the envelope comprises a substantially
   cup-shaped body made of an injection moulded plastics material which has an annular
   formation projecting radially outwards from an intermediate portion of its lateral wall.
   When in use this projecting annular formation is intended to abut against a corresponding
   shoulder provided in the infusion chamber of a machine used for the preparation of a
10 beverage in order to provide a liquid-tight separation between the portion of the cartridge
   through which pressurised water is introduced and the portion through which the beverage
   leaves the cartridge.
   This invention may provide a cartridge of the type initially defined configured in such a
15 way that it can also be used in a machine for the preparation of beverages which is
   designed for the use of another (and different) type of cartridge, in particular a machine of
   the type described in Italian patent application T02012A000061 in the name of the
   Applicant.
20 In general, in fact, the market for cartridges for coffee and/or beverages in general provides
   that these cartridges are combined with or configured for use with a specific delivery
   machine which is capable of supplying hot water and/or steam for infusion of the beverage.
   In this context solutions in which a consumer purchases a coffee machine and is
   subsequently supplied with cartridges specifically designed and constructed for operation
25 in combination with that machine are known and widely used.
   In such cases some salient characteristics of the cartridge/machine system, such as one or
   more of the following, are defined for the consumer at the time of purchase and cannot be
   modified subsequently:
30         - the external shape of the cartridge for the purpose of insertion into the machine,
           - the manner in which the cartridge is inserted at the outset,
           - the configuration    of the infusion chamber containing the cartridge during the

                                                   3
   process of extracting the liquid product, that is the beverage,
            - the manner in which the material comprising the cartridge interacts with the
   infusion chamber,
            - the manner in which the beverage is extracted, and
 5          - the manner in which the cartridge is expelled after the beverage has been
   delivered.
   This invention is intended to provide a cartridge which in addition to functioning in a
   machine provided with a cartridge holder specifically designed and manufactured for it is
10 capable of being used effectively in a machine which has a cartridge holder of a different
   type belonging to the prior art. This is in order to offer the consumer, or the owner of such
   a machine according to the prior art, the possibility of widening the range of cartridges
   which can be used and the food products which can be produced, for example by making it
   possible to produce coffee of the "filter coffee" or extracts from "leaf' products in addition
15 to coffee of the "espresso" type.
   This invention may provide a cartridge which can be conveniently made using a
   biodegradable/compostable material as defined below in this description.
20 The invention provides a cartridge for the preparation of a beverage, comprising
          an envelope having first and second end walls connected to each other by an annular
   lateral wall and defining an internal chamber containing an amount or dose of a substance
   for preparation of the beverage;
          the said envelope having at least one first and at least one second permeable wall
25 defining an inlet and an outlet respectively for the introduction of a flow of water into the
   said chamber and outflow of the beverage from the said chamber respectively; between the
   said first and second permeable walls the envelope having an annular formation)
   protruding outward;
          wherein a permeable inlet wall portion for the introduction of water into the said
30 chamber is provided in the said annular lateral wall of the envelope; and
            wherein the said annular formation extends from the said second end wall in a
   direction substantially opposite the said first end wall as a prolongation of the lateral wall

                                                   4
   of the envelope, protruding beyond the said second end wall, substantially along the axial
   direction of the said envelope.
   In a currently preferred embodiment the aforesaid annular formation extends as an
 5 extension of the lateral wall of the envelope projecting beyond the second end wall,
   substantially in the axial direction of the said envelope.
   Further characteristics of a cartridge according to the invention are defined in the
   dependent claims.
10
   As has been mentioned previously, a cartridge according to the invention may be
   conveniently manufactured from a compostable/biodegradable material.
   The characteristics which a material must have in order to be defined as being
15 compostable, according to a currently accepted definition even among patents (see for
   example EP-B-0 497 838, EP-B-0 561 982, EP-B-0 788 733, EP-B-0 723 572, EP-B-0 868
   275, EP-B-0 971 818 and EP-B-1 842 944), have been established, for example, by
   European     standard EN       13432   "Requirements    for packaging recoverable   through
   composting and biodegradation - testing scheme and evaluation criteria for the final
20 acceptance of packaging", adopted in Italy under the name UNI EN 13432.
   According to this standard the characteristics which a compostable material must have are
   those listed below:
            - biodegradability, that is metabolic conversion of the compostable material into
25 carbon dioxide, this property being measured through a standard test method - draft EN
   14046 (also published as ISO 14855: biodegradability under controlled composting
   conditions); the acceptance level is 90% (with respect to cellulose) which has to be
   achieved in less than six months;
            - disintegratability, that is fragmentation of the final compost and its loss from
30 visibility (lack of visual contamination); this is measured by a pilot scale composting test
   (draft EN 14045): samples of the material under test are composted together with organic
   wastes for three months; at the end of this the compost is screened through a 2 mm sieve.

                                                  5
   The mass of residue of the test material having dimensions > 2 mm should be less than
   10% of the initial mass;
            - absence of adverse effects on the composting process: this is checked by a pilot
   scale composting test;
 5          - low levels of heavy metals (below predetermined maximum levels) and the
   absence of adverse effects on the quality of the compost (e.g.: reduction of the agricultural
   value and the presence of ecotoxicological effects on plant growth); a plant growth test
   (modified OECD test 208) is performed on compost samples in which degradation of the
   test material has taken place: no difference between that and a control compost should be
10 shown;
            -  other chemical and physical parameters which should not change after the
   material under investigation has degraded: pH; salt content; volatile solids; N; P; MgpK.
   It will be appreciated that a biodegradable material is not necessarily compostable, because
15 it must also disintegrate during a composting cycle. On the other hand a material which
   breaks up into microscopic pieces during a composting cycle, such that they are then not
   wholly biodegradable, is not compostable.
   Standard UNI EN 13432 is a harmonised standard and has been published in the Official
20 Gazette of the European Community, and has been accepted in Europe at national level
   and provides a presumption of conformity with European Directive 94/62 EC on packaging
   and packaging wastes.
   With the increasing interest in the environment and the end of life of food wastes produced
25 on a daily basis, compostability has become an increasingly important requirement for
   consumers of the cartridges (or capsules or pods) considered here.
   In this respect the solution of resorting to a compostable material, that is - according to a
   name sometimes used in the industry - a "bio" material, to manufacture the body of such
30 cartridges has been found to be promising, such as for example:
            - polylactic acid (PLA),
            - poly-L-lactide (PLLA),

                                                  6
           - poly-D-lactide (PDLA),
           - a stereocomplex blend of PDLA and PLLA
           - maize starches,
           - cellulosic materials,
 5         - formulations based on PLA, PDLA, PLLA in combination with mineral fillers,
           - formulations based on PLA, PDLA, PLLA in combination with mineral fillers and
   plasticisers,
           - formulations based on PLA, PDLA, PLLA and cellulose,
           - formulations based on maize starches in combination with mineral fillers,
10         - polybutylene succinate,
           - polybutylene succinate in combination with mineral fillers,
           - polymers produced by microorganisms or bacteria such as PHA (polyhydroxy
           alkanoates) and PHB (poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate),
           - materials resulting from the combination of plant fibres and starches,
15         - materials resulting from the combination of plant biomass and starches,
           - materials resulting from the combination of plant fibres and PLA,
           - materials resulting from the combination of plant biomass and PLA, and
           - combinations of the materials listed above.
20 It has been observed that these "bio" materials used for the manufacture of cartridges for
   use in coffee machines provided with perforating punches can give rise to high elongation
   on fracture such as to render the acts of perforation not very effective, for example when
   the material forms a kind of cap around the punch instead of tearing, giving rise to possible
   problems with delivery.
25
   This perforation difficulty may be encountered in the case of cartridges according to the
   prior art described in previous application T02012A000061: introduction of hot water into
   the cartridge gives rise to an interaction between the perforating/tearing components
   located on the machine with corresponding projections in the form of pendants or recesses
30 located on the edge of the cartridge. This difficulty is overcome through this invention
   because it does not involve any interaction between the cartridge and machine with regard
   to perforation/tearing.

                                                     7
   A cartridge body of such a material may be manufactured in various embodiments using a
   moulding process subdivided into two substages:
            - filling of the mould cavity,
 5          - residence of the material in the sealed mould maintained at a temperature above
   ambient temperature or alternatively subsequent curing in a stove or through the effect of
   UV radiation.
   As already described above, the invention may provide a cartridge which is able to extend
10 the types of cartridges which can be used in a machine according to the prior art, in
   particular a machine of the type defined in previous Italian patent application
   T02012A000061.
   This application describes a type of cartridge in which the base (which represents the
15 "outlet" for the beverage) deforms through the effect of the pressure of the liquid/steam
   introduced into the cartridge so that it is perforated by a second set of hollow points
   (broadly similar to injection needles) having filtering properties. These construction
   embodiments are in themselves known, and are particularly suitable for the delivery of
   beverages such as espresso coffee, in that perforation of the base through the pressure
20 effect is a salient characteristic to create the necessary hydraulic conditions for pressurised
   hot water flow (typically in the range 3-9 bar depending upon the products).
   Documents such as EP 1 295 554 Al, WO 2006/005736 A2 or EP 1 886 942 Al identify
   specific       solutions    inherent     to    filtering   points,   the     mechanism       for
25 opening/closing/perforating by means of the perforating points and the type of cartridge,
   with corresponding systems.
   In current manufacturing practice provision may be made for the lateral wall and the base
   wall of the cartridge to be made of a plastics material such as, for example, polypropylene
30 coextruded in lamination with ethylene-vinyl-alcohol (EVOH), which is shaped by
   thermoforming. It is also known that a composite material of such a nature cannot
   therefore be classified as a compostable material.

                                                   8
   This technology is restricting as regards the range of products which can be obtained from
   the aforesaid cartridge/machine combination, ruling out all those beverages which require
   an extraction pressure of zero (ambient pressure), such as for example "filter coffee" or
 5 "leaf' tea, which can be obtained conventionally through the simple gravimetric
   percolation of hot water.
   In the case of the cartridge according to this invention there is no particular interaction
   between the base of the cartridge and the filtering points, so it is also possible to deliver
10 under environmental pressure conditions.
   The invention also relates to a machine for the preparation of beverages, intended for the
   use of a cartridge according to the invention, comprising
          an infusion unit capable of receiving a cartridge according to the invention, and with
15 which supply means are associated for supplying a flow of water intended to be introduced
   into the cartridge as well as discharge means for outflow of the beverage formed in the
   infusion unit toward a collecting vessel;
          the infusion unit including a plurality of parts which can be moved apart and brought
   close together, and coupled together in a leak-tight way to define as a whole an infusion
20 chamber in which the said cartridge can be introduced; the infusion chamber being capable
   of defining, relative to a cartridge positioned therein, an annular space which can be
   connected to water supply means, and is separated in a liquid-tight manner from the
   discharge means, in which
          one part of the infusion unit associated with the discharge means has a sealing ring of
25 a deformable material, against which the said annular end formation of the cartridge
   positioned in the infusion chamber abuts when the latter is closed, and in which
            another cooperating part of the infusion unit comprises an active formation which
   when the infusion chamber is closed interferes with the said sealing ring such as to deform
   it radially against the said annular end formation of the cartridge, for separating the
30 infusion chamber from the discharge means in a liquid-tight manner.
   The invention also relates to a system for preparing beverages comprising such a machine

                                                     9
   and a cartridge of the new type having the characteristics defined above.
   Finally the invention also relates to a process for manufacturing the body of a cartridge
   according to the invention, the process comprising the following steps:
 5        - a first step of forming at least one part of the said envelope, and
          - a second step of thermal post-treatment of the said at least one part of the said
   envelope, comprising one or more of the following steps:
          - i) residence in a closed mould,
          - ii) baking in an oven,
10        - iii) treatment with ultraviolet radiation.
   Further characteristics and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the detailed
   description which follows, purely by way of a non-limiting example, with reference to the
   appended drawings in which:
15          Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a cartridge according to this invention;
            Figure 2 is a plan view of a cup-shaped body included in the cartridge according to
   Figure 1 in plan view from above;
            Figure 3 is a cross-section view according to the line III-III in Figures 1 and 2;
            Figure 4 is a partial view in axial cross-section showing part of a machine for the
20 preparation of a beverage using a cartridge according to the preceding figures;
            Figure 5 is a perspective view showing another type of cartridge according to the
   prior art which can also be used in the machine mentioned on page 4; and
            Figure 6 is a partial axial cross-sectional view which shows part of the same
   machine as in Figure 4 in a condition in which a cartridge according to the prior art
25 illustrated in Figure 5 is being used instead of a cartridge according to this invention.
   In Figures 1 to 4, 1 indicates overall a cartridge according to this invention for the
   preparation of a beverage, for example espresso coffee.
30 Cartridge 1 comprises an envelope 2, for example of food-grade plastics material.
   In the embodiment illustrated envelope 2 comprises a body 3, essentially in the shape of a

                                                  10
   cup, which is closed off at the top by an end wall or cover 4. Both cup body 3 and cover 4
   may for example be manufactured by injection moulding, and may be joined together in
   any way which is known, for example by welding, adhesive bonding, etc.
 5 In the embodiment illustrated envelope 2 as a whole has a general shape of an essentially
   truncated frustoconical type. As an alternative this envelope may have a general
   configuration which is for example cylindrical or prismatic.
   Cup-shaped body 3 has a lower end wall 5, essentially parallel to cover 4 and connected to
10 a lateral wall 6 of substantially annular shape (see in particular Figures 1 and 3).
   Envelope 2 defines within it a region or chamber 7. This region or chamber 7 contains a
   quantity or dose of a substance S for the preparation of a beverage, such as for example
   ground roast coffee (Figure 3).
15
   Upper end portion 6a of lateral wall 6 of cup-shaped body 3 has a transverse annular
   formation 3a projecting radially outwards in the form of a flange.
   As will better be seen in Figures 3 and 4, the upper surface or face of the upper end wall or
20 cover 4 is preferably flush with the upper surface of the flange formation 3a in body 3.
   The upper portion 6a of the annular lateral wall of envelope 2 is provided with a plurality
   of microholes 8 which make it permeable to water. Microholes 8 may have a cross-section
   such as to prevent the substance contained in the envelope for preparation of the beverage
25 from escaping, and/or a filter, for example of paper or the like, which is capable of
   retaining the aforesaid substance within envelope 2 may be located within envelope 2
   immediately adjacent to the inner surface of its lateral wall 6.
   At least one portion of lower end wall 5 of envelope 2 is also preferably provided with
30 microholes, indicated by 9 in Figures 1 and 2, such as to render the said portion of wall
   permeable to the liquid beverage prepared through contact between substance S present in
   cartridge 1 and the water added to it through inlet portion 6a of its lateral wall 6.

                                                  11
   As will be more clearly apparent below, in use the upper portion 6a of lateral annular wall
   6 of the envelope is capable of acting as an inlet for the introduction of a flow of water into
   inner chamber 7 of the cartridge in order to prepare a beverage. In addition to this, the
 5 perforated wall of base 5 is able to act as an outlet for the outflow of beverage from
   chamber 7 towards a collecting vessel such as a cup or the like.
   Between portion 6a of the lateral wall and lower end wall 5 envelope 2 has an annular
   formation 3g projecting outwards. In the embodiment illustrated in the drawings, which is
10 currently preferred, this annular formation 3g extends as an elongation of lateral wall 6 of
   envelope 2 and projects beyond the wall of lower end 5, substantially in the axial direction
   of envelope 2.
   In the embodiment illustrated in the drawings water is introduced into chamber 1 for
15 preparation of the beverage through only the upper portion 6a of lateral wall 6 of envelope
   2.
   In other embodiments, not illustrated, further microholes for the entry of water into
   cartridge 1 may be made in its end wall 4, as in the embodiment illustrated in Figure 1 of
20 international patent application W02012/164521A1, already cited previously. In this case
   the area or cross-section of the flow for the entry of water through upper end wall 4 is
   preferably in any case smaller than the area or cross-section of flow in upper portion 6a of
   lateral wall 6 in such a way that the entry of water into inner chamber 7 of the cartridge
   takes place mainly through its lateral wall 6.
25
   In any event, a cartridge 1 according to this invention may be conveniently manufactured
   using a biodegradable/compostable       material, and in particular a polymer material,
   preferably a polymer extracted from biomass or a synthetic compostable polymer, or again
   a polymer produced by genetically modified microorganisms or bacteria, or a polymer
30 manufactured from fossil monomers, or again a material containing natural fibres such as
   by-products of the food chain (maize, coffee, rice husks, etc.), or obtained from the
   mowing of meadows, bound together with a binding agent or a polymer mixture.

                                                 12
   A beverage may be prepared using a cartridge 1 of the type described above by means of
   extraction under pressure with a machine of which one embodiment will be described
   below with particular reference to Figures 4 and 6.
 5
   As will be seen in particular in Figure 4, a machine M according to this invention
   comprises an infusion unit indicated as a whole by G.
   Although a rather detailed description of machine M and in particular infusion unit G will
10 be provided below, it is pointed out that this machine and this infusion unit essentially
   correspond to those described in Italian patent application T02012A000061 in the name of
   the Applicant, already mentioned above in this description.
   Preferably the lower part 10 of infusion unit G is stationary, and intermediate part 11 and
15 upper part 12 can move with respect to it, as will be more particularly described below.
   Lower part 10 of the infusion unit comprises a body 13, essentially in the form of a cup,
   close to base wall 13a which forms an outflow passage 14.
20 Within cup-shaped member 13, at a particular distance above its base wall 13a, there is
   fitted a supporting element 15 of essentially annular shape provided with a central opening
   16. This element 15 has in its upper part a projecting annular formation 15a extending
   upwards for a particular radial distance from the lateral wall of cup-shaped body 13.
25 In the annular space defined between upstanding formation 15a and the lateral wall of cup
   shaped body 13 there is a toroidal sealing ring 17.
   Lower part 10 of infusion unit G also includes a plate 18, fixed around the lateral wall of
   cup-shaped body 13.
30
   Intermediate part 11 of infusion unit G can be moved (vertically for those observing
   Figures 4 and 6) relative to lower part 10.

                                                13
   This intermediate part 11 essentially comprises an annular containing body 19, which has a
   lower portion 19a movably mounted within the upper part of cup-shaped body 13 of lower
   part 10.
 5
   The lower edge of portion 19a of containment body 19 has a tapering bevel 19b. This
   bevelled edge 19b can when in use be wedged between the lateral wall of cup-shaped body
   13 and sealing ring 17, causing the latter to be radially compressed against upstanding
   formation 15a of supporting member 15, for the purposes which will be clarified below.
10
   Tapering body 19 has an intermediate portion 19c within which there is an annular seat 20
   on which there is provided an annular perforating member 21, whose functions will be
   clarified below, on a shoulder.
15 Seat 20 of containment element 19 communicates with an adjacent seat 22 (see in
   particular Figure 4) formed in the upper part of element 19, which opens out at the annular
   summit edge of that element 19.
   Annular perforating element 21 is essentially in the form of an annular knife, with a single
20 cutting edge 21a (Figure 4) facing upwards.
   Infusion unit C shown in Figures 4 and 6 comprises a further annular perforating element
   indicated by 121 mounted on a further seat 120 in containment body 19, in an axially offset
   position (downwards for those looking at Figures 4, 6) in relation to that of perforating
25 element 21.
   Perforating element 121 has a plurality of cutting points or teeth 121a spaced apart
   circumferentially, whose functions will be clarified below.
30 Upper part 12 of infusion unit G substantially comprises a sealing element 23, essentially
   in the form of a disc, provided below with a first radially outermost annular groove which
   is engaged by a sealing ring 24, and a second annular radially innermost groove coaxial

                                                  14
   with the former in which sealing ring 124 is engaged, the latter being designed to press
   against the upper end wall of a cartridge 1 according to Figures 1 to 3.
   As an alternative, part 3a of cartridge 1, that is its upper flange, may be constructed as
 5 flange 103a of the cartridge according to the prior art illustrated in Figure 5.
   Sealing element 23 can conveniently move relative to intermediate part 11 in order to
   allow a cartridge 1 to be inserted within containment element 19, and to enable cartridge 1
   to be subsequently discharged when exhausted after delivering the beverage made with it.
10
   In Figures 4 and 6 reference number 25 indicates a plate located within containment
   element 19, lying essentially parallel to plate 18 attached to cup-shaped body 13.
   Springs 26 which tend to press plate 25 away from plate 18 and therefore to press
15 intermediate part 11 away from lower part 10 of infusion unit G are placed between plates
   18 and 25.
   In the wall of containment element 19 there is provided a transverse passage 30, the
   radially innermost extremity of which communicates with a region within that containment
20 element 19 through at least one longitudinal passage 31.
   When in use, a cartridge 1 of the type described above with reference to Figures 1 to 3 is
   placed within containment element 19, when the upper part 12 of infusion body G is in a
   position away from its intermediate part 11.
25
   Lateral wall 6 of this cartridge 1 has transverse dimensions such that it can be inserted into
   infusion unit G, in particular through perforating elements 21 and 121, which do not
   interact with it in any way. The diametrically outermost dimension of downwardly
   projecting formation 3g corresponds substantially to the diametrical dimension of sealing
30 ring 17 in its undeformed condition, that is when the latter is not subjected to radial
   compression by bevelled edge 19b of containment body 19.

                                                  15
   Through kinetic mechanisms which are known to or at least within the purview of those
   skilled in the art, upper part 12 of infusion unit G is abutted against the upper edge of
   containment element 19. Innermost sealing ring 124 of sealing element 23 is then made to
   abut the upper surface of cartridge 1 in a liquid-tight way.
 5
   If in an alternative embodiment the upper flange of the cartridge is constructed in the same
   way as flange 103a of the cartridge illustrated in Figure 5, innermost sealing ring 24 of
   sealing element 23 is then able to abut against the upper surface of the cartridge in a liquid
   tight way.
10
   Lower edge 3g of cartridge 1 is then inserted between upstanding formation 15a of
   supporting element 15 and toroidal sealing ring 17. The latter is compressed against the
   outer surface of that edge 3g of cartridge 1 as a result of it being engaged by the lower
   bevelled edge 19b of containment element 19.
15
   Through the effect of the force of sealing elements 124 (or 24 in the case of a cartridge
   having a flange such as that indicated by 103a in Figure 5) and 17, annular chamber 20, 22,
   which is defined within containment element 19 by the top part of cartridge 1, is provided
   with a liquid-tight seal above and below.
20
   Sealing ring 124 (or 24) separates that annular chamber 20, 22 from the region above cover
   4 of the cartridge, while lower sealing ring 17 disconnects annular chamber 20, 22 from the
   region beneath cartridge 1 and outflow passage 14.
25 When infusion unit G is in the sealed condition a flow of pressurised hot water can then be
   fed to aforesaid annular chamber 20, 22 through passages 30 and 31. The pressurised hot
   water can then penetrate within cartridge 1 through microholes 8 made in its lateral wall 6.
   A plurality of streams of pressurised hot water radially converging towards the axis of the
30 cartridge and progressively descending in the direction of its base wall 5 is thus injected
   into cartridge 1.

                                                  16
   Wall 5, which is conveniently provided with microholes 9 as illustrated in Figures 1 and 2,
   then allows the beverage to flow out without the need to be torn or perforated.
   As an alternative, base wall 5 of the body of cartridge 1 may be of the impermeable type,
 5 but may be torn through the effect of the increasing pressure within cartridge 1.
   According to a further alternative, in a manner which is not illustrated in the drawings in
   the region above base wall 5 of cartridge 1 there may be provided a further perforation
   element with projections or points designed to tear or perforate that base wall 5 and
10 consequently allow the beverage to flow out.
   In any event the beverage flowing out from cartridge 1 passes through outflow passage or
   conduit 14 through passage 16 in supporting element 15 and can be delivered to a
   collecting vessel, such as a cup or glass.
15
   Once the beverage has been delivered, delivery unit G is again opened and its intermediate
   part 11 and upper part 12 again take up their respective initial positions.
   Spent cartridge 1 can be removed, for example by means of a spring expulsion device
20 located in the region between that cartridge 1 and supporting element 15.
   As mentioned previously, machine M and in particular infusion unit G described above
   with reference to Figure 4 are essentially of the type forming the subject matter of previous
   Italian patent application no. T02012A000061.         This machine and this infusion unit
25 according to the prior art have in fact been designed for the use of cartridges previously
   manufactured according to the prior art, such as cartridge 101 illustrated in Figure 5 of this
   application (corresponding to Figure 13 in Italian application no. T02012A000061).
   With reference to Figure 5, cartridge 101 according to the prior art has a cup-shaped body
30 103 which has at the top an essentially planar flange formation 103a which projects
   radially outward.

                                                17
   Body 103 is conveniently manufactured with a multi-layer laminated structure, for
   example with an inner layer of polypropylene and an intermediate layer of EVOH
   (copolymer of ethylene and vinyl alcohol) and an outer layer of polypropylene.
 5 In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 5 body 103 of cartridge 101 has a lateral wall
   which has a formation 103b, projecting transversely outward, adjacent to flange 103a,
   which extends circumferentially about its entire perimeter.
   In particular, from flange 103a projecting formation 103b comprises an essentially
10 cylindrical upper portion 103c followed by a step portion 103d in which the diameter of its
   transverse cross-section is reduced.
   The lateral wall of cup-shaped body 103 also has a portion of principal wall 103e, which is
   for example frustoconical, connecting to a raised base wall 103f, forming an annular edge
15 103g projecting downwards.
   Cartridge 101 also comprises a cover 104 (Figure 5) connected to flange 103a of cup
   shaped body 103, for example by thermal welding or ultrasound welding.
20 Cover 104 may for example be constructed with a multilayer structure, including an inner
   polypropylene layer and an outer aluminium layer.
   Taken together, cover 104 and cup-shaped body 103 define a chamber which contains a
   quantity or dose of material for the preparation of a beverage, for example ground roast
25 coffee.
   The lateral wall of cup-shaped body 103 has a circumferential formation 103i, projecting
   transversely outward, in its median portion.
30 The lateral wall of body 103 of cartridge 101 also has a circumferential ring of transversely
   outwardly projecting formations 103h in the form of alveoli which are angularly spaced
   apart.

                                                  18
   Perforating elements 21 and 121 of the said infusion unit G are borne by containment
   element 19 in axially offset respective positions in such a way that circular cutter 21a of
   perforating element 21 can tear projecting portions 103h, while points or teeth 121a of
 5 perforating element 121 can produce a plurality of tears in the projecting circumferential
   formation 103i of the cartridge.
   Using a cartridge 101 in unit G as illustrated in Figure 6 it is possible to make a double
   plurality of openings in the lateral wall of that cartridge 101 so that pressurised hot water
10 can be effectively injected within it.
   Also, in the case where a cartridge 101 is used, projecting formation 103g of that cartridge,
   acting together with the associated toroidal sealing ring 17 radially compressed by the
   inclined plane 19b of containment element           19, provides    an effective   liquid-tight
15 disconnection between the chamber in which pressurised water is injected into the
   cartridge and the outlet for the beverage made.
   If a cartridge of the type illustrated with reference Figure 5 is used, radially outermost
   sealing ring 24 of cover 23 ensures that the chamber in which water is injected into the
20 cartridge is disconnected from the environment outside the infusion unit in the course of
   extraction of the beverage.
   Cartridge 1 according to this invention, described above with reference to Figures 1 to 4, is
   compatible with the use of machine M and infusion unit G in Figure 6 (in itself known for
25 the use of a cartridge according to Figure 5), but is also suitable for use with all other
   machines or infusion units illustrated and described in previous Italian patent application
   T02012A000061 by the Applicant.
   Of course, without affecting the principle of the invention, embodiments and details of
30 construction may be varied widely from what has been described and illustrated purely by
   way of a non-limiting example without thereby going beyond the scope of the invention as
   defined by the appended claims.

                                                    19
   Thus, for example, annular formation 3g of body 2 of cartridge 1 may be constructed of
   one piece with that body, or may be constructed separately from that body and
   subsequently attached to it by for example welding.
 5
   Lower portion 5, 3g of body 2 may also be made and shaped by thermoforming.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
   does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
10 knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
   the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   ''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
15 sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                                  20
                                              CLAIMS
   1.     Cartridge for the preparation of a beverage, comprising
          an envelope having first and second end walls connected to each other by an annular
 5 lateral wall and defining an internal chamber containing an amount or dose of a substance
   for preparation of the beverage;
          the said envelope having at least one first and at least one second permeable wall
   defining an inlet and an outlet respectively for the introduction of a flow of water into the
   said chamber and outflow of the beverage from the said chamber respectively; between the
10 said first and second permeable walls the envelope having an annular formation)
   protruding outward;
          wherein a permeable inlet wall portion for the introduction of water into the said
   chamber is provided in the said annular lateral wall of the envelope; and
          wherein the said annular formation extends from the said second end wall in a
15 direction substantially opposite the said first end wall as a prolongation of the lateral wall
   of the envelope, protruding beyond the said second end wall, substantially along the axial
   direction of the said envelope.
   2.     Cartridge according to Claim 1, in which the envelope has a transverse annular
20 formation protruding radially toward outward, in the form of a flange, around the said first
   end wall.
   3.     Cartridge according to Claim 2, in which the said inlet wall portion for the
   introduction of water into the said chamber is provided only in the annular lateral wall of
25 the envelope.
   4.     Cartridge according to Claim 1, in which a further inlet wall portion for the
   introduction of water into the cartridge is provided in an end wall of the envelope.
30 5.     Cartridge according to Claim 4, in which the said further inlet wall portion of the
   envelope for the introduction of water into the said chamber has a flow area or cross
   section smaller than that of the inlet wall portion provided in the lateral wall, such that the

                                                21
   introduction of water into the chamber takes place mainly through the said lateral wall.
   6.    Cartridge according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the envelope has a
   general   shape    which is essentially   cylindrical or frustoconical    or prismatic   or
 5 frustopyramidal.
   7.    Cartridge according to any one of the preceding claims, in which the said envelope
   comprises an essentially cup-shaped body made of an injection-moulded plastics material.
10 8.    Cartridge according to Claim 7, in which the said envelope further comprises a top
   wall or cover, connected to a mouth of the said cup-shaped body.
   9.    Cartridge according to Claim 7 or Claim 8, in which the said material is chosen from
   the group comprising:
15       - polylactic acid (PLA),
         - poly-L-lactide (PLLA),
         - poly-D-lactide (PDLA),
         - stereo complex blends of PDLA and PLLA,
         - corn starches,
20       - cellulosic materials,
         - PLA-, PDLA-, PLLA-based compounds, with mineral fillers,
         - PLA-, PDLA-, PLLA-based compounds with mineral fillers and plasticisers,
         - PLA-, PDLA-, PLLA-based compounds and cellulose,
         - compounds based on corn starches, with mineral fillers,
25       - polybutylene succinate,
         - polybutylene succinate with mineral fillers,
         - polymers produced by micro-organisms or bacteria, such as PHA (poly-hydroxy
   alkanoates) or PHB (poly-beta-hydroxy-butyrate),
         - compounds of plant fibres and starches,
30       - compounds of plant biomass and starches,
         - compounds of plant fibres and PLA,
         - compounds of plant biomass and PLA, and

                                                  22
          - combinations of the materials listed above.
   10.    Machine for the preparation of beverages including a cartridge according to one or
   more of the preceding claims, comprising
 5        an infusion unit capable of receiving a cartridge according to one or more of the
   preceding claims, and with which supply means are associated for supplying a flow of
   water intended to be introduced into the cartridge as well as discharge means for outflow
   of the beverage formed in the infusion unit toward a collecting vessel;
          the infusion unit including a plurality of parts which can be moved apart and brought
10 close together, and coupled together in a leak-tight way to define as a whole an infusion
   chamber in which the said cartridge can be introduced; the infusion chamber being capable
   of defining, relative to a cartridge positioned therein, an annular space which can be
   connected to water supply means, and is separated in a liquid-tight manner from the
   discharge means, in which
15        one part of the infusion unit associated with the discharge means has a sealing ring of
   a deformable material, against which the said annular end formation of the cartridge
   positioned in the infusion chamber abuts when the latter is closed, and in which
          another cooperating part of the infusion unit comprises an active formation which
   when the infusion chamber is closed interferes with the said sealing ring such as to deform
20 it radially against the said annular end formation of the cartridge, for separating the
   infusion chamber from the discharge means in a liquid-tight manner.
   11.    System for the preparation of a beverage, comprising in combination at least one
   cartridge according to one or more of Claims 1 to 9 and a machine according to Claim 10.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
