                                         ABTRACT
A device for collecting animal excrement from the ground, the device comprising a
receptacle configured to receive and hold the excrement, wherein the receptacle is formed
with a sieve through which particulate matter from the ground which is received by the
receptacle during collection of the excrement can be sifted from the receptacle.

            3/7
   3
               5b    a
2d     2
                       2b
     4            2a
         FIGURE 3

                                                  1
                      APPARATUS FOR COLLECTING ANIMAL EXCREMENT
   The invention relates to a device and apparatus for collecting animal excrement, such as
   horse or dog excrement.
 5
   Various animal stool collection devices have existed for a number of years. These devices
   typically comprise a scoop, for receiving and holding the excrement and often further
   comprise a sweeper, for pushing the excrement into the scoop, and are commonly termed
   "poop scoops" or "pooper scoopers".
10
   Embodiments of the present invention seek to provide an improved scoop and device for
   collecting animal excrement.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a device for
15 collecting animal excrement from the ground, the device comprising a receptacle
   configured to receive and hold the excrement, wherein the receptacle is formed with a
   sieve through which particulate matter from the ground which is received by the receptacle
   during collection of the excrement can be sifted from the receptacle.
20 Preferably, the receptacle is moulded.        Preferably, the receptacle is of single-piece
   construction. The receptacle according to the invention can thus be resilient and durable.
   Preferably, the receptacle is plastic.      The plastic is preferably recyclable, and may
   comprise, for example, linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE).
25 Preferably, said receptacle comprises a base or floor arranged to support from below the
   excrement when held by the receptacle. Preferably, said device is configured to rest on a
   ground surface and the base or floor is arranged such that an upper surface thereof is
   substantially parallel to the ground surface when the device rests on the ground surface.
30 In the device according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, said base or
   floor defines is configured with said sieve.
   In the device according to an alternative embodiment of the present invention, a rear wall
   of the receptacle is configured with said sieve. The device of that embodiment may be

                                                   2
   operated to tilt the receptacle such that rear wall faces downwardly whereby the particulate
   matter can be sifted from the receptacle.
   Preferably, said device includes a handle.      Preferably, the handle is arranged to extend
 5 upwardly from the receptacle when the receptacle rests on a flat ground surface whereby
   an upper end of the handle can be grasped by a user such that the device can be operated
   by the user. Preferably, the handle is of a length such that the device is operable by the
   user when standing. The handle may be of a length such that the device is operable by the
   user when standing substantially upright.
10
   Preferably, the device comprises a scoop.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
   collecting animal excrement from the ground, comprising:
15         a device, comprising a receptacle configured to receive and hold the excrement;
   and
           a sweeper operable to sweep the excrement such that it is received by the
   receptacle.
20 Preferably, the device accords with said first aspect.
   Preferably, said sweeper is configured to be mounted to said device.        The sweeper and
   device thus may thus be able to be, advantageously, kept together in a compact
   configuration.
25
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the sweeper is configured to be mounted to the
   receptacle.   Preferably, the sweeper and the receptacle are provided with mating or
   complementary connector portions whereby the sweeper is mountable to the receptacle.
   The connector portions may comprise male and female portions.
30
   Preferably, the sweeper comprises a sweeper head and a handle. Preferably, the handle of
   the sweeper is arranged so as to extend upwardly from the sweeper head when the sweeper
   is mounted to the device and the device rests on a flat ground surface whereby an upper
   end of that handle can be grasped by a user such that the sweeper can be grasped by a user

                                                  3
   so as to be removed from the device and operated by the user. Preferably, the handle of
   the sweeper is of a length such that the sweeper is operable by the user when standing.
   That handle may be of a length such that the sweeper is operable by the user when standing
   substantially upright.
 5
   Preferably, the sweeper comprises a shaft defining said handle. Preferably, a lower end of
   the shaft defines the connector portion of the sweeper. Preferably, the connector portion of
   the device comprises an aperture into which said lower end is receivable such that the
   sweeper is mounted to the device. Preferably, the sweeper head is connected to the shaft at
10 a position above said lower end.
   According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   collecting animal excrement from the ground, the method comprising effecting receipt of
   the excrement by the receptacle of a device according to the first aspect and thereafter
15 sifting said particulate matter from the receptacle through said sieve.
   In one embodiment of the invention, effecting receipt of the excrement by the receptacle
   comprises scooping the excrement with the receptacle.         In another embodiment of the
   invention, the device is that of the apparatus according to the second aspect, and effecting
20 receipt of the excrement by the receptacle comprises operating the sweeper to sweep the
   excrement such that it is received by the receptacle.
   Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of non-limiting
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
25
           Figure 1 is a rear perspective view of an animal excrement collection apparatus
   according to a first preferred embodiment of the invention, in which a sweeper of the
   apparatus is mounted to a scoop of the apparatus so as to assume a stored condition;
           Figure 2 is a side elevation view of the apparatus;
30         Figure 3 is a front upper perspective of the scoop;
           Figure 4 is a rear lower perspective of the scoop;
           Figure 5 is a top elevation view of the scoop, showing a mount for the sweeper; and
           Figure 6 is a rear upper perspective view of the sweeper, and
           Figure 7 is a sweeper according to an alternative embodiment of the invention.

                                                     4
   An animal excrement collection apparatus 1 according to a preferred embodiment of the
   present invention is illustrated in Figures 1 and 2. The apparatus 1 includes scoop 3 and a
   sweeper 9 which is mounted to the scoop 3, so as to be less prone to being misplaced or
   otherwise becoming separated from the scoop 3, and is releasable from the scoop 3 to be
 5 operable to sweep animal stools, e.g. horse stools, into the scoop 3.
   The scoop 3 comprises a handle 5 and, connected to a lower end of the handle 5 a
   receptacle 2 for holding the stool(s), the receptacle 2 having a bottom wall or base 2a,
   lateral side walls 2b and a top wall 2c which together define an opening 2d at a forward
10 end of the receptacle, as well a rear wall 2e. The bottom wall or base 2a is configured with
   a series of apertures 4 therethrough, thereby taking the form of a sieve, the apertures 4
   being sized and spaced such that a stool supported on the base/bottom wall 2a will be
   retained on the base/bottom wall 2a though particulate matter, such as dirt, sand or sawdust
   for instance, received by the receptacle during scooping of the stool, can pass through
15 apertures 4 (by gently shaking the scoop 3, via the handle 5,          if necessary) and thus be
   sifted from the receptacle 2.
   The receptacle 2 is a unitary piece moulded from plastic, whereby it is, advantageously,
   strong and durable.
20
   The handle 5 comprises spaced apart upright elongate sections 5a, 5b, a lower end of each
   of which is fixed to the receptacle 2, and a grip section 6, interconnecting upper ends of the
   sections 5a, 5b, an exterior (which may be defined by a sleeve) of which is formed from
   moulded plastic, for both user comfort and limiting slippage. The exterior of the grip
25 section 6 may be shaped to complement the hand or fingers of a person grasping it, so as to
   form an ergonomic fit therewith.         The handle 5 is arranged such that spacing of the
   sections 5a, 5b, is along an axis parallel to the direction in which the receptacle 2 is moved
   (via the handle 5 along/through the ground to scoop up the stool(s)).            As a result, the
   handle 5 is relatively stiff such that it will not deflect appreciably under bending loads.
30
   The scoop 3 includes a mount 7, which in the present embodiment is formed on the rear
   wall of the receptacle, the mount 7 being configured in the form of an eye. The function of
   the mount 7 will be described in further detail below.

                                                  5
   The sweeper 9 includes an elongate handle 10 having a shaft 1la and a grip 1 lb at an
   upper end of the shaft 11 a which may be defined by a sleeve and is formed from moulded
   plastic, for both user comfort and limiting slippage, and which may be shaped to
   complement the hand or fingers of a person grasping it, so as to form an ergonomic fit
 5 therewith.    The sweeper 9 further includes a sweeping head 12 which in the present
   embodiment comprises a paddle but could, without departure from the invention, comprise
   another implement - e.g. a brush. The head 12 includes a collar portion 12a via which it is
   secured to the shaft 11a at a position slightly above a lower end thereof, whereby that
   lower end is exposed in order to be receivable in the aperture of the eye, the aperture
10 having a cross-sectional configuration complementary to that of the shaft 11 a lower end 13
   (the configurations in the present embodiment being circular), such that the receipt of the
   lower end 13 in the aperture 12b is snug and the sweeper 9 is mounted to the scoop 3, with
   the handle 10 extending adjacent and substantially parallel to the handle 5
15 The paddle 12 is angled relative to the longitudinal axis of the shaft, so as to assume an
   inclined orientation during use of the sweeper 9, which orientation facilitates sweeping of
   the stool(s) into/onto the receptacle by the user when holding the scoop close to his or her
   body. In the case of the head instead being configured in the form of a brush, the brush
   would also desirably be likewise angled, for the same purpose.
20
   As will be clear from Figure 2, owing to the paddle 12 being angled relative to the
   shaft 11 a, there is a clearance between the paddle 12 and body portion of the eye when the
   sweeper is mounted to the scoop.
25 The user, grasping the scoop with one hand via the grip section 6, and grasping the
   sweeper 9 with the other via the grip 1 lb positions the receptacle 2 and sweeper head 12
   such that the stool(s) is/are between the receptacle opening 2d and the head 12, then draws
   the head 12 towards the receptacle 2, and/or the receptacle towards the head, such that the
   head 12 urges the stool(s), and, if present, particulate matter on the ground adjacent to the
30 stool(s), into the receptacle 2. The user then lifts the scoop 3 such that the receptacle 2 is
   clear of the ground, in order that particulate matter collected in the receptacle 2 can pass
   through the base/bottom wall 2a and thus be sifted from the receptacle 2 (the user gently
   shaking the scoop 3, via the handle 5, to this end if necessary) as mentioned above.

                                                  6
   Figure 7 shows a further embodiment of sweeper 9 comprising a lip 12c at the edge of
   head 12. This lip 12c can assist a user, when holding the receptacle adjacent his/her body,
   to collect excrement with a sweeping motion in the direction of the body of the user to
   draw the excrement into the receptacle.
 5
   In another embodiment of the invention, the sweeper is omitted, whereby the apparatus
   comprises solely the scoop, substantially as described and illustrated though not including
   the eye for mounting the sweeper. The user, grasping the apparatus of that embodiment
   via the grip section 6, operates the apparatus by drawing the receptacle 2 along the ground
10 towards the stool(s) such that a leading edge defined by the base/bottom wall 2a of the
   receptacle at the open end thereof passes under the stool(s), and, if present, particulate
   matter on the ground adjacent to the stool(s), such that the receptacle 2 receives the
   stool(s)/particulate matter. The user can subsequently remove particulate matter from the
   receptacle in the manner described in the preceding paragraph.
15
   While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should
   be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way of
   limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
   form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
20 invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
   exemplary embodiments.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
25 be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
   but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
   or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
30 admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived
   from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
   endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                            7
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A device for collecting animal excrement from the ground, the device comprising a
      receptacle configured to receive and hold the excrement, wherein the receptacle is
      formed with a sieve through which particulate matter from the ground which is
      received by the receptacle during collection of the excrement can be sifted from the
      receptacle.
  2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the receptacle is moulded.
  3.  A device according to either one of claims 1 and 2, wherein the receptacle is of
      single-piece construction.
  4. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the receptacle comprises a
      base or floor arranged to support from below the excrement when held by the
      receptacle.
  5. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, configured to rest on a ground
      surface, wherein the base or floor is arranged such that an upper surface thereof is
      substantially parallel to the ground surface when the device rests on the ground
      surface.
  6. A device according to either one of claims 4 and 5, wherein the base or floor is
      configured with said sieve.
  7. A device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, including a handle.
   8. A device according to claim 7, wherein the handle is arranged to extend upwardly
      from the receptacle when the receptacle rests on a flat ground surface whereby an
      upper end of the handle can be grasped by a user such that the device can be operated
      by the user.

                                            8
9. A device according to either one of claims 7 and 8, wherein the handle is of a length
    such that the device is operable by the user when standing.
10. A device according to claim 9, wherein the handle is of a length such that the device
    is operable by the user when standing substantially upright.
11. A device according to any one of claims I to 10, being a scoop.
12. An apparatus for collecting animal excrement from the ground, comprising:
            a device, comprising a receptacle configured to receive and hold the
    excrement; and
            a sweeper operable to sweep the excrement such that it is received by the
    receptacle.
13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the device accords with any one of
    claims I to 11.
14. An apparatus according to either one of claims 13 and 14, wherein the sweeper is
    configured to be mounted to the device.
15. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the sweeper is configured to be mounted
    to the receptacle.
16. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the sweeper and the receptacle are
    provided with mating or complementary connector portions whereby the sweeper is
    mountable to the receptacle.
17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the connector portions comprise male
    and female portions.
18. An apparatus according to either one of claims 16 and 17, wherein the sweeper
    comprises a sweeper head and a shaft, the shaft defining a handle, and a lower end of
    the shaft defines the connector portion of the sweeper.

                                           9
19. A method of collecting animal excrement from the ground, the method comprising
    effecting receipt of the excrement by the receptacle of a device according to any one
    of claims 1 to 11 and thereafter sifting said particulate matter from the receptacle
    through said sieve.
20. A method according to claim 19, wherein the device is that of the apparatus according
    to any one of claims 12 to 18, and effecting receipt of the excrement by the receptacle
    comprises using the sweeper to sweep the excrement such that it is received by the
    receptacle.

                        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                          9
           12
                                                1
                                               6
                                                       1/7
FIGURE 1
                                     5
                    3
                2

                               2/7
<removed-date>
                                     6
                                          5
                                                   3
               9
<removed-apn>
                          5a
                          5b
                          2
                                              2c
              12
                   2e
                    2b                                 2d
                                     2a
                         FIGURE 2

                                  3/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   3
                                     5b         5a
              2d           2e
                                                         2c
                                                          2b
                                                     2
                       4
                                           2a
                                FIGURE 3

                                            4/7
<removed-date>
                                                          6
<removed-apn>
                                                                  5a
                                                     5b
                                 3
                        2
                                     2c
                                                                       7
              2d
                                                                           2e
                   2b
                                                              4
                            2a
                                          FIGURE 4

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    2c
           2a
                4                                   5/7
FIGURE 5
                                             7
                                      6

                        6/7
<removed-date>                         11b
                                                9
<removed-apn>
              10              11a
                                    12b
                                          12a
                                            12
                   13
                   FIGURE 6

                          7/7
<removed-date>
                                  11b
<removed-apn>
                                        9
                   11a
              10
                                 12b
                                12a
                                 12
                    12c
                    FIGURE 7

