                                                 25
ABSTRACT (Figure 3)
A refrigerated drop box (1) comprising a housing (2) extendible through an opening in a fixture
such as a wall of a house, and including a first open end (20) and a second open end (21). The
drop box (1) has two compartments (30, 31) located within the housing (2) for containing goods
and being accessible from both the first and second open ends (20, 21). The drop box (1)
includes a first movable door (7) for sealing closed the first open end (20) and a second
movable door (8) for sealing closed the second open end (21). The drop box (1) includes a
mounting system (10) for securely mounting the housing (2) relative to the opening such that
the first door (7) is accessible from only one side of the fixture and the second door (8) is
accessible from only a second side of the fixture. The drop box (1) includes a locking
mechanism (9) in the form of a mechanical or electronic lock for selectively locking the first
door (7) in the closed position. The drop box (1) can be partly located within a garage or
beneath a kitchen bench, for example.

                 Cj
 (lye
   o \    Ln
              N8
3      0
    65)C~
             80

                                                    1
DROP BOX
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention relates to a drop box. In particular, the invention relates to a
lockable drop box for receiving and storing goods.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]       It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
[0003]       Drop boxes for receiving and securely storing delivered items such as letters and
small packages are well known. However, it is often the case that larger items cannot be
delivered in a secure manner and require the presence of the recipient at the time of delivery. It
is often the case that perishable items cannot be delivered to drop boxes as they are neither
insulated nor refrigerated. It is also often the case that goods deposited in a drop box located
outside of a house cannot be accessed from within the house.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0004]       The present invention is directed to a drop box, which may at least partially
overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer with a
useful or commercial choice.
[0005]       According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a drop box
comprising:
[0006]       a housing extendible through an opening in a fixture such as a wall, and comprising
a first open end and a second open end;
[0007]       at least one compartment located within the housing for containing one or more
goods and being accessible from both the first and second open ends;
[0008]       a first movable door mounted relative to the housing for sealing closed the first
open end;
[0009]       a second movable door mounted relative to the housing for sealing closed the

                                                  2
second open end;
[0010]        a mounting system for securely mounting the housing relative to the opening such
that the first door is accessible from only one side of the fixture and the second door is
accessible from only a second side of the fixture; and
[0011]        a locking mechanism for selectively locking the first door in the closed position.
[0012]        The term "drop box" as used herein means a secured container or receptacle into
which items/goods such as groceries, parcels or any other suitable type of perishable or non
perishable item or items can be deposited. The term "drop box" should be considered as
including within its scope terms such as "grocery receiver", "parcel receiver" and "parcel drop
box".
[0013]        The housing can be of any suitable size, shape and construction, and can be made of
any suitable material or materials. For example, the housing can be made of metal such as
stainless steel, mild steel or aluminium. For example, the housing can be made of plastics
material.
[0014]        Although the housing can be of any suitable shape, preferably the housing is
substantially rectangular or cuboid, having a top wall, a bottom wall and a pair of sidewalls.
Although the housing can be of any suitable size, preferably the housing is sized to be partly
installed in a kitchen or garage, or any other place of convenience. In some embodiments, the
dimensions of the housing allow it to be housed in a kitchen cupboard or under a benchtop.
[0015]        The at least one compartment located within the housing can have any suitable
storage capacity. For example, the storage capacity can be similar to that of a shopping
cart/trolley.
[0016]        The housing can have one compartment. The housing can have more than one
compartment. The number of compartments and the shape of those compartments will depend
on the nature of the item/good or items/goods that are to be stored. For example, in some
embodiments the housing can have a single compartment for storing a large or bulky good or
goods. In some embodiments the housing can have two compartments, three compartments,
four compartments, five compartments or even more compartments. These different
compartments can be used to store different types of goods. For example, the goods may be
cold or frozen goods, fresh goods (e.g. fresh produce), or non-perishable goods that do not

                                                  3
require refrigeration but are best kept separately from other goods (e.g. non-food items).
[0017]       The first and second movable doors can be of any suitable size, shape and
construction, and can be made of any suitable material or materials. The shape and size of the
doors will, in part, depend on the shape and size of the housing.
[0018]       The first and second doors can each be mounted relative to the housing in any
suitable way such that the doors can each move between a closed sealed position, whereby the
open end of the housing is sealed closed, and an open position whereby one or more goods can
be loaded into or unloaded from the at least one compartment via the open end. In some
embodiments the first and/or second doors can each rotate, swivel or otherwise move between
the open and closed positions about a vertically extending axis. In other embodiments, the first
and/or second doors can each rotate or swivel or otherwise move between the open and closed
positions about a substantially horizontally extending axis.
[0019]       The first and second doors can each comprise a door panel that may or may not be
insulated. In preferred embodiments, the door panel has an outer skin containing an insulation
core, much like a domestic refrigerator.
[0020]       The first door can be part of a door assembly. The second door can be part of a door
assembly. The first and second door assemblies can each comprise a handle, facilitating
opening and closing of the door panels.
[0021]       The first and second door assemblies can each include a hinge system enabling
movement of the first and second movable doors relative to the housing. The hinge system can
be of any suitable design. Preferably a first hinge of the hinge system mounts one end of the
door panel to one part of the housing, and a second hinge of the hinge system mounts another
end of the door panel to another part of the housing.
[0022]       In some embodiments, when in the closed sealed position, the first and/or second
door panels can recess within the housing. That is, each door panel can sit flush with the
respective wall of the housing.
[0023]       The drop box can comprise insulation for insulating the at least one compartment.
In some embodiments, one or more walls of the housing itself can be insulated. For example,
internal wall surfaces of the housing can be insulated. For example, the housing can have an
outer skin containing an insulation core, much like a domestic refrigerator.

                                                  4
[0024]        The drop box can comprise partitioning for partitioning the at least one
compartment into two or more separate compartments. In some embodiments the partitioning is
fixedly connected to the housing. In other embodiments the partitioning is removable from the
housing. For example, in some embodiments the partitioning can be in the form of a shelf
extending between the sidewalls of the housing and provide an upper compartment that is
separated from a lower compartment.
[0025]        The partitioning is preferably made of food grade materials, such as metal or
plastics material. In some embodiments the partitioning can be insulated so as to insulate
certain compartments. In some embodiments the partitioning can be insulated so as to insulate
the housing.
[0026]        In some embodiments the partitioning can be in the form of a framework, such as a
mesh framework or framework of panels connected to one another. The partitioning can
comprise one or more vertically extending panels extending adjacent each sidewall of the
housing. The partitioning can comprise one or more horizontally extending panels extending
adjacent the top wall of the housing. The partitioning can comprise one or more horizontally
extending panels extending adjacent the bottom wall of the housing. The partitioning can
comprise one or more horizontally extending panels extending between the sidewalls of the
housing and between the top and bottom walls of the housing. One or more of the panels can be
made of metal or plastics material. One or more of the panels can have an outer skin containing
an insulation core. The outer skin can be made of metal or plastics material and the insulation
core can be made of foam. The framework may be welded or connected together. The
framework may be fixed together by way of mechanical fasteners, eg, screws or bolts, to
facilitate repairs and maintenance.
[0027]        The partitioning can comprise facias or other decorative or functional finishes.
These can be in the form of strips or plates. These may be welded or otherwise fixed to other
components of the partitioning or housing. For example, these may be fixed to other
components of the partitioning or housing by way of mechanical fasteners, eg, screws or bolts,
to facilitate repairs and maintenance.
[0028]        The drop box can comprise a slidable drawer or tray system that is located within
the housing. The slidable drawer or tray system can be of any suitable size, shape and
construction, and can be made of any suitable material or materials. The slidable drawer or tray

                                                  5
system can comprise one or more drawers or trays that are accessible via the first and second
movable doors from either open end of the housing.
[0029]       In some embodiments, the slidable drawer or tray system comprises one drawer or
tray. In some embodiments, the slidable drawer or tray system comprises two or more slidable
drawers or trays. In yet other embodiments, the slidable drawer or tray system comprises three
or more slidable drawers or trays. The number of drawers or trays will depend on the nature of
the good or goods that are to be contained within the housing.
[0030]       The drawer or tray can be made of food grade metal or plastics material. The drawer
or tray body can be of rectangular or cuboid design. The drawer or tray body can have a bottom
wall as well as upstanding sidewalls. The drawer or tray body can each provide one or more
storage compartments. If two or more storage compartments, then the drawer or tray body can
comprise one or more internal dividing walls.
[0031]       The slidable drawer or tray system can comprise one or more handles facilitating
movement of the drawer or tray body relative to the partitioning or housing. For example,
opposing ends of each drawer or tray body can each have a handle.
[0032]       The drawer or tray body can be slid relative to the housing or partitioning in any
suitable way such that one or more goods can be loaded or unloaded from the drawer or tray. In
some embodiments, the drawer or tray body can rest on the lower wall of the housing or
horizontal component of the partitioning (ie. shelf) and slide when pulled by the handle. In
some embodiments, the housing or partitioning can be fitted with runners or slide rails that
enable the drawer or tray body to be slid relative to the housing or partitioning, preferably to a
fixed point. The runners or slide rails can employ slider bearings or a tongue in groove
arrangement, for example.
[0033]       Each door assembly can comprise one or more seals or gaskets to ensure that the
first and second doors each seal the first and second open ends of the housing. The seal or
gasket (preferably made of rubber) can extend between each door panel and the housing or
partitioning.
[0034]       The housing can be extended through any type of opening in any type of fixture. In
some embodiments the housing can be extended through a pre-cut opening in a wall of a
domestic dwelling, commercial residence, shed or bam, for example. In some embodiments the

                                                  6
housing can be extended through a window of a domestic dwelling, commercial residence, shed
or bam, for example. In some embodiments the housing can be extended through a pre-cut
opening in a boundary wall or fence of a domestic or commercial property, for example.
[0035]       In particularly preferred embodiments, the opening is in an external wall of a
dwelling, particularly a residential dwelling. As already mentioned, preferably the housing is
sized to be partly installed in a kitchen or garage, or any other place of convenience. In some
embodiments, preferably the dimensions of the housing allow it to be housed in a kitchen
cupboard or under a benchtop.
[0036]       In some embodiments the first door is accessible only from an exterior of the
domestic or commercial dwelling. In some embodiments the second door is only accessible
from an interior of the domestic or commercial dwelling.
[0037]       The mounting system for securely mounting the housing relative to the opening can
be of any suitable size, shape and construction, and can be made of any suitable material or
materials. In some embodiments the mounting system can comprise one or more mounting
brackets, frames, gussets, flashings, mechanical fasteners, chemical adhesives and/or sealants
that connect the housing to the fixture. Mechanical fasteners, eg, screws or bolts, may facilitate
repairs and maintenance. In some embodiments the mounting system provides a weatherproof
and/or insect proof finish. In some embodiments, the mounting system provides a decorative
finish.
[0038]       The drop box can further comprise components for providing weatherproofing,
insect proofing or decorative finishes. These include, for example, decorative plates, fascias,
protective hoods, protective awnings, rubber seals etc. Typically the first door would need to be
weather and insect proofed, whereas the internal second door would not normally require
protection from the weather but would nevertheless require insect proofing.
[0039]       In some embodiments the mounting system can comprise a first gusset, fascia,
frame or flashing that extends around the housing, a second gusset, fascia, frame or flashing
that also extends around the housing, and mechanical fasteners for securing the first and second
gussets, fascias, frames or flashings to both sides of the fixture. The gussets, fascias, frames or
flashings can be welded to the housing or otherwise connected to the housing. The first and
second gussets, fascias, frames or flashings can be bolted together using, for example,
mechanical fasteners such as interscrews.

                                                  7
[0040]       The locking mechanism for selectively locking the first door in the closed position
can be of any suitable size, shape and construction, and can be made of any suitable material or
materials. The locking mechanism can be, for example, a mechanical locking device or an
electronic locking device, or a combination of both.
[0041]       The locking mechanism can be a mechanical locking device such as a keyed or
combination padlock that securely locks the first door and fixture, mounting system, housing or
other together.
[0042]       The locking mechanism can be a keyed lock that securely locks the first door and
fixture/mounting system, housing or other together.
[0043]       The locking mechanism can be an electronic lock comprising an electronic keypad.
Upon entering a preset digital code, the first door can be opened.
[0044]       The locking mechanism can be an electronic lock that can be opened using a swipe
card.
[0045]       The locking mechanism can be an electronic lock that can be opened using a
wireless device such as a smart phone.
[0046]       The drop box can comprise another locking mechanism for selectively locking the
second door.
[0047]       The drop box can be refrigerated or not. In some embodiments the drop box can
comprise a refrigeration unit for cooling or chilling the at least one compartment or sub
compartment thereof. Any suitable type of refrigeration unit can be used. The refrigeration unit
can be powered by main supply.
[0048]       In some embodiments a refrigeration unit can be connected to the housing and a
manifold can circulate cooled or chilled air to the at least one compartment or sub-compartment
thereof.
[0049]       According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
installing a drop box as defined according to the first aspect of the invention, said method
comprising the step of:
[0050]       extending the housing through an opening in a fixture; and

                                                 8
[0051]      securely mounting the housing relative to the opening using the mounting system.
[0052]      The method can comprise a step of installing the housing in a kitchen or garage, or
any other place of convenience, including within a kitchen cupboard or under a benchtop.
[0053]      According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
delivering goods to the drop box as defined according to the first aspect of the present
invention, said method comprising the steps of:
[0054]      unlocking the first door;
[0055]      placing one or more goods within the at least one compartment; and
[0056]      locking the first door using the locking mechanism.
[0057]      The second and third aspects can have features as described for the first aspect of
the invention.
[0058]      The first door can be unlocked by the goods deliverer using a key, electronic pin,
swipe card or smart phone, for example.
[0059]      According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a drop box
comprising:
[0060]      a housing mountable to a fixture and comprising at least one opening;
[0061]      at least one compartment located within the housing for containing one or more
goods and being accessible by way of the at least one opening;
[0062]      at least one movable door or drawer mounted relative to the housing for sealing
closed the at least one opening, wherein the at least one movable door or drawer is movable
between an open position and sealed closed position;
[0063]      a mounting system for securely mounting the housing relative to the fixture; and
[0064]      a locking mechanism for selectively locking the at least one movable door or
drawer in the sealed closed position.
[0065]      The housing can be of any suitable size, shape and construction, and can be made of
any suitable material or materials. For example, the housing can be made of metal such as

                                                  9
stainless steel, mild steel or aluminium. For example, the housing can be made of plastics
material.
[0066]        Although the housing can be of any suitable shape, preferably the housing is
substantially rectangular or cuboid, having a top wall, preferably a bottom wall, and sidewalls.
[0067]        The at least one compartment located within the housing can have any suitable
storage capacity. For example, the storage capacity can be similar to that of a shopping
cart/trolley.
[0068]        The housing can have one compartment. The housing can have more than one
compartment. The number of compartments and the shape of those compartments will depend
on the nature of the good or goods that are to be stored. For example, in some embodiments the
housing can have a single compartment for storing a large or bulky good or goods. In some
embodiments the housing can have two compartments, three compartments, four compartments,
five compartments or even more compartments. These different compartments can be used to
store different types of goods. For example, the goods may be cold or frozen goods, fresh goods
(e.g. fresh produce), or non-perishable goods that do not require refrigeration but are best kept
separately from other goods (e.g. non-food items).
[0069]        The drop box can comprise insulation for insulating the at least one compartment.
In some embodiments, one or more walls of the housing itself can be insulated. For example,
internal wall surfaces of the housing can be insulated. For example, the housing can have an
outer skin containing an insulation core, much like a domestic refrigerator.
[0070]        The drop box can comprise partitioning for partitioning the at least one
compartment into two or more separate compartments. In some embodiments the partitioning is
fixedly connected to the housing. In other embodiments the partitioning is removable from the
housing. For example, in some embodiments the partitioning can be in the form of a shelf
extending between the sidewalls of the housing and provide an upper compartment that is
separated from a lower compartment.
[0071]        The partitioning is preferably made of food grade materials, such as metal or
plastics material. In some embodiments the partitioning can be insulated so as to insulate
certain compartments. In some embodiments the partitioning can be insulated so as to insulate
the housing.

                                                 10
[0072]        In some embodiments the partitioning can be in the form of a framework, such as a
mesh framework or framework of panels connected to one another. The partitioning can
comprise a respective vertically extending panel extending adjacent each sidewall of the
housing. The partitioning can comprise a horizontally extending panel extending adjacent the
top wall of the housing. The partitioning can comprise a horizontally extending panel extending
adjacent the bottom wall of the housing. The partitioning can comprise a horizontally extending
panel extending between the sidewalls of the housing and between the top and bottom walls of
the housing. Each panel can be made of metal or plastics material. Each panel can have an outer
skin containing an insulation core. The outer skin can be made of metal or plastics material and
the insulation core can be made of foam.
[0073]        The at least one movable door or drawer can be of any suitable size, shape and
construction, and can be made of any suitable material or materials. The shape and size of the
door or drawer will, in part, depend on the shape and size of the housing and/or opening.
[0074]        The drop box can comprise any suitable number of doors or drawers. The drop box
can comprise one, two, three, four, five or more doors. The drop box can comprise one, two,
three, four, five or more drawers.
[0075]        The number of doors and drawers will depend on the nature of the good or goods
that are to be contained within the housing.
[0076]        The at least one door or drawer can be mounted relative to the housing in any
suitable way such that the door or drawer can move between a closed sealed position, whereby
the at least one opening is sealed closed, and an open position whereby one or more goods can
be loaded into or unloaded from the at least one compartment via the at least one opening. In
some embodiments, the door or drawer can rotate, swivel, pivot, slide or otherwise move
between the open and closed positions.
[0077]        The door can comprise a door panel that may or may not be insulated. In preferred
embodiments, the door panel has an outer skin containing an insulation core, much like a
domestic refrigerator.
[0078]        The drawer can comprise a drawer body that may or may not be insulated. In
preferred embodiments, the drawer body has an outer skin containing an insulation core, much
like a domestic refrigerator.

                                                  11
[0079]        The door or drawer can be part of a door assembly or drawer assembly. The door or
drawer assembly can comprise a handle, facilitating opening and closing of the door panel or
drawer body.
[0080]        The door assembly can include a hinge system enabling movement of the door
relative to the housing. The hinge system can be of any suitable design. Preferably a first hinge
of the hinge system mounts one end of the door panel to one part of the housing, and a second
hinge of the hinge system mounts another end of the door panel to another part of the housing.
[0081]        In some embodiments, when in the closed sealed position, the door panel and/or
drawer can recess within the housing.
[0082]        The drawer can be made of food grade metal or plastics material. The drawer body
can be of rectangular or cuboid design. The drawer body can have a bottom wall as well as
upstanding sidewalls. The drawer body can provide one or more storage compartments. If two
or more storage compartments, then the drawer body can comprise one or more internal
dividing walls.
[0083]        The drawer or tray system can comprise one or more handles facilitating movement
of the drawer or tray body relative to the partitioning or housing. For example, opposing ends of
each drawer or tray body can each have a handle.
[0084]        The drawer body can be slid relative to the housing or partitioning within the
housing in any suitable way such that one or more goods can be loaded or unloaded from the
drawer. In some embodiments, the drawer body can rest on the lower wall of the housing or
horizontal component of the partitioning (ie. shelf) and slide when pulled by the handle. In
some embodiments, the housing or partitioning can be fitted with runners or slide rails that
enable the drawer body to be slid relative to the housing or partitioning, preferably to a fixed
point. The runners or slide rails can employ slider bearings or a tongue in groove arrangement,
for example.
[0085]        The door assembly or drawer assembly can comprise one or more seals or gaskets
to ensure that the door or drawer seal the opening of the housing. The seal or gasket can extend
between each door panel or drawer body and the housing or partitioning.
[0086]        The mounting system for securely mounting the housing relative to the fixture can
be of any suitable size, shape and construction, and can be made of any suitable material or

                                                 12
materials. In some embodiments the mounting system can comprise one or more mounting
brackets, frames, mechanical fasteners, chemical adhesives and/or sealants that connect the
housing to the fixture. In some embodiments the mounting system provides a weatherproof
and/or insect proof finish. In some embodiments, the mounting system provides a decorative
finish.
[0087]       The fixture can be, for example, a horizontally extending wall, a vertically
extending wall, a concrete slab or other type of prepared surface.
[0088]       The locking mechanism for selectively locking the door or drawer in the closed
position can be of any suitable size, shape and construction, and can be made of any suitable
material or materials. The locking mechanism can be, for example, a mechanical locking device
or an electronic locking device, or a combination of both.
[0089]       The locking mechanism can be a mechanical locking device such as a keyed or
combination padlock that securely locks the door or drawer and fixture, mounting system,
housing or other together.
[0090]       The locking mechanism can be a keyed lock that securely locks the door or drawer
and fixture, mounting system, housing or other together.
[0091]       The locking mechanism can be an electronic lock comprising an electronic keypad.
Upon entering a preset digital code, the door or drawer can be opened.
[0092]       The locking mechanism can be an electronic lock that can be opened using a swipe
card.
[0093]       The locking mechanism can be an electronic lock that can be opened using a
wireless device such as a smart phone.
[0094]       The one locking mechanism can be used to lock a single door or drawer.
Alternatively the one locking mechanism can be used to simultaneously lock all doors or
drawers of the drop box.
[0095]       The drop box can be refrigerated or not. In some embodiments the drop box can
comprise a refrigeration unit for cooling or chilling the at least one compartment. Any suitable
type of refrigeration unit can be used. The refrigeration unit can be powered by main supply.

                                                   13
[0096]       In some embodiments a refrigeration unit can be connected to the housing and a
manifold can circulate cooled or chilled air to the at least one compartment or sub-compartment
thereof. In some embodiments the refrigeration unit can be contained within the housing
adjacent the least one compartment or sub-compartment thereof.
[0097]       Preferably the drop box is weatherproofed and/or insect proofed such that the drop
box can function normally when exposed to the elements/different weather conditions.
[0098]       Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0099]       Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the
following drawings, in which:
[00100]      Figure 1 is a perspective view of a drop box that is mountable relative to a fixture
such as a wall, according to an embodiment of the present invention;
[00101]      Figure 2 is another perspective view of the drop box shown in figure 1;
[00102]      Figure 3 is a detailed exploded view of the drop box shown in figure 2;
[00103]      Figure 4 is a perspective view of a drop box that is mountable relative to a fixture
such as a wall, according to another embodiment of the present invention;
[00104]      Figure 5 is another perspective view of the drop box shown in figure 4; and
[00105]      Figure 6 is a perspective view of a freestanding drop box according to another
embodiment of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00106]      In the figures like reference numerals refer to like features.
[00107]      Referring first to figures 1 to 3 there is shown a drop box 1 having a housing 2
extendible through an opening in a fixture, a main compartment 3 located within the housing 2
for containing goods, partitioning 4, two drawers 5, 6, a first exterior door 7 mounted to the
housing 2 for sealing closed a first open end 20 of the housing 2, a second internal door 8

                                                  14
mounted to the housing 2 for sealing closed a second open end 21 of the housing 2, a locking
mechanism 9 for locking the first exterior door 7, and a mounting system 10 for securely
mounting the housing 2 relative to the opening.
[00108]      The housing 2 is substantially rectangular, having a top wall 23, a bottom wall 24
and a pair of sidewalls 25. The housing 2 is sized to be partly installed in a kitchen or garage,
such as in a kitchen cupboard or under a benchtop (not shown). The housing 2 is made of metal,
such as stainless steel, mild steel or aluminium. The housing 2 can be made of plastics material.
[00109]      The main compartment 3 has a storage capacity similar to that of a standard
shopping cart/trolley.
[00110]      The partitioning 4 partitions the main compartment into separate upper 30 and
lower 31 compartments. The partitioning 4 is in the form of a framework of panels connected to
one another. The partitioning 4 includes panels 40 extending adjacent each sidewall 25 of the
housing 2, a horizontally extending panel 41 extending adjacent the top wall 23 of the housing
2, a horizontally extending panel 42 extending adjacent the bottom wall 24 of the housing 2,
and a horizontally extending panel 43 (ie. shelf or divider) extending between the sidewalls 40
of the housing 2 and between the top and bottom walls 23, 24 of the housing 2. Each panel has
an outer metal skin containing a foam insulation core.
[00111]      The partitioning 4 is welded together as well as to the housing 2. The partitioning 4
ends just short of each open end 20, 21 of the housing 2. The partitioning 4 includes a faceplate
45a, 45b at each end of the panels, as best seen in figure 3.
[00112]      The partitioning 4 serves to insulate the housing 2 as well as the upper and lower
compartments 30, 31.
[00113]      The first and second doors 7, 8 are each part of a door assembly. Each door
assembly includes an insulated door panel 70, 80, a handle (not shown) to facilitate opening and
closing of the door panel 70, 80, a hinge system 71, 81 with upper and lower hinges (like for a
conventional fridge) enabling rotation of the first and second doors 7, 8 relative to the housing
2, and a rubber seal/gasket 73, 83. The hinge system 71, 81 enables each door panel 70, 80 to
rotate about a vertical axis to an open position more than 900 from the closed position. The
rubber seal/gasket 73, 83 extends along each faceplate 45. In the closed sealed position, the first
and second door panels 70, 80 are recessed within the housing 2 and abut the rubber seal/gasket

                                                   15
73, 83.
[00114]       The figures show an upper drawer 5 and a lower drawer 6 that are both accessible
via the first and second doors 7, 8 from either open end 20, 21 of the housing 2. The drawer 5, 6
can be made of food grade metal or plastics material.
[00115]       The upper and lower drawers 5, 6 are part of a slidable drawer system. Each drawer
5, 6 has a bottom wall as well as upstanding sidewalls. The upper drawer 5 includes an internal
divider wall which provides separate sub compartments for fresh and frozen foods.
[00116]       The slidable drawer system includes inset handles 50, 60 for moving the drawers 5,
6 relative to the partitioning 4 or housing 2. Opposing ends of each drawer 5, 6 have a handle
50, 60.
[00117]       The slidable drawer system includes runners 51, 61, 52, 62 (including slider
bearings) that enable the drawers 5, 6 to be slid relative to the housing 2 or partitioning 4 to a
fixed point.
[00118]       The housing 2 is extendable through any type of opening in any type of fixture. In
some embodiments the housing 2 can be extended through a pre-cut opening in a wall of a
domestic dwelling, commercial residence, shed or bam, for example. In some embodiments the
housing 2 can be extended through a window of a domestic dwelling, commercial residence,
shed or bam, for example. In some embodiments the housing 2 can be extended through a pre
cut opening in a boundary wall or fence of a domestic or commercial property for example.
[00119]       In particularly preferred embodiments, the opening is in an external wall of a
dwelling, particularly a residential dwelling. As already mentioned, preferably the housing
2/door 8 is sized to be partly installed in a kitchen or garage, or any other place of convenience.
In some embodiments, preferably the dimensions of the housing 2/door 8 allow it to be housed
in a kitchen cupboard or under a benchtop.
[00120]       In some embodiments the first door 7 is accessible only from an exterior of the
domestic or commercial dwelling. In some embodiments the second door 8 is only accessible
from an interior of the domestic or commercial dwelling.
[00121]       The mounting system 10 provides a weatherproof and insect proof finish. The
mounting system 10 also provides a decorative finish.

                                                  16
[00122]      The mounting system 10 includes a first gusset 100 that extends around the housing
2, a second gusset 101 that also extends around the housing 2, and interscrews 102 for securing
the first and second gussets 100, 101 either side of the fixture. Each interscrew 102 extends
through an aperture/drill hole in the fixture. The gussets 100, 101 can be welded to the housing
2 after installation. Alternatively, the gussets 101, 101 can be connected to the housing 2 by
way of mechanical fasteners, such as screws or bolts.
[00123]      The drop box 1 further includes components for providing weatherproofing, insect
proofing or decorative finishes. These include, for example, decorative plates, facias, protective
hoods 105 and chemical sealant. Typically the first door 7 would need to be weather and insect
proofed, whereas the second door 8 would normally not be protected from the elements as it is
located within the dwelling.
[00124]      The locking mechanism 9 for selectively locking the first door 7 in the closed
position is shown as an electronic lock comprising an electronic keypad 91 (ie. kepad entry).
Upon entering a preset digital code, the first door 7 can be opened.
[00125]      As seen in figure 3, the drop box 1 can be refrigerated. If so, a refrigeration unit 11
is connected to the housing 2 and a manifold 12 circulates cooled or chilled air to the main
compartment 3. As seen in figure 3, pipes 12 of the manifold 12 extending alongside a sidewall
25 of the housing 2 as well as through the sidewall 25.
[00126]      The drop box 1 can be installed as follows, but not always in the stated step order.
A suitable size and shape opening is installed in the fixture. The location of the opening will
depend on the intended final locations for the first 7 and second 8 doors. Typically, the fixture
will be a wall of a house. The housing 2 (with or without connected door panels 70, 80) is
extended through the opening. The gussets 100, 101 are extended around the housing 2.
Apertures for the interscrews 102 are installed in the fixture. A bead of weatherproofing sealant
is added between the gusset 100 and wall surface. The gussets 100, 101 and wall are clamped
together by way of the interscrews 102. The hood/fascia 105 can be welded to the gusset 100.
Alternatively, the hood/fascia 105 can be connected to the gusset 100 by way of mechanical
fasteners, such as screws or bolts.
[00127]      The drawers 5, 6 are slid into the upper and lower compartments 30, 31. The first
external door 7 is then locked using the electronic keypad 91.

                                                   17
[00128]      Components of the drop box can generally be connected together by way of
mechanical fasteners (such as screws and bolts), to facilitate repairs and maintenance. However,
some components may be welded together.
[00129]      The drop box 1 can be used as follows, but not always in the stated step order. A
delivery person delivering goods such as groceries or a parcel will first unlock the first external
door 7 by way of entering a digital code already known to the delivery person. The delivery
person will then slide out one or both drawers 5, 6 and packed them with goods. The drawers 5,
6 are then slid into the housing 2 and the first external door 7 locked by way of the electronic
keypad 91.
[00130]      A recipient of the goods can access the drop box 1 within the house by way of the
second door 8 (which typically would not be locked). If the drop box 1 is refrigerated then it
may be utilised as a fridge. The drawers 5, 6 can be slid from within the housing 2 and the
goods can be unloaded by the recipient.
[00131]      If need be, the recipient can also leave goods within the drop box 1 for collection by
a person, provided that the person knows the digital code for unlocking the first external door 7.
[00132]      It is to be appreciated that the drop box 1 can be used in other ways.
[00133]      An intended function of the drop box 1 as exemplified is to store deliveries of any
kind (groceries, parcels etc) cool and in a secure space, as well as remove the need to be at
home when goods are delivered. This will take pressure off of both the recipient and the
delivery agent. Key pad access (or cell phone interface) will enable proof of delivery as the pin
code is assigned in the delivery instructions. The pin code can be changed regularly by the
recipient.
[00134]      The drop box 1 as exemplified is intended to be installed in any location of
convenience, being mounted through a wall of a house by way of a gusset 100 which also acts
as a flashing on the outside. The design allows for a range of wall depths, making it easy for a
builder or do-it-yourself installation. There is also a gusset/flashing 101 provided for the inside
depending on the quality of finish required - ie under shelf or in drawer/cabinetry rather than
exposed to view. The gusset design allows a seamless finish both inside and out where the only
exposed parts are the bolt heads of the interscrews 102 seen from the inside - for which an extra
flashing (not shown) is provided and clips over the bolt heads.

                                                   18
[00135]      The construction is either of full stainless steel, mild steel or aluminium for every
thing except the drawers 5, 6 which are constructed with a food grade finish. Having one or the
other steels for the main construction eliminates the risk of rust through electrolysis which is
created by welding different metals. This also gives customer options for price. Alternatively,
construction can be chiefly of plastics material.
[00136]      As already mentioned, the size and design of the housing 2 enables it to be installed
in a kitchen or garage or any other place of convenience. Its dimensions allow its house-interior
side to be housed in a kitchen cupboard or under a benchtop. The design size is similar to the
size of a standard shopping trolley to ensure it can fit the regular amount a shopper would order.
[00137]      The drawer design creates easy access to both the delivery person on the outside
and the recipient from the inside. Ease of access is created by having inside and outside doors 7,
8 that open past 90 degrees so the dual directional sliding drawers 5, 6 open to about 600mm
from each side of the housing 2.
[00138]      Refrigeration is optional with the refrigeration unit 11 bolting onto the side of the
housing 2 after installation. If not installed, then plugs can be installed within the refrigeration
unit 11 mounting points 13 on the sidewall 25 of the housing 2 (see figure 3).
[00139]      Both end doors 7, 8 are sealed regardless. This is not only for temperature but also
for insect proofing.
[00140]      The drop box 1 design allows the consumer to purchase the product at a range of
different stages of construction but still be completely finished. Again, this allows flexibility for
price.
[00141]      The drop box 1 can have a high grade internal and external finish - eg. stainless
steel, aluminium, oven baked paint or powder coating.
[00142]      Referring now to figures 4 and 5, the drop box la shown in these figures is
substantially the same as the other drop box 1 except that it has door panels 70a, 80a hinged to
the housing 2a such that they rotate about a horizontal axis as opposed to a vertical axis. In this
embodiment the door panels 70a, 80a provide support for the lower drawer 6a when
withdrawing it from within the main compartment.
[00143]      Referring now to figures 6, there is shown a freestanding drop box 200 according to

                                                   19
an embodiment of the present invention.
[00144]       The drop box 200 includes a housing 201 having three openings for drawers 202,
203, 204 which lead to a main compartment (not shown) within the housing 201, three sliding
drawers 202, 203, 204 mounted relative to the housing 201 for sealing closed the openings
when in a closed position, a mounting system (not shown) for securely mounting the housing
201 to a fixture, a refrigeration unit 205, and a locking mechanism 206 for selectively locking
the drawers 202-204 in a closed position.
[00145]       The housing 201 is substantially rectangular, having a top wall, a bottom wall and
three sidewalls. The housing 201 is made of metal, such as stainless steel, mild steel or
aluminium, or possibly plastics material. The housing can have a stainless steel, aluminium,
oven baked paint or powder coating finish.
[00146]       The drawers 202-204 have a storage capacity similar to that of a standard shopping
cart/trolley.
[00147]       Each sliding drawer 202-204 includes an insulated front panel, a handle to facilitate
opening and closing, runners or slide rails (not shown) that enable the drawers 202-204 to be
slid relative to the housing 201 or partitioning, preferably to a fixed point. The runners or slide
rails can employ slider bearings or a tongue in groove arrangement, for example, as described
previously.
[00148]       In the closed sealed position, the front panels of the drawers 202-204 are recessed
within the housing 201 and abut a rubber seal/gasket (not shown). The drop box la is both
weatherproof and insect proof.
[00149]       The locking mechanism 206 for selectively locking the first door in the closed
position is shown as an electronic lock comprising an electronic keypad 206 (ie. keypad entry).
Upon entering a preset digital code, the drawers 202-204 can be opened.
[00150]       The drop box la is refrigerated. The housing 201 contains a refrigeration unit 205
so as to circulate cooled or chilled air to the main compartment for sub-compartment thereof.
[00151]       The mounting system includes bolts for securely bolting the housing 201 to the
ground surface/concrete slab.

                                                  20
[00152]      An intended function of the drop box 1a as exemplified is to store deliveries of any
kind (groceries, parcels etc) cool and in a secure space, as well as remove the need to be at
home when goods are delivered. This will take pressure off of both the recipient and the
delivery agent. Key pad access (or cell phone interface) will enable proof of delivery as the pin
code is assigned in the delivery instructions. The pin code can be changed regularly by the
recipient.
[00153]      The drop box la as exemplified is intended to be installed in any location of
convenience, being mounted in this case by way of bolts to the ground. Alternatively, the drop
box la could be mounted to a vertical wall, such as to a wall of a house.
[00154]      In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does
not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[00155]      Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[00156]      In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more
or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is
not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any
of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any)
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                 21
CLAIMS
1.       A drop box comprising:
         a housing extendible through an opening in a fixture such as a wall, and comprising a
first open end and a second open end;
         at least one compartment located within the housing for containing one or more goods
and being accessible from both the first and second open ends;
         a first movable door mounted relative to the housing for sealing closed the first open
end;
         a second movable door mounted relative to the housing for sealing closed the second
open end;
         a mounting system for securely mounting the housing relative to the opening such that
the first door is accessible from only one side of the fixture and the second door is accessible
from only a second side of the fixture; and
         a locking mechanism for selectively locking the first door in the closed position.
2.       The drop box of claim 1, wherein the at least one compartment has a storage capacity
similar to that of a shopping cart/trolley.
3.       The drop box of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the drop box has two compartments that
can be used to store different types of goods.
4.       The drop box of any one of claims I to 3, wherein said drop box is insulated.
5.       The drop box of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the at least one compartment is
refrigerated, wherein a refrigeration unit is connected to the housing and a manifold circulates
cooled or chilled air to the at least one compartment.
6.       The drop box of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the partitioning is in the form
of a shelf extending between sidewalls of the housing and provides an upper compartment that
is separated from a lower compartment.
7.       The drop box of any one of the preceding claims, comprising at least one slidable

                                                22
drawer or tray system that is located within the housing.
8.      The drop box of claim 7, wherein the slidable drawer or tray system comprises one or
more drawers or trays that are accessible via the first and second movable doors from either
open end of the housing.
9.      The drop box of claim 8, wherein each said drawer or tray provides one or more storage
compartments.
10.     The drop box of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the housing is extendable
through a pre-cut opening in a wall of a domestic dwelling, commercial residence, shed or barn.
11.     The drop box of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the housing is extendable through a
window of a domestic dwelling, commercial residence, shed or barn.
12.     The drop box of any one of claims I to 9, wherein the housing is extendable through a
pre-cut opening in a boundary wall or fence of a domestic or commercial property.
13.     The drop box of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the opening is in an external wall of a
dwelling.
14.     The drop box of claim 13, wherein the housing is sized to be partly installed in a kitchen
or garage.
15.     The drop box of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein dimensions of the housing allow the
housing to be housed in a kitchen cupboard or under a benchtop.
16.     The drop box of any one of claims 13 to 15, wherein the first door is accessible only
from an exterior of the dwelling, and the second door is only accessible from an interior of the
dwelling.
17.     The drop box of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the mounting system
comprises one or more mounting brackets, frames, gussets, flashings, mechanical fasteners,
chemical adhesives and/or sealants that connect the housing to the fixture.
18.     The drop box of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising components for
providing weatherproofing, insect proofing or decorative finishes.
19.     The drop box of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the locking mechanism is a

                                                  23
mechanical locking device.
20.      The drop box of any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the locking mechanism is an
electronic lock.
21.      A method of installing a drop box as defined according to any one of the preceding
claims, said method comprising the step of:
         extending the housing through an opening in a fixture; and
         securely mounting the housing relative to the opening using the mounting system.
22.      A method of delivering goods to a drop box as defined according to any one of claims 1
to 20, said method comprising the steps of:
         unlocking the first door;
         placing one or more goods within the at least one compartment; and
         locking the first door using the locking mechanism.
23.      A drop box comprising:
         a housing mountable to a fixture and comprising at least one opening;
         at least one compartment located within the housing for containing one or more goods
and being accessible by way of the at least one opening;
         at least one movable door or drawer mounted relative to the housing for sealing closed
the at least one opening, wherein the at least one movable door or drawer is movable between
an open position and sealed closed position;
         a mounting system for securely mounting the housing relative to the fixture; and
         a locking mechanism for selectively locking the at least one movable door or drawer in
the sealed closed position.
24.      The drop box of claim 23, wherein the drop box is weatherproofed and/or insect proofed
such that the drop box can function normally when exposed to the elements/different weather
conditions.

                                                 24
25.     The drop box of claim 23 or claim 24, wherein the fixture is a horizontally extending
wall, a vertically extending wall, a concrete slab or other type of prepared surface.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
