                                         ABSTRACT
A shared aperture antenna array including an array of antennas is disclosed. Elements of
neighboring antennas are shared to create additional antennas. The shared elements include
radiating patches and apertures. Each antenna shares an aperture with neighboring antennas.
The array of antennas may be linear or two-dimensional. A phase shifting network with
single-pole-single-throw reflective switches may be coupled to the antennas.

30849-E PCT
                     SHARED APERTURE ANTENNA ARRAY
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 10001]     This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 14/178,998., filed
February 12, 2014, entitled "SHARED APERTURE ANTENNA ARRAY", which is
incorporated herein by reference.
STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR
DEVELOPMENT
 [0002]     This invention was made with Government support under Contract DE-AC05
76RL01830 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights
in the invention.
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0003]     This invention relates to antenna arrays. More specifically, this invention relates
to a shared aperture antenna array wherein elements or portions of neighboring antennas are
shared to create additional antennas.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 [0004]     Current technologies for linear and two-dimensional radar imaging antenna arrays
use sequential sampling, synthetic apertures, and sparse array techniques to achieve
sampling/pixel density. All of these techniques focus on switching networks to use antennas
in the array as transmitters/receivers. For example, linear holographic radar imaging arrays
typically use two separate linear arrays of cavity-backed spiral antennas to transmit and
receive circularly polarized signals.

 [0005]     Microwave and millimeter-wave technologies or synthetic aperture imaging
techniques have been developed for a wide variety of applications. These applications
include radar (GPR), through-wall and inner wall imaging, body measurements, security
screening, and non-destructive evaluation. The imaging techniques developed are fully three
dimensional and typically operate by scanning a wide bandwidth radar transceiver over a
planar or cylindrical aperture, and using mathematical techniques to focus the data into a
three-dimensional image. Examples of these techniques are described in U.S. Patent Nos.
5,557,283 and 5,859,609 by Sheen et al. It is advantageous to use mathematical focusing for
these applications because it allows for the use of large apertures and extreme near-field
operation, where it would be inconvenient or impossible to use physical focusing elements
such as lenses or reflectors. Additionally, scanning the transmitter along with the receiver
doubles the resolution relative to fixed transmitters and provides superior illumination quality
by using a large diversity of transmitters.
 [00061     Many near-field radar imaging applications require real-time or near-real-time
data collection and imaging. Sequentially-switched linear array technology that allows one
dimension of a planar or cylindrical aperture to be effectively scanned electronically at high
speed has been developed. This is accomplished by sequencing through each antenna
element or transmit/receive antenna pair using microwave or millimeter-wave switching
networks connected to the radar transceiver.
 [0007]     Phased array antenna systems are well known in the antenna art. Such antennas
are generally comprised of radiating elements that are individually controllable with regard to
relative phase and amplitude. The antenna pattern of the array is selectively determined by
the geometry of the individual elements and the selected phase/amplitude relationships
among the elements. Typical radiating elements for such antenna systems may include
dipoles, patches, waveguides, or slots.

 [0008]     One example of a planar antenna element is known in the art as the Foursquare
antenna, as described in U.S. Patent No. 5,926,137 to Nealy. It comprises four square
radiating elements on the top side of a dielectric substrate which is separated from a ground
plane by a foam separator. At least two coaxial feeds connect to interior corners of opposing
pairs of radiating elements. This Foursquare antenna provides wideband performance and
several practical advantages for commercial and military applications. Various polarizations
can be achieved with the Foursquare antenna - for example, dual linear, circular and elliptical
polarizations of any orientation - and its features are a low-profile geometry and compact
radiating element size.
 [0009]     The continuing challenge with the development of antenna arrays used in
holographic imaging applications is to reduce the size and weight and achieve adequate
physical sampling/pixel spacing in the array. The required sampling is typically a minimum
of one-half wavelength. The physical sampling of the array is determined by the spacing of
transmit and receive antennas used in the array system. Since the physical size of the antenna
is constrained by the bandwidth of operation, the physical size of the antennas cannot be
greatly reduced to achieve any noticeable increase in sampling density.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0010]     In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, an antenna array is
disclosed. The antennas array includes an array of antennas wherein elements of neighboring
antennas are shared to create additional antennas.
 [0011]     The shared elements include radiating patches and apertures. Apertures of
neighboring antennas overlap.
 [0012]     In one embodiment, feed points of the antennas are phased so that opposing dipole
patches are 180 degrees out of phase.

 [0013]     In one embodiment, each antenna is a foursquare antenna.
 [00141     The antennas are printed on a dielectric substrate and located above a ground
plane.
 [00151     The antenna array includes a phase shifting network with single-pole-single-throw
reflective switches coupled to the antennas.
 [0016]     The array of antennas is a linear array of antennas or a two-dimensional array of
antennas.
 [0017]     In another embodiment of the present invention, a shared aperture antenna array is
disclosed. The shared aperture array includes an array of antennas. Each antenna shares an
aperture with neighboring antennas.
 [00181     In another embodiment of the present invention, a method of increasing sampling
density using a shared aperture antenna array is disclosed. The method includes providing an
array of antennas; and creating additional antennas by sharing elements of neighboring
antennas within the array.
 100191     In one embodiment, the method includes electrically coupling a phase shifting
network with single-pole-single-throw reflective switches to the antennas.
 10020]     In another embodiment of the present invention, a shared aperture antenna array is
disclosed. The shared aperture array includes an array having a plurality of antennas wherein
each antenna shares at least one radiating patch and an aperture with a neighboring antenna.
At least one feed point is phased so that opposing dipole patches are 180 degrees out of
phase. The antennas are printed on a dielectric substrate and located above a ground plane.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0021]     Figure 1 is a schematic of a shared aperture antenna linear array, in accordance
with one embodiment of the present invention.

 [0022]     Figure 2 is a schematic of a phase shifting network coupled to antennas, in
accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.
 [0023]     Figure 3 is a graph showing antenna gain using the shared aperture antenna array
of Figure 1.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 [0024]     The present invention describes an array of antennas that shares components or
elements of neighboring antennas to create additional antennas. The shared aperture array
creates additional antenna elements within an array of broadband planar dipole antennas,
allowing for increased array sampling and pixel density than current antenna array designs.
The shared aperture array can achieve pixel sampling distances much smaller than one-half
wavelength with a single array of antennas. The sharing of elements of neighboring antennas
to create additional antennas reduces the physical size of the arrays by a factor of two, allows
for fully polarimetric data sets with a single array, increases the physical sampling - reducing
pixel sampling in the array - to one-twelfth of a wavelength, and enables imaging systems
with reduced weight.
 10025]     In one embodiment, the present invention discloses an array of broadband planar
dipoles and maintains desirable circular polarization properties of transmitted and received
signals using an appropriate feed network.
 [0026]     Figure 1 is a schematic of a shared aperture antenna array 100, in accordance with
one embodiment of the present invention. The antenna array 100 includes a first antenna 110,
a second antenna 120, and a third antenna 130. In this embodiment, each antenna 110, 120,
and 130 is a foursquare antenna that includes four radiating patches or metal sheets 140.
Each radiating patch 140 includes at least one feed point 150. It should be noted that the
antenna array 100 is not limited to any particular number of antennas, radiating patches or

feed points. Note also that the antenna array can be a single (linear) or a two-dimensional
array of antennas.
 [0027]     In the present invention, certain elements or components of the antenna array are
shared. The shared elements include the radiating patches 140 and apertures. For example,
in Figure 1, the radiating patches 140 of the first antenna 110 and the third antenna 130 are
shared to create the second antenna 120. As such, the same radiating patch is used for two
antennas, and two radiating patches belong to two antennas. This is achieved without
changing the physical size of the array 100. The number of antennas is increased as the
radiating patches of neighboring antennas are shared. This results in having nearly twice as
many antennas in the same space compared to current or prior antenna array designs.
 [00281     Apertures of neighboring antennas also overlap. Still referring to Figure 1, the
first antenna 110 has an aperture consisting of its four radiating patches. Likewise, the
second and third antennas 120 and 130 each have apertures above them. However since the
first antenna 110 and the second antenna 120 overlap, they have a shared aperture. Similarly,
since the second and third antennas 120 and 130 overlap, they also share an aperture. Each
antenna shares an aperture with neighboring antennas.
 10029]     Figure 2 is a schematic of a phase shifting network 200 coupled to antennas using
single-pole-single-throw reflective switches, in accordance with one embodiment of the
present invention. The network 200 includes two separate 180 degree hybrids or baluns plus
a separate 90 degree hybrid for each antenna. The feed points of each antenna are coupled to
the 180 degree hybrid couplers via single-pole-single-throw reflective switches. A transfer
switch is coupled between the difference signal outputs of the 180 degree hybrid couplers and
the 90 degree hybrid coupler, which is used to produce circular polarization. A second
switch is coupled between the 90 degree output port and a transceiver - the transmit switch
and the receive switch - which is used for generating signals to be transmitted and processing

received signals. In one embodiment, the array transmits with right-hand circular
polarization (RHCP) and receives with left-hand circular polarization (LHCP).
 [0030]     The antenna array of the present invention was simulated and verified using a
finite element model of a planar broadband foursquare patch/dipole array with a center
frequency of approximately 10 GHz. Figure 3 is a graph showing the antenna gain using this
array configuration, which is similar in design to the antenna array of Figure 1.
 [0031]     Results of the simulation demonstrated the following: an increased sampling/pixel
density - e.g., one-twelfth wavelength sampling, which is 3-6X better than existing array
designs - reduced array surface by 50%, the ability to utilize co-polarized and cross-polarized
signals with a single array, and antenna gain by approximately 5 dB relative to cavity-backed
spiral array designs.
 [0032]     Antenna geometries and feed network components are frequency scalable, so this
design may be used over the RF, microwave, and mm-wave spectrums. The performance of
the linear antenna array can be extrapolated using an infinite array model of the shared
aperture antenna used in a 2-D antenna array configuration.
 [0033]     The shared aperture antenna array of the present invention was able to maintain
the desired antenna gain, voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR), and circular polarized
properties of the baseline antenna by employing a reflective switch at the input to the shared
ports of the foursquare antenna patches to appear as a short-circuit when the element was not
being used.
 [0034]     The shared aperture antenna array demonstrated the ability to obtain both right
handed and left-handed senses of circular polarization using only a single array of antennas.
Sampling configurations within the array allow for improved physical sampling within the
antenna array as small as one-twelfth of a wavelength.

  [0035]     The present invention is applicable to any frequency band via frequency scaling of
the physical antenna dimensions.
  [00361     Applications involving linear and 2-D holographic radar arrays include, but are
not limited, to the following: security screening, handheld holographic imaging systems,
ground penetrating radar (GPR), and clothing/apparel measurements.
  [00371     The shared aperture array allows for increased physical sampling throughout the
antenna array, which results in high-fidelity and multiple polarization state based images.
High-fidelity images in conjunction with multiple polarization state data sets can increase the
probability of detection of threat objects and improve the accuracy for apparel measurements.
  [0038]     The present invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments
incorporating details to facilitate the understanding of the principles of construction and
operation of the invention. As such, references herein to specific embodiments and details
thereof are not intended to limit the scope of the claims appended hereto. It will be apparent
to those skilled in the art that modifications can be made in the embodiments chosen for
illustration without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                          CLAIMS
We Claim:
1.  An antenna array comprising: an array of antennas, wherein elements of neighboring
    antennas are shared to create additional antennas.
2.  The antenna array of Claim 1 wherein the shared elements include radiating patches and
    apertures.
3.  The antenna array of Claim 2 wherein feed points of the antennas are phased so that
    opposing dipole patches are 180 degrees out of phase.
4.  The antenna array of Claim 2 wherein apertures of the neighboring antennas overlap.
5.  The antenna array of Claim 1 wherein each antenna is a foursquare antenna.
6.  The antenna array of Claim 1 wherein the antennas are printed on a dielectric substrate
    and located above a ground plane.
7.  The antenna array of Claim 1 further comprising a phase shifting network with single
    pole-single-throw reflective switches coupled to the antennas.
8.  The antenna array of Claim 1 wherein the array of antennas is a linear array of antennas
    or a two-dimensional array of antennas.
9.  A shared aperture antenna array comprising: an array of antennas, wherein each antenna
    shares an aperture with neighboring antennas.
10. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 9 wherein the antennas are printed on a
    dielectric substrate and located above a ground plane.
11. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 9 wherein apertures of neighboring antennas
    overlap.
12. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 9 wherein at least one radiating patch of
    each antenna is shared with the neighboring antennas.

13. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 12 wherein at least one feed point of each
    antenna is phased so that opposing dipole patches are 180 degrees out of phase.
14. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 9 wherein each antenna in the array is a
    foursquare antenna.
15. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 9 further comprising a phase shifting
    network with single-pole-single-throw reflective switches coupled to the antennas.
16. The shared aperture antenna array of Claim 9 wherein the array of antennas is a linear
    array of antennas or a two-dimensional array of antennas.
17.  A method of increasing sampling density using a shared aperture antenna array
    comprising:
       a. providing an array of antennas; and
       b. creating additional antennas by sharing elements of neighboring antennas within
          the array.
18. The method of Claim 17 wherein the antennas are printed on a dielectric substrate and
    located above a ground plane.
19. The method of Claim 17 wherein the shared elements include apertures and radiating
    patches.
20. The method of Claim 17 wherein feed points of the antennas are phased so that
    opposing dipole patches are 180 degrees out of phase.
21. The method of Claim 17 wherein apertures of the neighboring antennas overlap.
22. The method of Claim 17 wherein each antenna is a foursquare antenna.
23. The method of Claim 17 further comprising electrically coupling a phase shifting
    network with single-pole-single-throw reflective switches to the antennas.

24. A shared aperture antenna array comprising: an array having a plurality of antennas,
    wherein each antenna shares at least one radiating patch and an aperture with a
    neighboring antenna, and wherein at least one feed point is phased so that opposing
    dipole patches are 180 degrees out of phase, and wherein the antennas are printed on a
    dielectric substrate and located above a ground plane.

<removed-date>
              <U+2704><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2701><U+2704>
               <U+2702><U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2704>
                    <U+2704>               <U+2706><U+2704>
                        <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E>
                        <U+270C><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270F><U+2711>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
