ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
    A novel dehumidification frame includes a hemispherical cover body movably
connected to the top of a supporting part, the supporting part, a base movably connected to
the bottom of the supporting part, and a movable rod penetrating into the hemispherical
cover body, the supporting part and the base. The hemispherical cover body, the
supporting part and the base can rotate around the movable rod. The invention has the
advantages of being simple in structure, convenient to use and attractive in appearance.
The cover body, the supporting part and the base can be opened without being
disassembled. A window is further arranged so that users can observe and timely remove
water absorbed by a dehumidification bag to maintain cleanliness and sanitation.

       4
FI3
FIG. 1

                          NOVEL DEHUMIDIFICATION FRAME
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      Technical Field
     [0002]     The invention relates to the field of articles of daily use, in particular to a
novel dehumidification frame.
[0003]      Description of Related Art
     [0004]     Existing dehumidification products mainly adopt particles purely, and
perfume particles or bamboo charcoal is directly added into the dehumidification particles.
In the dehumidification process, after the dehumidification particles absorb water, the
fragrance of the perfume particles or bamboo charcoal particles is weakened, and the
adsorbability of the bamboo charcoal is reduced.
     [0005]     As is known to all, dehumidification bags basically have to be used in
cooperation with dehumidification boxes. An existing dehumidification box is essentially
composed of a cover body, a supporting frame and a cavity for recovering water. However,
it is generally impossible for users to observe whether the dehumidification box is full of
absorbed water or not from the surface of the dehumidification box. In addition, when the
water needs to be poured out, the users have to disassemble the dehumidification box
extremely inconveniently with great strength.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
     [0006]     On account of the defects of the prior art, the invention aims to provide a
novel dehumidification frame so design that a hemispherical cover body, a supporting part
and a base can relatively rotate through a movable rod, and that a visual window is
arranged to allow users to observe the amount of absorbed water.
     [0007]     To realize the above aim, the following technical scheme is adopted by the
                                              1

invention:
     [0008]     The novel dehumidification frame comprises a hemispherical cover body, a
supporting part and a base. The hemispherical cover body is movably connected to the top
of the supporting part. The base is movably connected to the bottom of the supporting part.
The novel dehumidification frame further comprises a movable rod penetrating into the
hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base, and the hemispherical cover
body, the supporting part and the base are can rotate around the movable rod.
     [0009]     What needs to be pointed out is that the inner side face of the bottom of the
hemispherical cover body is provided with a plurality of positioning columns, and the
inner side face of the supporting part is provided with positioning grooves corresponding
to the positioning columns in position and matched with the positioning columns in size.
     [0010]     What needs to be pointed out is that limiting strips are arranged on the
periphery of the bottom of the supporting part. When the base and the supporting part are
connected, the outer side faces of the limiting strips are tightly connected to the inner side
face of the base.
     [0011]     What needs to be pointed out is that a limiting part is arranged in the base,
and the bottom of the supporting part is provided with a limiting block corresponding to
the limiting part in position and matched with the limiting part in size.
     [0012]     What needs to be pointed out is that the hemispherical cover body, the
supporting part and the base are separately provided with partial slots. When the
hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base are connected, the
corresponding partial slots form a complete slot in which the movable rod is inserted.
     [0013]     What needs to be pointed out is that the partial slot in the base is provided
with steps, and the bottom of the movable rod is provided with flanges. When the movable
rod is inserted into the complete slot, the flanges and the steps are mutually limited.
     [0014]     What needs to be pointed out is that the base is provided with an
                                                2

observation window.
    [0015]      What needs to be pointed out is that the surface of the hemispherical cover
body is provided with a plurality of holes.
    [0016]      What needs to be pointed out is that the supporting part is provided with a
plurality of through holes.
    [0017]      What needs to be further pointed out is that the movable rod is slightly
longer than the complete slot.
    [0018]      The invention has the beneficial effects of being simple in structure,
convenient to use and attractive in appearance. The cover body, the supporting part and the
base can be opened without being disassembled. In addition, the window is arranged so
that users can observe water absorbed by the dehumidification bag and can remove the
water in time to keep cleanliness and sanitation.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0019]      FIG 1 is a structural diagram of the invention;
    [0020]      FIG. 2 is a structural diagram of a hemispherical cover body in FIG 1;
    [0021]      FIG 3 is a structural diagram of a supporting part in FIG 1;
    [0022]      FIG 4 is a structural diagram of a bottom in FIG 3;
    [0023]      FIG 4 is a structural diagram of a base in FIG 1;
    [0024]      FIG 6 is a lateral structural diagram of FIG 5;
    [0025]      FIG 7 is a structural diagram of a movable rod in FIG 1;
    [0026]      FIG 8 is a structural section view under the condition that the movable rod
and the base are connected;
    [0027]      FIG 9 is a structural diagram of another appearance shape of the invention;
    [0028]      FIG 10 is a lateral structural perspective view of another appearance shape
of the invention.
                                                3

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    [0029]      The invention is further described with accompanying drawings as follows.
What needs to be pointed out is that this embodiment shows the detailed execution mode
and specific operation process based on the technical scheme, but the protection scope of
the invention is not limited to this embodiment.
    [0030]      As is shown in FIG. 1, a novel dehumidification frame of the invention
comprises a hemispherical cover body 1, a supporting part 2 and a base 3. The
hemispherical cover body 1 is movably connected to the top of the supporting part 2. The
base 3 is movably connected to the bottom of the supporting part 2. The novel
dehumidification frame further comprises a movable rod 4. The movable rod 4 penetrates
into the hemispherical cover body 1, the supporting part 2 and the base 3, and the
hemispherical cover body 1, the supporting part 2 and the base 3 can rotate around the
movable rod 4.
    [0031]      As is shown in FIG 2 and FIG. 3, the inner side face of the bottom of the
hemispherical cover body 1 is provided with a plurality of positioning columns 11, and the
inner side face of the supporting part 2 is provided with positioning grooves 21
corresponding to the positioning columns 11 in position and matched with the positioning
columns 11 in size.
    [0032]      As is shown in FIG 4 and FIG 5, limiting strips 24 are arranged on the
periphery of the bottom of the supporting part 2. When the base 3 and the supporting part
2 are connected, the outer side face of each limiting strip 24 is tightly connected to the
inner side face of the base.
    [0033]      Furthermore, as is shown in FIG 4 and FIG 5, a limiting part 31 is
arranged in the base 3. A limiting block 23 corresponding to the limiting part 31 in
position and matched with the limiting part 31 in size is arranged at the bottom of the
                                              4

supporting part 2.
    [0034]      As is shown in FIGs. 2-6 and FIG. 8, the hemispherical cover body, the
supporting part and the base are separately provided with a corresponding partial slot Al,
a corresponding partial slot A2 and a corresponding partial slot A3. When the
hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base are connected, the
corresponding partial slot Al, the corresponding partial slot A2 and the corresponding
partial slot A3 form a complete slot in which the movable rod is inserted.
    [0035]      As is shown in FIG 7 and FIG 8, the partial slot in the base 3 is provided
with steps 34, and the bottom of the movable rod 4 is provided with flanges 41. When the
movable rod 4 is inserted into the complete slot, the flanges 41 and the steps 34 can be
mutually limited.
    [0036]      Furthermore, as is shown in FIG 6, the base 3 is provided with an
observation window 32. Particularly furthermore, water level warning scales 33 are
arranged on one side of the observation window 32.
    [0037]      As is shown in FIG 1, to enable air to make full contact with a
dehumidification bag (not shown) stored in the supporting part, the surface of the
hemispherical cover body 1 is provided with a plurality of holes 10.
    [0038]      As is shown in FIG 2 and FIG 3, to conveniently recover water absorbed
by the dehumidification bag (not shown), the supporting part 2 is provided with a plurality
of through holes 20.
    [0039]      As is shown in FIG 3, the surfaces of the through holes 20 of the
supporting part 2 are provided with fixing strips 22 for protecting the dehumidification
bag (not shown) on the supporting part 2 against dramatic displacement when the
dehumidification bag is vibrated.
    [0040]      What needs to be further pointed out is that to make sure the rotation of the
hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base around the movable rod, the
                                              5

movable rod is slightly longer than the complete slot.
     [0041]     What needs to be further pointed out is that the movable rod is longer than
the complete slot by over the length of the portion, inserted into the corresponding
positioning groove, of each positioning column.
     [0042]     Furthermore, as is shown in FIG 9 and FIG 10, to be more attractive or to
be matched with dehumidification bags with different sizes, the appearance of the
invention can also be oval.
     [0043]     Embodiment
     [0044]     The dehumidification bag is placed on the supporting part first, and then
the limiting block at the bottom of the supporting part and the limiting part on the base are
overlapped in position and connected. As the limiting strips are arranged at the bottom of
the supporting part, when the supporting part is connected to the base, the limiting strips
are tightly connected to the side face of the base, thereby ensuring the tightness between
the supporting part and the base. Afterwards, the positioning columns arranged on the
hemispherical cover body and the positioning grooves formed in the supporting part are
overlapped in position and connected, the corresponding partial slots of the hemispherical
cover body, the supporting part and the base form a complete slot at this moment, and
finally, the movable rod is inserted into the complete slot to complete assembly.
     [0045]     The hemispherical cover body can be lifted upwards to open the novel
dehumidification frame. What needs to be pointed out is that as the movable rod is longer
than the complete slot, a clearance for the movable rod to move up and down is available
in the complete slot and is longer than portion, inserted into the corresponding positioning
groove, of each positioning column. Therefore, the hemispherical cover body is separated
from the supporting part to rotate around the movable rod after being lifted, and then the
dehumidification bag can be taken out from the supporting part to be replaced.
     [0046]     Moreover, when users observe, through the window and the warning scales
                                               6

arranged on the base, that the base has been full of water, the hemispherical cover body
and the supporting part are lifted synchronously and rotate around the movable rod
according to the principle and method mentioned above, and then water in the base can be
poured out.
    [0047]      Other various corresponding modifications and transformations can be
made by those skilled in the field according to the technical scheme and concept described
above, and all these modifications and transformations should fall within the scope of the
claims of the invention.
                                              7

What is claimed is:
     1. A novel dehumidification frame, characterized by comprising a hemispherical cover
body, a supporting part and a base, wherein the hemispherical cover body is movably
connected to a top of the supporting part, and the base is movably connected to a bottom
of the supporting part; and the novel dehumidification frame further comprises a movable
rod penetrating into the hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base, and
the hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base are capable of rotating
around the movable rod.
     2. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claim 1, characterized in that an
inner side face of a bottom of the hemispherical cover body is provided with a plurality of
positioning columns, and an inner side face of the supporting part is provided with
positioning grooves corresponding to the positioning columns in position and matched
with the positioning columns in size.
     3. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claim 1, characterized in that
limiting strips are arranged on a periphery of the bottom of the supporting part; and when
the base and the supporting part are connected, outer side faces of the limiting strips are
tightly connected to an inner side face of the base.
     4. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claim 3, characterized in that a
limiting part is arranged in the base, and the bottom of the supporting part is provided with
a limiting block corresponding to the limiting part in position and matched with the
positioning part in size.
     5. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claim 1, characterized in that the
hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base are separately provided with
partial slots; and when the hemispherical cover body, the supporting part and the base are
connected, the corresponding partial slots form a complete slot in which the movable rod
is inserted.
                                               8

    6. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claim 5, characterized in that the
partial slot in the base is provided with steps, and a bottom of the movable rod is provided
with flanges; and when the movable rod is inserted into the complete slot, the flanges and
the steps are mutually limited.
    7. The novel dehumidification frame according to any of Claims 1 and 3-6
characterized in that the base is provided with an observation window.
    8. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claims 1 or 5 characterized in that a
surface of the hemispherical cover body is provided with a plurality of holes.
    9. The novel dehumidification frame according to any of Claims 1-6 characterized in
that the supporting part is provided with a plurality of through holes.
     10. The novel dehumidification frame according to Claim 5 or 6 characterized in that
the movable rod is slightly longer than the complete slot.
                                                9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
23451                              1/9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34562                              2/9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34562                              3/9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34562                              4/9

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34567   34562                              5/9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34567                              6/9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34567                              7/9

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34567                              8/9

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    9/9
345617

