                                        ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a method and system for facilitating access to recorded
data. The system comprises an interface and a processing device. The interface is arranged
to receive data and the processing device is arranged to separate the received data in data
subsets, compress each data subset and assign an identifier to each compressed data
subset, thereby creating data units each comprising a compressed data subset and an
associated identifier, the processing device further being arranged to establish an index on
the basis of the assigned identifiers.

                    1/2
                  Data in
                                21
                              776
                   Fig. 1
                      Data
   Index              DU 1
|Offset
 Offset 2
         1
                      DU 2
                      D
                                     .--'_   DU ID
 Offset 3             DU 3                 Compressed
 Offset 4                          .payload
                      DU 4                    data
 Offset N
                      DU N
                   Fig. 2a
                 Receive data            1-1S201
           Separate data into subsets
                                             S202
             Compress each subset            S203
            Assign identifier to each
              comp. data subset              S204
                 Establish index             S205
                     Fig. 2b

                                               1
     METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR FACILITATING ACCESS TO RECORDED
                                             DATA
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5 The invention relates to a method of, and a system for, facilitating access to recorded
   data.
   BACKGROUND
   Existing market surveillance systems provide approaches to monitor and control
10 securities   markets.    Typically,   the  market   surveillance    systems   provide   a
   comprehensive real-time database of trading activity, as well as a structure to analyse
   and process data for suspected market abuse activities.
   Traditionally, every transaction performed during a trading day at a market place,
15 such as a security exchange, has on a daily basis at market closing been compressed
   and stored in a data file in order to make historical transactions manageable and
   accessible. However, this prior art approach introduces several problems when trying
   to detect market abuse activities using historical data. For example, when analysing
   past and present trading activities of a particular participant over a certain period of
20 time, all trading data files within the period must be decompressed and the files
   searched for every single transaction relating to the participant. With the number of
   transactions passing through the market surveillance systems reaching levels of 700
   000 transactions per second and being on the rise, analysis of data and detection of
   abusive patterns and activities in historical data, and in particular analysis of current
25 data in real time, is a very cumbersome task.
   The increased number of transactions passing through the market surveillance
   systems results in an ever increasing amount of data to analyse, in order to detect
   market abuse. The approach in the art of having to decompress great amounts of data
30 all at once and subsequently undertaking vast search and analysis operations makes
   detection of certain patterns in the recorded difficult if not unfeasible.

                                               2
   SUMMARY
   An object of the present invention is to solve or at least mitigate these problems in
   the art. To this end, there is provided a method of, and a system for, facilitating
   access of recorded data.
 5
   The system comprises an interface and a processing device. In the system, the
   interface is arranged to receive data and the processing device is arranged to separate
   the received data in data subsets, assign an identifier to each data subset and
   compress each data subset, whereby data units each comprising a compressed data
10 subset and an associated identifier are created. The processor is further arranged to
   establish an index on the basis of the assigned data subset identifiers. The established
   index advantageously facilitates subsequent access of data units recorded in an
   appropriate memory.
15 The method comprises receiving data, separating the received data in data subsets
   and compressing each data subset. Further, the method comprises assigning an
   identifier to each compressed data subset, thereby creating data units each
   comprising a compressed data subset and an associated identifier, and establishing an
   index on the basis of the assigned identifiers.
20
   Thus, the received data, which typically relates to market transactions, is separated in
   data subsets and compressed, and an identifier is assigned to each compressed data
   subset. The size of each data subset is configurable; larger subsets translate to faster
   scan, smaller index and slower random lookup due to need to decompress larger
25 amounts of data, while smaller subsets accordingly translate to slower scan, larger
   index and faster random lookup. An appropriate index, as will be defined in
   embodiments of the invention discussed in the following, is established on the basis
   of the assigned data subset identifiers. This indexing subsequently enables swift and
   straightforward accessing of stored market transaction data. Hence, if data are to be
30 analysed for detecting certain patterns indicating possible market abuse, the
   established index can be utilized to find and decompress required data. Further, a
   windowing view of the received data can be provided. Advantageously, a complete

                                                3
   order book view can for instance be provided at any given time of the day without
   loading and/or processing all transactions prior to window of interest.
   In an embodiment of the present invention, the system further comprises primary
 5 memory for intermediate storage of the data units. By e.g. using a cache memory or
   another suitable type of primary memory as an intermediate storage area, the
   transaction data can be analysed in real-time, if required. Cache memories are
   comparably small memory devices with very short access times. Hence, cache
   memories are well-adapted for real-time applications, such as market surveillance.
10
   In yet an embodiment of the present invention, the system further comprises
   secondary memory for permanent or semi-permanent storage of the data units,
   wherein the established index facilitates subsequent access of data units recorded in
   the secondary memory.
15
   In various embodiments of the present invention, when primary memory utilization
   degree reaches a predetermined upper threshold level, indicating e.g. that the primary
   memory is full or that a predetermined flush level has been reached (which can be
   used as a safety margin such that incoming data can be stored while moving data
20 simultaneously to the secondary memory), or if an on-the-fly flush instruction is
   received by the primary memory, the data units - i.e. compressed data subsets and
   data subset identifiers - are transferred to the secondary memory for permanent or
   semi-permanent storage. The data units can subsequently be searched and analysed,
   for instance for detection of market abuse or for windowing market activity. By
25 storing historical data in the secondary memory, being a slower and more
   inexpensive form of memory than e.g. a cache memory, for instance a hard disk
   drive, large amounts of market transaction data can be stored for subsequent analysis.
   When analysing historical data, memory access lead times are not as critical as when
   performing real-time analyses. Thus, inexpensive and easily scalable storage of
30 historical market transaction data is facilitated.
   In an alternative embodiment of the present invention, data units can be directly
   written to, and stored in, the secondary memory, without first having been

                                                4
   intermediately stored in the primary memory. In case only analysis of historical data
   is desirable, the data units are directly written to the secondary memory, in which the
   primary memory could be used for other purposes than storing data units. Ultimately,
   in case the data units are written directly to the secondary memory, the primary
 5 memory could be omitted altogether. This would be highly advantageous in case a
   cost-effective system is to be provided where only historical analysis is required.
   A combination of the two precedingly discussed embodiments is possible, where
   data units occasionally are stored in the primary memory and occasionally are
10 written directly to the secondary memory.
   In an embodiment of the present invention, the data units are transferred to the
   secondary memory from the primary memory until the primary memory utilization
   degree falls to a predetermined lower threshold value, wherein a next transfer of data
15 units from the primary memory to the secondary memory is performed when the
   primary memory utilization degree again reaches the predetermined upper threshold
   value. Hence, data units may be transferred until the primary memory is emptied or
   until memory utilization degree falls to a threshold value which is set such that a
   smaller number of data units are retained in the primary memory, i.e. the primary
20 memory is not completely emptied. This is advantageous in case a real-time data
   analysis is in progress when data units are transferred from the primary memory to
   the secondary memory. It is noted that the actual transfer of data units from the
   primary memory to the secondary memory may be executed by the processing device
   instructing the primary memory or alternatively, the primary memory itself may be
25 arranged to carry out transfer of data units. As has been mentioned hereinabove, it is
   also possible that the primary memory receives an instruction to transfer data the
   secondary memory even though a predetermined threshold value has not been
   reached.
30 In a further embodiment of the present invention, the established index is arranged to
   indicate physical location of each data unit in the primary memory and the secondary
   memory. When the market transaction data received by the system is separated into
   data subsets and each subset is assigned an identifier, the identifier may for instance

                                                5
   designate the market participant effecting the transaction. Thus, the identifier
   indicates "broker firm A" to be responsible for the transaction. Of course, possible
   subsequent data subsets pertaining to "broker firm A" may be allocated this
   particular identifier. Data units are created each comprising a compressed data subset
 5 and the associated identifier, which data units initially are stored in the primary
   memory and later on in the secondary memory. In this particular example, the index
   is arranged to indicate where data units pertaining to "broker firm A" is located.
   Thus, the index may be embodied as "A, startaddress, endaddress", indicating
   market participant "A" and where the transaction data pertaining to this particular
10 participant physically can be located. The index may due to address mapping have a
   certain appearance while the data units reside in primary memory, and another
   appearance when the data units are transferred to secondary memory. It should
   further be noted that not every data unit pertaining to a particular market participant
   may be stored sequentially in the memories. Hence, the index may alternatively be
15 embodied as "A, startaddressl, endaddressl, startaddress2, endaddress2".
   In a further embodiment of the present invention, the established index is arranged to
   comprise a timestamp indicating timing parameters of the received data. When the
   market transaction data received by the system is separated into data subsets and
20 each subset is assigned an identifier, the identifier may for instance indicate various
   timing parameters regarding the transaction. Thus, the identifier may indicate the
   point in time when an order was placed at a security exchange, as well as the point in
   time when a deal was closed. The index is established on the basis of these
   transaction data timing parameters. In this particular example, the index may be
25 embodied     as   "starttranstime,      endtranstime,    startaddress,   endaddress".
   Subsequently, if an analysis is to be performed on historical data in the secondary
   memory, the index can advantageously be used to physically fetch data units
   recorded in a particular time interval.
30 It is understood that the established index can be elaborated in great detail. For
   instance, an index may be established by the processing device to comprise the
   information of the respective index of the two precedingly described embodiments.
   Such an index could be embodied as "A, starttrans time, endtrans time,

                                                6
   startaddress, endaddress". Such an index would be advantageous if an analysis of
   historical data was to be undertaken where activity of a particular market participant
   in a certain time window is to be investigated.
 5 In an alternative embodiment, the processing device establishes a plurality of indices
   on the basis of the assigned identifiers, for instance the two different indices
   discussed in the above. These different indices can then be combined to facilitate
   subsequent location and access of data units recorded in the secondary memory. The
   use of different indices makes for a more flexible search approach, whereas the use
10 of a single index is more straightforward and avoids increased processor load when
   multiple indices are to be established and subsequently combined for secondary
   memory search to be performed.
   With the interface, the processing device providing indexed data and the memory
15 structure according to embodiments of the present invention a high capacity system
   is provided which further is easily scalable. Traditionally, market transaction data
   have been loaded in their entirety into memory.
   In one aspect the present invention provides a system for facilitating access of
   recorded data, the system including:
20          a processing device having a processor and an interface configured to receive
   a volume of data, the processing device configured to:
            separate the received volume of data into data subsets,
            compress each data subset by applying a compression technique to data
   within each respective data subset thereby generating compressed payload data,
25          assign an identifier to each compressed data subset thereby creating data units
   each including the generated compressed payload data and an associated identifier,
   and
           establish an index on the basis of the identifiers assigned to each compressed
   data subset, each index entry including a timing parameter corresponding to a point
30 in time when a transaction associated with the data subset occurred.

                                                7
   In another aspect the present invention provides a method of facilitating access of
   recorded data implemented using an information processing system having at least
   one processor, the method including:
           receiving, by the at least one processor, a volume of data,
 5          separating, by the at least one processor, the received volume of data into data
   subsets,
            compressing, by the at least one processor, each data subset by applying a
   compression technique to data within each respective data subset thereby generating
   compressed payload data,
10          assigning, by the at least one processor, an identifier to each compressed data
   subset thereby creating data units each including the generated compressed payload
   data and an associated identifier,
            establishing, by the at least one processor, an index on the basis of the
   identifiers assigned to each compressed data subset, each index entry including a
15 timing parameter corresponding to a point in time when a transaction associated with
   the data subset occurred, and
           using, by the at least one processor, the established index to selectively
   process one or more of the created data units
   In a further aspect the present invention provides a non-transitory computer-readable
20 medium including computer-executable instructions which, when executed by at
   least one processor of an information processing system, cause the information
   processing system to:
           receive a volume of data;
            separate the received volume of data into data subsets;
25          compress each data subset by applying a compression technique to data
   within each respective data subset thereby generating compressed payload data;
            assign an identifier to each compressed data subset thereby creating data units
   each including the generated compressed payload data and an associated identifier;
   and
30          establish an index on the basis of the identifiers assigned to each compressed
   data subset, each index entry including a timing parameter corresponding to a point
   in time when a transaction associated with the data subset occurred.

                                                 8
   It is noted that the invention relates to all possible combinations of features recited in
   the claims. Further features of, and advantages with, the present invention will
   become apparent when studying the appended claims and the following description.
   Those skilled in the art realize that different features of the present invention can be
 5 combined to create embodiments other than those described in the following.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention is now described, by way of example, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
10 Figure 1 illustrates a system according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 2a illustrates an index and data file structure according to an embodiment of
   the present invention;
15 Figure 2b illustrates a flow chart illustrating a method according to an embodiment
   of the present invention;
   Figure 3 illustrates a system according to a further embodiment of the present
   invention; and
20
   Figure 4 illustrates a flow chart illustrating a method according to a further
   embodiment of the present invention;
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
25 The invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which certain embodiments of the invention are shown.
   This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not
   be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these
   embodiments are provided by way of example so that this disclosure will be
30 thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those
   skilled in the art.

                                                9
   Figure 1 shows a system 1 according to an embodiment of the present invention
   comprising an interface 2 and a processing device 3. Data are input to the system via
   the interface 1. The system may be embodied in the form of a security exchange, in
   which the case the data input typically is embodied in the form of market transaction
 5 data / order data or other, similar, type of data.
   The processing device 3 is typically embodied in the form of a specific- or general
   purpose computer comprising a processor 6 arranged to execute program code
   downloaded to a suitable storage area associated with the processor, such as a RAM,
10 a Flash memory or a hard disk. In an embodiment of the present invention, the
   processor is arranged to at least partly carry out the method according to the present
   invention when appropriate          program    code   comprising   computer-executable
   components is downloaded to the memory and executed by the processor. The
   processor may alternatively be embodied in the form of an application specific
15 integrated circuit (ASIC), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), a complex
   programmable logic device (CPLD), etc.
   Typically, large amounts of data are received via the interface, and to subsequently
   be able to locate and process the data in a swift manner, the processing device 2 is
20 arranged to separate the received data in a plurality of data subsets, compress each
   data subset and assign an identifier to each compressed data subset, whereby data
   units each comprising a compressed data subset and an associated identifier are
   created.
25 This is illustrated by means of Figure 2a and the flow chart of 2b, where a large
   volume of data is received in step S201 and separated into N data subsets in step
   S202. Thereafter, each subset is compressed in step S203 and an identifier is
   assigned to each compressed data subset in step S204. Compressing technologies
   which may be utilized comprise e.g. zlib, bzip2 and snappy. Thus, a data unit
30 comprising a compressed data subset and an associated identifier is created. The data
   units are denoted DU 1, DU 2, etc., in Figure 2a. Each data unit hence comprises an
   identifier DU ID and compressed payload data, which is exemplified by DU 3. The
   processor 2 is further arranged to establish, in step S205, an index on the basis of the

                                                10
   assigned data subset identifiers. The established index advantageously facilitates
   subsequent access of data units recorded in an appropriate memory. As can be seen
   in Figure 2a, in this particular example, the index file contains N posts, where each
   index entry denoted Offset is associated with each identifier DU ID and thus each
 5 single data unit DU. In an embodiment of the present invention, the established index
   is arranged to indicate physical location of each data unit in the memory in which the
   data units are stored. As a result, index entry Offset 1 may comprise DU ID 1 and the
   physical address where the associated data payload is located. In a further
   embodiment, each index entry comprises a time stamp indicating timing parameters
10 of the compressed payload data. In a typical application, a security market supervisor
   will want to have fast access to data recorded in the system during a particular timing
   window. As previously has been mentioned, if data are to be analysed for detecting
   certain patterns indicating possible market abuse, the established index can be
   utilized to find and decompress required data. Further, a windowing view of the
15 received data can be provided. Advantageously, a complete order book view can for
   instance be provided at any given time of the day without loading and/or processing
   all transactions prior to the window of interest.
   With reference to Figure 3, in an embodiment of the present invention, the system 1
20 further comprises primary memory 4, such as cache memory, for intermediate
   storage of the data units, thereby facilitating analysis of transaction data in real-time.
   Again with reference to Figure 3, in a further embodiment of the present invention,
   the system comprises secondary memory 5 for permanent or semi-permanent storage
   of the data units, thereby facilitating analysis of historical transaction data, wherein
25 the established index facilitates subsequent access of the data units recorded in the
   secondary memory. From a general point of view, the secondary memory will have a
   considerably greater storage capacity than the primary memory. Thus, the established
   index is of greater importance for accessing the secondary memory, even though the
   index is helpful for searching the primary memory as well.
30
   As can be seen, both the primary memory 4 and the secondary memory 5 are
   depicted in Figure 3. However, it should be noted that the system in embodiments of
   the present invention may comprise either of the two memories. For instance, in case

                                              11
   only real-time analysis is required, it is sufficient to include only the primary
   memory, whereas if only historical analysis is desired, only the secondary memory is
   necessary. Further, primary memory may be employed for recent data while
   secondary memory is used for older data. However, if a fully flexible system is to be
 5 provided, a primary as well as a secondary memory is included in the system. The
   primary memory 4 is typically located physically close to the processing device 3.
   The secondary memory 5 could be located close to the processing device, but could
   alternatively be remotely arranged from the processing device.
10 The flow chart of Figure 4 (being an extension of the flow chart of Figure 2b)
   together with the block diagram of Figure 3 illustrates a further embodiment of the
   present invention. In this embodiment, The data units are stored in the primary
   memory 4 in step S206, and when utilization degree of the primary memory reaches
   a predetermined upper threshold level in step S207, i.e. when the system 1 has
15 received a certain amount of data via the interface 2 and the processing device 3 has
   separated the received data into data units as previously described, which upper level
   indicates e.g. that the primary memory is full or that a predetermined flush level has
   been reached, the data units are transferred in step S208 to the secondary memory 5
   for permanent or semi-permanent storage, step S209. The data units are transferred to
20 the secondary memory from the primary memory until the primary memory
   utilization degree falls to a predetermined lower threshold value, wherein a next
   transfer of data units from the primary memory to the secondary memory is
   performed     when the primary memory utilization degree           again reaches the
   predetermined upper threshold value. The data units can subsequently be searched in
25 the secondary memory and analysed by using the established index to find desired
   data units.
   With further reference to the flow chart of Figure, in step S207 it is determined
   whether data units should be transferred from the primary memory to the secondary
30 memory. This is not necessarily dictated by the primary memory utilization degree
   reaching a certain predetermined level, but could alternatively be controlled by a data
   transfer instruction executed by the processing device, possible as a consequence of
   an operator requesting the data transfer. As previously has been mentioned, data

                                               12
   units could be written directly to the secondary memory 5 from the processing device
   3, without passing through the primary memory 4.
   As was discussed in connection to Figure 2a, the established index is arranged to
 5 indicate physical location of each data unit in the primary memory and the secondary
   memory. When the market transaction data received by the system is separated into
   data subsets and each subset is assigned an identifier, the identifier may be arranged
   to indicate any information which subsequently could be valuable for the market
   supervisor. For instance, the market participant responsible for the transaction could
10 be designated by "A, startaddress, endaddress", where "A" indicates the particular
   market participant and "startaddress, endaddress" indicates the physical address in
   memory where the data unit of interest is located. Typically, a search for market
   participant "A" in an index file will return a plurality of physical addresses since each
   respective participant typically is involved in a great number of transactions.
15 Attaining fast access to a large number of data units by practically pressing a search
   button is highly advantageous; the index file can easily be searched for different
   identifiers and the corresponding data will be returned more or less instantly.
   Further, the index is advantageously arranged to comprise timestamps for the data
20 units, thereby indicating when the market transaction data was received via the
   system interface. For instance, a complete order book view can be provided at any
   given time of the day without loading and/or processing all transactions prior to
   window of interest. In this particular example, the index is embodied as
   "starttrans-time, endtranstime, startaddress, endaddress". Thus, by searching
25 the index file for a particular time interval, for instance all transactions made
   between 11:02 and 11:04 a given day, the market supervisor will be given the
   physical location to data recorded during the required time interval, which
   subsequently can be decompressed and analysed.
30 Even though the       invention has been       described with reference       to specific
   exemplifying embodiments thereof, many different alterations, modifications and the
   like will become apparent for those skilled in the art. The described embodiments are

                                           13
therefore not intended to limit the scope of the invention, as defined by the appended
claims.

                                                  14
   CLAIMS:
   1.       A system for facilitating access of recorded data, the system including:
            a processing device having a processor and an interface configured to receive a
   volume of data, the processing device configured to:
 5          separate the received volume of data into data subsets,
            compress each data subset by applying a compression technique to data within
   each respective data subset thereby generating compressed payload data,
            assign an identifier to each compressed data subset thereby creating data units
   each including the generated compressed payload data and an associated identifier, and
10          establish an index on the basis of the identifiers assigned to each compressed data
   subset, each index entry including a timing parameter corresponding to a point in time
   when a transaction associated with the data subset occurred.
   2.       The system of claim 1, further including:
            a primary memory configured to store the data units created by the processing
15 device, the stored data units being transferred from the primary memory when a primary
   memory utilization degree reaches a predetermined upper threshold value.
   3.       The system of claim 1, further including:
            a primary memory configured to store the data units created by the processing
   device, the stored data units being transferred from the primary memory when the primary
20 memory receives a memory flush instruction.
   4.       The system of claim 1, further including:
            a secondary memory configured to store the data units, the established index
   facilitating subsequent access of data units recorded in the secondary memory.
   5.       The system of claim 4, wherein the primary memory is configured to transfer data
25 units stored therein to the secondary memory.
   6.       The system of claim 4, wherein the processing device is configured to write data
   units directly to the secondary memory.

                                                  15
   7.       The system of claim 4, wherein the processing device is configured to transfer the
   data units to the secondary memory until the primary memory utilization degree falls to a
   predetermined lower threshold value, wherein a next transfer of data units from the
   primary memory to the secondary memory is performed when the primary memory
 5 utilization degree again reaches the predetermined upper threshold value.
   8.       The system of claim 1, wherein
            the processing device is configured to establish the index such that it indicates a
   physical location of each data unit in the primary memory and the secondary memory.
   9.       The system of claim 1, wherein
10          the processing device further is configured to establish a plurality of indices on the
   basis of the assigned identifiers.
   10.      The system of claim 9, wherein
            the processing device further is configured to establish the indices such that they
   can be combined to facilitate subsequent location and access of data units recorded in the
15 secondary memory.
   11.      The system of claim 1, wherein
            the processing device is configured to establish the index such that it indicates one
   or more of parameters selected from a group including: type of security traded, market
   participants, order identifier, final offer.
20 12.      The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device further configured to:
            locate a group of compressed data subsets based on an interval of time associated
   with the timing window defined by the timing parameter associated with each index entry,
   and
            decompress each data subset in the group of compressed data subsets thereby
25 generating decompressed payload data.
   13.      The system of claim 1, wherein the timing parameter includes, at least, a start
   transaction time and an end transaction time.

                                                 16
   14.     The system of claim 1, wherein the timing parameter enabling a user to view a
   complete order book at any given time of a day without loading and/or processing all
   transactions prior to a window of time of interest.
   15.     The system of claim 1, wherein the timing parameter indicative of a point in time
 5 when an order was placed at an exchange and/or a point in time when a deal was closed.
   16.     A method of facilitating access of recorded data implemented using an
   information processing system having at least one processor, the method including:
           receiving, by the at least one processor, a volume of data,
           separating, by the at least one processor, the received volume of data into data
10 subsets,
           compressing, by the at least one processor, each data subset by applying a
   compression technique to data within each respective data subset thereby generating
   compressed payload data,
           assigning, by the at least one processor, an identifier to each compressed data
15 subset thereby creating data units each including the generated compressed payload data
   and an associated identifier,
           establishing, by the at least one processor, an index on the basis of the identifiers
   assigned to each compressed data subset, each index entry including a timing parameter
   corresponding to a point in time when a transaction associated with the data subset
20 occurred, and
                   using, by the at least one processor, the established index to selectively
   process one or more of the created data units.
   17.     The method of claim 16, further including:
           storing the data units in primary memory; and
25         transferring the stored data units from the primary memory when a primary
   memory utilization degree reaches a predetermined upper threshold value.
   18.     The method of claim 16, further including:
           storing the data units in primary memory, and
           transferring the stored data units from the primary memory when the primary
30 memory receives a memory flush instruction.

                                                   17
   19.      The method of claim 16, further including:
            storing the data units in secondary memory, the established index facilitating
   subsequent access of data units recorded in the secondary memory.
   20.      The method of claim 19, further including:
 5          transferring the stored data units from the primary memory to the secondary
   memory.
   21.      The method of claim 19, further including:
            writing data units directly to the secondary memory with no intermediate storage
   in the primary memory.
10 22.      The method of claim 19, further including:
            transferring the data units to the secondary memory until the primary memory
   utilization degree falls to a predetermined lower threshold value, wherein a next transfer
   of data units from the primary memory to the secondary memory is performed when the
   primary memory utilization degree again reaches the predetermined upper threshold
15 value.
   23.      The method of claim 16, wherein the establishing of the index further comprises:
            establishing the index such that it indicates a physical location of each data unit in
   the primary memory and the secondary memory.
   24.      The method of claim 16, wherein the establishing of the index further comprises:
20          establishing a plurality of indices on the basis of the assigned identifiers.
   25.      The method of claim 24, wherein the establishing of the index further comprises:
            establishing the indices such that they can be combined to facilitate subsequent
   location and access of data units recorded in the secondary memory.
   26.      The method of claim 16, wherein the establishing of the index further comprises:
25          establishing the index such that it indicates one or more of parameters selected
   from a group including: type of security traded, market participants, order identifier, final
   offer.

                                                18
   27.     A non-transitory computer-readable       medium including computer-executable
   instructions which, when executed by at least one processor of an information processing
   system, cause the information processing system to:
           receive a volume of data;
 5         separate the received volume of data into data subsets;
           compress each data subset by applying a compression technique to data within
   each respective data subset thereby generating compressed payload data;
           assign an identifier to each compressed data subset thereby creating data units
   each including the generated compressed payload data and an associated identifier; and
10         establish an index on the basis of the identifiers assigned to each compressed data
   subset, each index entry including a timing parameter corresponding to a point in time
   when a transaction associated with the data subset occurred.
                                NASDAQ TECHNOLOGY AB
15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
