1002183742
                                          ABSTRACT
An electronic device with a display can receive an alert comprising information, and in
response to receiving the alert, issue a perceptual output. The device can detect a user input
and determine whether the user input was detected within a predetermined time interval after
the perceptual output. In accordance with a determination that the user input was detected
within the predetermined time interval, the device can display a notification on the display,
wherein the notification comprises a first portion of the information. If the device continues
to detect the user input after a second predetermined time period, the device can display a
second portion of the information, where the second portion is different from the first portion.
                                                93

1002183742
                 REDUCED-SIZE INTERFACES FOR MANAGING ALERTS
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
62/044,894, "Reduced-Size Interfaces For Managing Alerts," filed on September 2, 2014, and to
U.S. Provisional Application Serial No 62/129,818, "Reduced-Size Interfaces For Managing
Alerts," filed on March 7, 2015. The content of these applications is hereby incorporated by
reference for all purposes.
[0002]       This application relates to co-pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application serial
number 62/129,924 titled "Reduced-Size Notification Interface," filed March 8, 2015; U.S.
Provisional Patent Application serial number 62/044,953 titled "Reduced-Size Notification
Interface," filed September 2, 2014; U.S. Provisional Patent Application serial number
62/129,903 entitled "User Interface For Receiving User Input," filed March 8, 2015; U.S.
Provisional Patent Application serial number 62/127,800 titled "User Interface For Receiving
User Input," filed March 3, 2015; U.S. Provisional Patent Application serial number 62/044,923
entitled "User Interface For Receiving User Input," filed September 2, 2014; U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 62/026,532, "Raise Gesture Detection in a Device," filed July 18,
2014; International Patent Application Serial No. PCT/US2013/040061, "Device, Method, and
Graphical User Interface for Displaying User Interface Objects Corresponding to an
Application," filed May 8, 2013; International Patent Application Serial No.
PCT/US2013/069483, titled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Transitioning
Between Touch Input to Display Output Relationships," filed November 11, 2013; and U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/044,894, filed September 2, 2014. The contents of
these applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[0002A]          Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2015/044083
(published as WO 2016/036472), filed on 6 August 2015.
                                                FIELD
[0003]       The disclosed examples relate generally to user interfaces of electronic devices.
                                           BACKGROUND
[0004]       Reduced-size electronic devices (e.g., devices that are smaller than typical cellular
phones) that are configured to be worn by a user can allow a user to view and respond to various
                                                   1

1002183742
types of alerts, such as text messages, emails, voicemails, and calendar alerts. User interfaces
that enable a reduced-size electronic device to be efficiently used for viewing and responding to
alerts are desirable.
[0004A]          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be
understood, regarded as relevant and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a person
skilled in the art.
                                               SUMMARY
[0004B]          In a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method, comprising:
at an electronic device with a display: receiving a plurality of alerts; in response to receiving the
plurality of alerts: determining whether the plurality of alerts meet a grouping criteria; in
accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts meet the grouping criteria, displaying
a grouped notification representing the plurality of alerts; and in response to a determination that
the plurality of alerts do not meet the grouping criteria: displaying a plurality of notifications
representing the plurality of alerts, wherein the grouping criteria includes a criterion that is met
when the plurality of alerts are received within a predetermined time period.
[0005]       In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic device
with a display. The method includes receiving an alert comprising information, and in response
to receiving the alert, issuing a perceptual output. The method includes detecting a user input
and determining whether the user input was detected within a predetermined time interval after
the perceptual output. The method includes, in accordance with a determination that the user
input was detected within the predetermined time interval, displaying a notification on the
display, wherein the notification comprises a first portion of the information.
[0006]       In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device with a display. The method includes receiving a first alert and a second alert. The method
includes, in response to receiving the first alert and the second alert, determining whether the
first alert and second alert meet a grouping criteria. The method includes, in response to a
determination that the first alert and the second alert meet the grouping criteria, displaying a
grouped notification representing the first alert and the second alert. The method includes, in
response to a determination that the first alert and the second alert do not meet the grouping
                                                     2

1002183742
criteria, displaying a first notification representing the first alert, and replacing display of the first
notification with display of a second notification representing the second alert.
[0007]       In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic device
that is actively displaying content. The method includes receiving an alert comprising
information. The method includes, in response to receiving the alert, displaying a notification
banner across a portion of the display, wherein the notification banner comprises a first portion
of the information and wherein at least a portion of the content continues to be displayed. The
method includes detecting a contact on the display at a location corresponding to the notification
banner, and in response to detecting the contact, displaying a second portion of the information,
wherein the second portion is different from the first portion.
[0008]       In accordance with some embodiments, a non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions,
when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a display cause the
electronic device to: receive an alert comprising information; in response to receiving the alert,
issue a perceptual output; detect a user input; determine whether the user input was detected
within a predetermined time interval after the perceptual output; and in accordance with a
determination that the user input was detected within the predetermined time interval, display a
notification on the display, wherein the notification comprises a first portion of the information.
[0009]       In accordance with some embodiments, a non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions,
when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a display cause the
electronic device to: receive a plurality of alerts; in response to receiving the plurality of alerts,
determine whether the plurality of alerts meet a grouping criteria; in accordance with a
determination that the plurality of alerts meet the grouping criteria, display a grouped
notification representing the plurality of alerts; and, in response to a determination that the
plurality of alerts do not meet the grouping criteria, display a plurality of notifications
representing the plurality of alerts.
[0010]       In accordance with some embodiments, a non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions,
when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display
cause the electronic device to: while actively displaying content, receive an alert comprising
information; in response to receiving the alert, display of a notification banner across a portion of
                                                     3

1002183742
the display, wherein the notification banner comprises a first portion of the information and
wherein at least a portion of the content continues to be displayed; detect a contact on the touch
sensitive display at a location corresponding to the notification banner; and, in response to
detecting the contact, display of a second portion of the information, wherein the second portion
is different from the first portion.
[0011]       In accordance with some embodiments, a transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions,
when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a display cause the
electronic device to: receive an alert comprising information; in response to receiving the alert,
issue a perceptual output; detect a user input; determine whether the user input was detected
within a predetermined time interval after the perceptual output; and in accordance with a
determination that the user input was detected within the predetermined time interval, display a
notification on the display, wherein the notification comprises a first portion of the information.
[0012]       In accordance with some embodiments, a transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions,
when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a display cause the
electronic device to: receive a plurality of alerts; in response to receiving the plurality of alerts,
determine whether the plurality of alerts meet a grouping criteria; in accordance with a
determination that the plurality of alerts meet the grouping criteria, display a grouped
notification representing the plurality of alerts; and, in response to a determination that the
plurality of alerts do not meet the grouping criteria, display a plurality of notifications
representing the plurality of alerts.
[0013]       In accordance with some embodiments, a transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing one or more programs comprising instructions is disclosed. The instructions,
when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display
cause the electronic device to: while actively displaying content, receive an alert comprising
information; in response to receiving the alert, display of a notification banner across a portion of
the display, wherein the notification banner comprises a first portion of the information and
wherein at least a portion of the content continues to be displayed; detect a contact on the touch
sensitive display at a location corresponding to the notification banner; and, in response to
detecting the contact, display of a second portion of the information, wherein the second portion
is different from the first portion.
                                                    4

1002183742
[0014]       An electronic device, comprising: a display; one or more processors; a memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and
configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including
instructions for: receiving an alert comprising information, and in response to receiving the alert,
issuing a perceptual output; detecting a user input and determining whether the user input was
detected within a predetermined time interval after the perceptual output; in accordance with a
determination that the user input was detected within the predetermined time interval, displaying
a notification on the display, wherein the notification comprises a first portion of the
information.
[0015]       An electronic device, comprising: a display; one or more processors; a memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and
configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including
instructions for: receiving a first alert and a second alert and, in response to receiving the first
alert and the second alert, determining whether the first alert and second alert meet a grouping
criteria; in response to a determination that the first alert and the second alert meet the grouping
criteria, displaying a grouped notification representing the first alert and the second alert; in
response to a determination that the first alert and the second alert do not meet the grouping
criteria, displaying a first notification representing the first alert, and replacing display of the first
notification with display of a second notification representing the second alert.
[0016]       An electronic device, comprising: a touch-sensitive display; one or more processors;
a memory; and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the
memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for: receiving an alert comprising information and in response to receiving
the alert, displaying a notification banner across a portion of the display, wherein the notification
banner comprises a first portion of the information and wherein at least a portion of the content
continues to be displayed; detecting a contact on the display at a location corresponding to the
notification banner, and in response to detecting the contact, displaying a second portion of the
information, wherein the second portion is different from the first portion.
[0017]       Executable instructions for performing these functions are, optionally, included in a
non-transitory computer-readable storage medium or other computer program product
configured for execution by one or more processors. Executable instructions for performing
                                                     5

1002183742
these functions are, optionally, included in a transitory computer-readable storage medium or
other computer program product configured for execution by one or more processors.
                                 DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0018]      For a better understanding of the various described embodiments, reference should be
made to the Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the following drawings in
which like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the figures.
[0019]      FIG. 1A is a block diagram illustrating a portable multifunction device with a touch
sensitive display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0020]      FIG. 1B is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event handling in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0021]      FIG. 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0022]      FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a display and a
touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[0023]      FIG. 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on a
portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[0024]      FIG. 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device with a
touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0025]      FIG. 5A illustrates a personal electronic device in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0026]      FIG. 5B is a block diagram illustrating a personal electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0027]      FIG. 5C illustrates detection of contacts with intensity sensors.
[0028]      FIG. 5D illustrates assigning an aggregate intensity to contacts.
[0029]      FIGS. 5E-5H illustrate detection of a gesture having an intensity of contact.
[0030]      FIGS. 6A-6C illustrate exemplary user interfaces.
                                                  6

1002183742
[0031]     FIG. 7 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0032]     FIG. 8 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0033]     FIG. 9 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0034]     FIG. 10 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0035]     FIG. 11 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0036]     FIGS. 12A-C illustrate an exemplary user interface.
[0037]     FIGS. 13A-B illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0038]     FIG. 14 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0039]     FIG. 15 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0040]     FIG. 16 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0041]     FIG. 17 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0042]     FIG. 18 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0043]     FIG. 19 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0044]     FIG. 20 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0045]     FIG. 21 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0046]     FIG. 22 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0047]     FIGS. 23A-23C illustrate exemplary user interfaces.
[0048]     FIG. 24 illustrates an exemplary user interface.
[0049]     FIG. 25 illustrates an exemplary process for managing alerts.
[0050]     FIG. 26 illustrates an exemplary process for managing alerts.
[0051]     FIG. 27 illustrates an exemplary process for managing alerts.
                                                 7

1002183742
[0052]       FIGS. 28-31 illustrate exemplary functional block diagrams of electronic devices in
accordance with some embodiments.
                                DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0053]       The following description sets forth exemplary methods, parameters and the like. It
should be recognized, however, that such description is not intended as a limitation on the scope
of the present disclosure but is instead provided as a description of exemplary embodiments.
[0054]       As discussed above, a reduced-size personal electronic device that is configured to be
worn by a user can enable a user to view and respond to various alerts, such as text messages,
emails, voicemails, audio messages, stock alerts, clock alarms, calendar alerts, fitness alerts,
store coupons or loyalty program alerts, for example, via user interfaces. There are, however,
several challenges associated with viewing and responding to alerts on a reduced-size device.
For example, user interface approaches designed for larger screens may not work well on
electronic devices having reduced-size screens. The smaller screen size may make it challenging
to read textual content associated with an alert, for example, or to provide accurate inputs to a
touchscreen. There may be insufficient screen space to display detailed device usage
instructions, thus making it important that the user interfaces be intuitive to learn and use. The
limited screen size may make displaying multiple tiled screens impractical; thus, replacing one
screen with another, and limiting the amount of information displayed on a single screen, may be
a more effective user interface strategy.
[0055]       In addition to the above usability concerns, there may be privacy concerns if the
reduced-size electronic device is worn externally by the user (by attaching it to a shirt, belt,
bracelet, or necklace, for example) rather than carried in a pocket, case, or purse, as is common
with larger electronic devices such as cellular phones or laptops. The user may be concerned
that others who are nearby will be able to view the alerts, so it may be desirable that such user
interfaces allow the user to control when and how much of the alert content is displayed.
Furthermore, if the device is worn by the user and is thus in closer contact with the user than, for
example, a cellular phone, it may be desirable that such user interfaces do not annoy the user
with frequent interruptions. Ideally, the user interface should make it quick, easy, and intuitive
for a user to view and respond to alerts on a reduced-size personal electronic device. Such
techniques can reduce the cognitive burden on a user who uses alerts, thereby enhancing
productivity. Further, such techniques can reduce processor and battery power otherwise wasted
on redundant user inputs.
                                                   8

1002183742
[0056]       Below, FIGS. 1A-IB, 2, 3, 4A-4B, and 5A-5B provide a description of exemplary
devices for performing the techniques for managing alert notifications. FIGS. 6A-24 illustrate
exemplary user interfaces for managing alert notifications. The user interfaces in the figures are
also used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in FIGS. 25-27.
[0057]       Although the following description uses terms "first," "second," etc. to describe
various elements, these elements should not be limited by the terms. These terms are only used
to distinguish one element from another. For example, a first touch could be termed a second
touch, and, similarly, a second touch could be termed a first touch, without departing from the
scope of the various described embodiments. The first touch and the second touch are both
touches, but they are not the same touch.
[0058]       The terminology used in the description of the various described embodiments herein
is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.
As used in the description of the various described embodiments and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a", "an," and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term "and/or" as used
herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the
associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms "includes," "including,"
"comprises," and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated
features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the
presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements,
components, and/or groups thereof.
[0059]       The term "if' may be construed to mean "when" or "upon" or "in response to
determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the context. Similarly, the phrase "if it
is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is detected" may be construed to mean "upon
determining" or "in response to determining" or "upon detecting [the stated condition or event]"
or *"inresponse to detecting [the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
[0060]       Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and associated
processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the device is a portable
communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains other functions, such as
PDA and/or music player functions. Exemplary embodiments of portable multifunction devices
include, without limitation, the iPhone@, iPod Touch®, and iPad@ devices from Apple Inc. of
Cupertino, California. Other portable electronic devices, such as laptops or tablet computers
                                                  9

1002183742
with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch screen displays and/or touchpads), are, optionally,
used. It should also be understood that, in some embodiments, the device is not a portable
communications device, but is a desktop computer with a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch
screen display and/or a touchpad).
[0061]      In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display and a
touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the electronic device
optionally includes one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a physical
keyboard, a mouse, and/or a joystick.
[0062]      The device may support a variety of applications, such as one or more of the
following: a drawing application, a presentation application, a word processing application, a
website creation application, a disk authoring application, a spreadsheet application, a gaming
application, a telephone application, a video conferencing application, an e-mail application, an
instant messaging application, a workout support application, a photo management application, a
digital camera application, a digital video camera application, a web browsing application, a
digital music player application, and/or a digital video player application.
[0063]      The various applications that are executed on the device optionally use at least one
common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One or more
functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information displayed on the
device are, optionally, adjusted and/or varied from one application to the next and/or within a
respective application. In this way, a common physical architecture (such as the touch-sensitive
surface) of the device optionally supports the variety of applications with user interfaces that are
intuitive and transparent to the user.
[0064]      Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with touch
sensitive displays. FIG. 1A is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction device 100
with touch-sensitive display system 112 in accordance with some embodiments. Touch-sensitive
display 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and is sometimes known as or
called a "touch-sensitive display system." Device 100 includes memory 102 (which optionally
includes one or more computer-readable storage mediums), memory controller 122, one or more
processing units (CPUs) 120, peripherals interface 118, RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110,
speaker 111, microphone 113, input/output (1/0) subsystem 106, other input control devices 116,
and external port 124. Device 100 optionally includes one or more optical sensors 164. Device
100 optionally includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of
                                                  10

1002183742
contacts on device 100 (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface such as touch-sensitive display system 112
of device 100). Device 100 optionally includes one or more tactile output generators 167 for
generating tactile outputs on device 100 (e.g., generating tactile outputs on a touch-sensitive
surface such as touch-sensitive display system 112 of device 100 or touchpad 355 of device
300). These components optionally communicate over one or more communication buses or
signal lines 103.
[0065]      As used in the specification and claims, the term "intensity" of a contact on a touch
sensitive surface refers to the force or pressure (force per unit area) of a contact (e.g., a finger
contact) on the touch-sensitive surface, or to a substitute (proxy) for the force or pressure of a
contact on the touch-sensitive surface. The intensity of a contact has a range of values that
includes at least four distinct values and more typically includes hundreds of distinct values (e.g.,
at least 256). Intensity of a contact is, optionally, determined (or measured) using various
approaches and various sensors or combinations of sensors. For example, one or more force
sensors underneath or adjacent to the touch-sensitive surface are, optionally, used to measure
force at various points on the touch-sensitive surface. In some implementations, force
measurements from multiple force sensors are combined (e.g., a weighted average) to determine
an estimated force of a contact. Similarly, a pressure-sensitive tip of a stylus is, optionally, used
to determine a pressure of the stylus on the touch-sensitive surface. Alternatively, the size of the
contact area detected on the touch-sensitive surface and/or changes thereto, the capacitance of
the touch-sensitive surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto, and/or the resistance
of the touch-sensitive surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto are, optionally,
used as a substitute for the force or pressure of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In
some implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are used
directly to determine whether an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity
threshold is described in units corresponding to the substitute measurements). In some
implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are converted to an
estimated force or pressure, and the estimated force or pressure is used to determine whether an
intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is a pressure threshold
measured in units of pressure). Using the intensity of a contact as an attribute of a user input
allows for user access to additional device functionality that may otherwise not be accessible by
the user on a reduced-size device with limited real estate for displaying affordances (e.g., on a
touch-sensitive display) and/or receiving user input (e.g., via a touch-sensitive display, a touch
sensitive surface, or a physical/mechanical control such as a knob or a button).
                                                   11

1002183742
[0066]       As used in the specification and claims, the term "tactile output" refers to physical
displacement of a device relative to a previous position of the device, physical displacement of a
component (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) of a device relative to another component (e.g.,
housing) of the device, or displacement of the component relative to a center of mass of the
device that will be detected by a user with the user's sense of touch. For example, in situations
where the device or the component of the device is in contact with a surface of a user that is
sensitive to touch (e.g., a finger, palm, or other part of a user's hand), the tactile output generated
by the physical displacement will be interpreted by the user as a tactile sensation corresponding
to a perceived change in physical characteristics of the device or the component of the device.
For example, movement of a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-sensitive display or trackpad)
is, optionally, interpreted by the user as a "down click" or "up click" of a physical actuator
button. In some cases, a user will feel a tactile sensation such as an "down click" or "up click"
even when there is no movement of a physical actuator button associated with the touch
sensitive surface that is physically pressed (e.g., displaced) by the user's movements. As another
example, movement of the touch-sensitive surface is, optionally, interpreted or sensed by the
user as "roughness" of the touch-sensitive surface, even when there is no change in smoothness
of the touch-sensitive surface. While such interpretations of touch by a user will be subject to
the individualized sensory perceptions of the user, there are many sensory perceptions of touch
that are common to a large majority of users. Thus, when a tactile output is described as
corresponding to a particular sensory perception of a user (e.g., an "up click," a "down click,"
"roughness"), unless otherwise stated, the generated tactile output corresponds to physical
displacement of the device or a component thereof that will generate the described sensory
perception for a typical (or average) user.
[0067]       It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 optionally has more or fewer components than shown,
optionally combines two or more components, or optionally has a different configuration or
arrangement of the components. The various components shown in FIG. 1A are implemented in
hardware, software, or a combination of both hardware and software, including one or more
signal processing and/or application-specific integrated circuits.
[0068]       Memory 102 may include one or more computer-readable storage mediums. The
computer-readable storage mediums may be tangible and non-transitory. Memory 102 may
include high-speed random access memory and may also include non-volatile memory, such as
one or more magnetic disk storage devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid
                                                   12

1002183742
state memory devices. Memory controller 122 may control access to memory 102 by other
components of device 100.
[0069]      Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of the
device to CPU 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute various
software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform various functions
for device 100 and to process data. In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU 120,
and memory controller 122 may be implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some
other embodiments, they may be implemented on separate chips.
[0070]      RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices via
the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 optionally includes well-known circuitry for
performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an RF transceiver,
one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC
chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108
optionally communicates with networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World Wide
Web (WWW), an intranet and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone network, a
wireless local area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan area network (MAN), and other devices
by wireless communication. The RF circuitry 108 optionally includes well-known circuitry for
detecting near field communication (NFC) fields, such as by a short-range communication radio.
The wireless communication optionally uses any of a plurality of communications standards,
protocols, and technologies, including but not limited to Global System for Mobile
Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink
packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink packet access (HSUPA), Evolution, Data-Only (EV
DO), HSPA, HSPA+, Dual-Cell HSPA (DC-HSPDA), long term evolution (LTE), near field
communication (NFC), wideband code division multiple access (W-CDMA), code division
multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low
Energy (BTLE), Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.1 la, IEEE 802.1 1b, IEEE 802.11 g,
IEEE 802.1 In, and/or IEEE 802.11 ac), voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a
protocol for e-mail (e.g., Internet message access protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol
(POP)), instant messaging (e.g., extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), Session
Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant
Messaging and Presence Service (IMPS)), and/or Short Message Service (SMS), or any other
                                                 13

1002183742
suitable communication protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of the
filing date of this document.
[0071]       Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio interface
between a user and device 100. Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from peripherals
interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the electrical signal to
speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible sound waves. Audio
circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone 113 from sound waves.
Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and transmits the audio data to
peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio data may be retrieved from and/or transmitted to
memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by peripherals interface 118. In some embodiments, audio
circuitry 110 also includes a headset jack (e.g., 212, FIG. 2). The headset jack provides an
interface between audio circuitry 110 and removable audio input/output peripherals, such as
output-only headphones or a headset with both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears)
and input (e.g., a microphone).
[0072]       I/O subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as touch
screen 112 and other input control devices 116, to peripherals interface 118. 1/0 subsystem 106
optionally includes display controller 156, optical sensor controller 158, intensity sensor
controller 159, haptic feedback controller 161, and one or more input controllers 160 for other
input or control devices. The one or more input controllers 160 receive/send electrical signals
from/to other input control devices 116. The other input control devices 116 optionally include
physical buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons, etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click
wheels, and so forth. In some alternate embodiments, input controller(s) 160 are, optionally,
coupled to any (or none) of the following: a keyboard, an infrared port, a USB port, and a pointer
device such as a mouse. The one or more buttons (e.g., 208, FIG. 2) optionally include an
up/down button for volume control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more
buttons optionally include a push button (e.g., 206, FIG. 2).
[0073]       A quick press of the push button may disengage a lock of touch screen 112 or begin a
process that uses gestures on the touch screen to unlock the device, as described in U.S. Patent
Application 11/322,549, "Unlocking a Device by Performing Gestures on an Unlock Image,"
filed December 23, 2005, U.S. Pat. No. 7,657,849, which is hereby incorporated by reference in
its entirety. A longer press of the push button (e.g., 206) may turn power to device 100 on or off.
                                                  14

1002183742
The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. Touch screen
112 is used to implement virtual or soft buttons and one or more soft keyboards.
[0074]      Touch-sensitive display 112 provides an input interface and an output interface
between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends electrical signals
from/to touch screen 112. Touch screen 112 displays visual output to the user. The visual
output may include graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination thereof (collectively termed
"graphics"). In some embodiments, some or all of the visual output may correspond to user
interface objects.
[0075]      Touch screen 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor, or set of sensors that accepts
input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch screen 112 and display
controller 156 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in memory 102)
detect contact (and any movement or breaking of the contact) on touch screen 112 and convert
the detected contact into interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one or more soft keys,
icons, web pages, or images) that are displayed on touch screen 112. In an exemplary
embodiment, a point of contact between touch screen 112 and the user corresponds to a finger of
the user.
[0076]      Touch screen 112 may use LCD (liquid crystal display) technology, LPD (light
emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting diode) technology, although other
display technologies may be used in other embodiments. Touch screen 112 and display
controller 156 may detect contact and any movement or breaking thereof using any of a plurality
of touch sensing technologies now known or later developed, including but not limited to
capacitive, resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic wave technologies, as well as other proximity
sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with touch screen
112. In an exemplary embodiment, projected mutual capacitance sensing technology is used,
such as that found in the iPhone@ and iPod Touch® from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
[0077]      A touch-sensitive display in some embodiments of touch screen 112 may be
analogous to the multi-touch sensitive touchpads described in the following U.S. Patents:
6,323,846 (Westerman et al.), 6,570,557 (Westerman et al.), and/or 6,677,932 (Westerman),
and/or U.S. Patent Publication 2002/0015024A1, each of which is hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety. However, touch screen 112 displays visual output from device 100,
whereas touch-sensitive touchpads do not provide visual output.
                                                  15

1002183742
[0078]      A touch-sensitive display in some embodiments of touch screen 112 may be as
described in the following applications: (1) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/381,313, "Multipoint
Touch Surface Controller," filed May 2, 2006; (2) U.S. Patent Application No. 10/840,862,
"Multipoint Touchscreen," filed May 6, 2004; (3) U.S. Patent Application No. 10/903,964,
"Gestures For Touch Sensitive Input Devices," filed July 30, 2004; (4) U.S. Patent Application
No. 11/048,264, "Gestures For Touch Sensitive Input Devices," filed January 31, 2005; (5) U.S.
Patent Application No. 11/038,590, "Mode-Based Graphical User Interfaces For Touch Sensitive
Input Devices," filed January 18, 2005; (6) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/228,758, "Virtual
Input Device Placement On A Touch Screen User Interface," filed September 16, 2005; (7) U.S.
Patent Application No. 11/228,700, "Operation Of A Computer With A Touch Screen Interface,"
filed September 16, 2005; (8) U.S. Patent Application No. 11/228,737, "Activating Virtual Keys
Of A Touch-Screen Virtual Keyboard," filed September 16, 2005; and (9) U.S. Patent
Application No. 11/367,749, "Multi-Functional Hand-Held Device," filed March 3, 2006. All of
these applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
[00791      Touch screen 112 may have a video resolution in excess of 100 dpi. In some
embodiments, the touch screen has a video resolution of approximately 160 dpi. The user may
make contact with touch screen 112 using any suitable object or appendage, such as a stylus, a
finger, and so forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed to work primarily with
finger-based contacts and gestures, which can be less precise than stylus-based input due to the
larger area of contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some embodiments, the device
translates the rough finger-based input into a precise pointer/cursor position or command for
performing the actions desired by the user.
[0080]      In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 may include a
touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some embodiments,
the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch screen, does not display
visual output. The touchpad may be a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from touch screen
112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive surface formed by the touch screen.
[0081]      Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various components.
Power system 162 may include a power management system, one or more power sources (e.g.,
battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power failure detection circuit, a power
converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light-emitting diode (LED)) and any other
                                                  16

1002183742
components associated with the generation, management and distribution of power in portable
devices.
[0082]       Device 100 may also include one or more optical sensors 164. FIG. 1A shows an
optical sensor coupled to optical sensor controller 158 in I/O subsystem 106. Optical sensor 164
may include charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary metal-oxide semiconductor
(CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensor 164 receives light from the environment, projected
through one or more lenses, and converts the light to data representing an image. In conjunction
with imaging module 143 (also called a camera module), optical sensor 164 may capture still
images or video. In some embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100,
opposite touch screen display 112 on the front of the device so that the touch screen display may
be used as a viewfinder for still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments, an
optical sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user's image may be obtained for
video conferencing while the user views the other video conference participants on the touch
screen display. In some embodiments, the position of optical sensor 164 can be changed by the
user (e.g., by rotating the lens and the sensor in the device housing) so that a single optical sensor
164 may be used along with the touch screen display for both video conferencing and still and/or
video image acquisition.
[0083]       Device 100 optionally also includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165.
FIG. 1A shows a contact intensity sensor coupled to intensity sensor controller 159 in 1/0
subsystem 106. Contact intensity sensor 165 optionally includes one or more piezoresistive
strain gauges, capacitive force sensors, electric force sensors, piezoelectric force sensors, optical
force sensors, capacitive touch-sensitive surfaces, or other intensity sensors (e.g., sensors used to
measure the force (or pressure) of a contact on a touch-sensitive surface). Contact intensity
sensor 165 receives contact intensity information (e.g., pressure information or a proxy for
pressure information) from the environment. In some embodiments, at least one contact
intensity sensor is collocated with, or proximate to, a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
sensitive display system 112). In some embodiments, at least one contact intensity sensor is
located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen display 112, which is located on the
front of device 100.
[0084]       Device 100 may also include one or more proximity sensors 166. FIG. 1A shows
proximity sensor 166 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately, proximity sensor 166
may be coupled to input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. Proximity sensor 166 may
                                                   17

1002183742
perform as described in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 11/241,839, "Proximity Detector In
Handheld Device"; 11/240,788, "Proximity Detector In Handheld Device"; 11/620,702, "Using
Ambient Light Sensor To Augment Proximity Sensor Output"; 11/586,862, "Automated
Response To And Sensing Of User Activity In Portable Devices"; and 11/638,251, "Methods
And Systems For Automatic Configuration Of Peripherals," which are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety. In some embodiments, the proximity sensor turns off and disables
touch screen 112 when the multifunction device is placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user
is making a phone call).
[0085]       Device 100 optionally also includes one or more tactile output generators 167.
FIG. 1A shows a tactile output generator coupled to haptic feedback controller 161 in I/O
subsystem 106. Tactile output generator 167 optionally includes one or more electroacoustic
devices such as speakers or other audio components and/or electromechanical devices that
convert energy into linear motion such as a motor, solenoid, electroactive polymer, piezoelectric
actuator, electrostatic actuator, or other tactile output generating component (e.g., a component
that converts electrical signals into tactile outputs on the device). Contact intensity sensor 165
receives tactile feedback generation instructions from haptic feedback module 133 and generates
tactile outputs on device 100 that are capable of being sensed by a user of device 100. In some
embodiments, at least one tactile output generator is collocated with, or proximate to, a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112) and, optionally, generates a tactile
output by moving the touch-sensitive surface vertically (e.g., in/out of a surface of device 100) or
laterally (e.g., back and forth in the same plane as a surface of device 100). In some
embodiments, at least one tactile output generator sensor is located on the back of device 100,
opposite touch screen display 112, which is located on the front of device 100.
[0086]       Device 100 may also include one or more accelerometers 168. FIG. 1A shows
accelerometer 168 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately, accelerometer 168 may be
coupled to an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. Accelerometer 168 may perform as
described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005/0190059, "Acceleration-based Theft Detection
System for Portable Electronic Devices," and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006/0017692,
"Methods And Apparatuses For Operating A Portable Device Based On An Accelerometer,"
both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. In some embodiments,
information is displayed on the touch screen display in a portrait view or a landscape view based
on an analysis of data received from the one or more accelerometers. Device 100 optionally
includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a magnetometer (not shown) and a GPS (or
                                                    18

1002183742
GLONASS or other global navigation system) receiver (not shown) for obtaining information
concerning the location and orientation (e.g., portrait or landscape) of device 100.
[0087]      In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion
module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, text input
module (or set of instructions) 134, Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of
instructions) 135, and applications (or sets of instructions) 136. Furthermore, in some
embodiments, memory 102 (FIG. 1A) or 370 (FIG. 3) stores device/global internal state 157, as
shown in FIGS. 1A and 3. Device/global internal state 157 includes one or more of: active
application state, indicating which applications, if any, are currently active; display state,
indicating what applications, views or other information occupy various regions of touch screen
display 112; sensor state, including information obtained from the device's various sensors and
input control devices 116; and location information concerning the device's location and/or
attitude.
[0088]      Operating system 126 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X, iOS,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software
components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates communication
between various hardware and software components.
[0089]      Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices over one or
more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for handling data
received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g., Universal Serial
Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other devices or indirectly over
a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some embodiments, the external port is a
multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or similar to and/or compatible with, the
30-pin connector used on iPod @ (trademark of Apple Inc.) devices.
[0090]      Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects contact with touch screen 112 (in
conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch-sensitive devices (e.g., a touchpad or
physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes various software components for
performing various operations related to detection of contact, such as determining if contact has
occurred (e.g., detecting a finger-down event), determining an intensity of the contact (e.g., the
force or pressure of the contact or a substitute for the force or pressure of the contact),
                                                  19

1002183742
determining if there is movement of the contact and tracking the movement across the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., detecting one or more finger-dragging events), and determining if the
contact has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger-up event or a break in contact). Contact/motion
module 130 receives contact data from the touch-sensitive surface. Determining movement of
the point of contact, which is represented by a series of contact data, optionally includes
determining speed (magnitude), velocity (magnitude and direction), and/or an acceleration (a
change in magnitude and/or direction) of the point of contact. These operations are, optionally,
applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger contacts) or to multiple simultaneous contacts (e.g.,
"multitouch"/multiple finger contacts). In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and
display controller 156 detect contact on a touchpad.
[0091]      In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 uses a set of one or more intensity
thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user (e.g., to determine
whether a user has "clicked" on an icon). In some embodiments, at least a subset of the intensity
thresholds are determined in accordance with software parameters (e.g., the intensity thresholds
are not determined by the activation thresholds of particular physical actuators and can be
adjusted without changing the physical hardware of device 100). For example, a mouse "click"
threshold of a trackpad or touch screen display can be set to any of a large range of predefined
threshold values without changing the trackpad or touch screen display hardware. Additionally,
in some implementations, a user of the device is provided with software settings for adjusting
one or more of the set of intensity thresholds (e.g., by adjusting individual intensity thresholds
and/or by adjusting a plurality of intensity thresholds at once with a system-level click
"intensity" parameter).
[0092]      Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects a gesture input by a user. Different
gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns (e.g., different motions,
timings, and/or intensities of detected contacts). Thus, a gesture is, optionally, detected by
detecting a particular contact pattern. For example, detecting a finger tap gesture includes
detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger-up (liftoff) event at the same
position (or substantially the same position) as the finger-down event (e.g., at the position of an
icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe gesture on the touch-sensitive surface
includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting one or more finger-dragging
events, and subsequently followed by detecting a finger-up (liftoff) event.
                                                  20

1002183742
[0093]      Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for rendering and
displaying graphics on touch screen 112 or other display, including components for changing the
visual impact (e.g., brightness, transparency, saturation, contrast, or other visual property) of
graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the term "graphics" includes any object that can be
displayed to a user, including, without limitation, text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface
objects including soft keys), digital images, videos, animations, and the like.
[0094]      In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics to be
used. Each graphic is, optionally, assigned a corresponding code. Graphics module 132
receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be displayed along
with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then generates screen
image data to output to display controller 156.
[0095]      Haptic feedback module 133 includes various software components for generating
instructions used by tactile output generator(s) 167 to produce tactile outputs at one or more
locations on device 100 in response to user interactions with device 100.
[0096]      Text input module 134, which may be a component of graphics module 132, provides
soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137, e-mail 140, IM 141,
browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[0097]      GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this information
for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based dialing; to camera
143 as picture/video metadata; and to applications that provide location-based services such as
weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation widgets).
[0098]      Applications 136 may include the following modules (or sets of instructions), or a
subset or superset thereof:
     * Contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
     " Telephone module 138;
     * Video conference module 139;
     * E-mail client module 140;
     * Instant messaging (IM) module 141;
                                                  21

1002183742
     *   Workout support module 142;
     *   Camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
     *   Image management module 144;
     *   Video player module;
     *   Music player module;
     *   Browser module 147;
     *   Calendar module 148;
     *   Widget modules 149, which may include one or more of: weather widget 149-1, stocks
         widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, dictionary widget 149
         5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user-created widgets 149-6;
     *   Widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
     *   Search module 151;
     *   Video and music player module 152, which merges video player module and music
         player module;
     *   Notes module 153;
     *   Map module 154; and/or
     *   Online video module 155.
[0099]       Examples of other applications 136 that may be stored in memory 102 include other
word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing applications,
presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital rights management,
voice recognition, and voice replication.
[00100]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module
130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137 may be used to
manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in application internal state 192 of contacts
module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370), including: adding name(s) to the address book;
                                                 22

1002183742
deleting name(s) from the address book; associating telephone number(s), e-mail address(es),
physical address(es) or other information with a name; associating an image with a name;
categorizing and sorting names; providing telephone numbers or e-mail addresses to initiate
and/or facilitate communications by telephone 138, video conference module 139, e-mail 140, or
IM 141; and so forth.
[00101]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone
113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132,
and text input module 134, telephone module 138 may be used to enter a sequence of characters
corresponding to a telephone number, access one or more telephone numbers in contacts module
137, modify a telephone number that has been entered, dial a respective telephone number,
conduct a conversation, and disconnect or hang up when the conversation is completed. As
noted above, the wireless communication may use any of a plurality of communications
standards, protocols, and technologies.
[00102]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone
113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor 164, optical sensor controller 158,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, contacts module 137,
and telephone module 138, video conference module 139 includes executable instructions to
initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference between a user and one or more other
participants in accordance with user instructions.
[00103]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, e-mail client
module 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and manage e-mail in
response to user instructions. In conjunction with image management module 144, e-mail client
module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still or video images taken with
camera module 143.
[00104]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, the instant
messaging module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters
corresponding to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to transmit a
respective instant message (for example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or Multimedia
Message Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or using XMPP,
SIMPLE, or IMPS for Internet-based instant messages), to receive instant messages, and to view
                                                 23

1002183742
received instant messages. In some embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant messages
may include graphics, photos, audio files, video files and/or other attachments as are supported
in an MMS and/or an Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS). As used herein, "instant messaging"
refers to both telephony-based messages (e.g., messages sent using SMS or MMS) and Internet
based messages (e.g., messages sent using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS).
[00105]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, map
module 154, and music player module, workout support module 142 includes executable
instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or calorie burning goals);
communicate with workout sensors (sports devices); receive workout sensor data; calibrate
sensors used to monitor a workout; select and play music for a workout; and display, store, and
transmit workout data.
[00106]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s) 164,
optical sensor controller 158, contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, and image
management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable instructions to capture still
images or video (including a video stream) and store them into memory 102, modify
characteristics of a still image or video, or delete a still image or video from memory 102.
[00107]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module
130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143, image management
module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g., edit), or otherwise
manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album), and store still and/or
video images.
[00108]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, browser module
147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in accordance with user instructions,
including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying web pages or portions thereof, as well
as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[00109]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, e-mail client module
140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes executable instructions to create,
                                                   24

1002183742
display, modify, and store calendars and data associated with calendars (e.g., calendar entries, to
do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
[00110]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and browser module
147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that may be downloaded and used by a user (e.g.,
weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4,
and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the user (e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some
embodiments, a widget includes an HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS
(Cascading Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript file. In some embodiments, a widget includes an
XML (Extensible Markup Language) file and a JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
[00111]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and browser module
147, the widget creator module 150 may be used by a user to create widgets (e.g., turning a user
specified portion of a web page into a widget).
[00112]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module
130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search module 151 includes executable
instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video, and/or other files in memory 102 that
match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more user-specified search terms) in accordance
with user instructions.
[00113]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module
130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, and browser
module 147, video and music player module 152 includes executable instructions that allow the
user to download and play back recorded music and other sound files stored in one or more file
formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and executable instructions to display, present or otherwise
play back videos (e.g., on touch screen 112 or on an external, connected display via external port
124). In some embodiments, device 100 optionally includes the functionality of an MP3 player,
such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[00114]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module
130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153 includes executable
instructions to create and manage notes, to-do lists, and the like in accordance with user
instructions.
                                                   25

1002183742
[00115]     In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact/motion module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, and
browser module 147, map module 154 may be used to receive, display, modify, and store maps
and data associated with maps (e.g., driving directions, data on stores and other points of interest
at or near a particular location, and other location-based data) in accordance with user
instructions.
[00116]     In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact/motion module
130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, text input module
134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, online video module 155 includes
instructions that allow the user to access, browse, receive (e.g., by streaming and/or download),
play back (e.g., on the touch screen or on an external, connected display via external port 124),
send an e-mail with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise manage online videos in
one or more file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments, instant messaging module 141,
rather than e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link to a particular online video.
Additional description of the online video application can be found in U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 60/936,562, "Portable Multifunction Device, Method, and Graphical User
Interface for Playing Online Videos," filed June 20, 2007, and U.S. Patent Application No.
11/968,067, "Portable Multifunction Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Playing
Online Videos," filed December 31, 2007, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
[00117]     Each of the above-identified modules and applications corresponds to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the methods
described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other information
processing methods described herein). These modules (e.g., sets of instructions) need not be
implemented as separate software programs, procedures, or modules, and thus various subsets of
these modules may be combined or otherwise rearranged in various embodiments. For example,
video player module may be combined with music player module into a single module (e.g.,
video and music player module 152, FIG. 1A). In some embodiments, memory 102 may store a
subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 102 may store
additional modules and data structures not described above.
[00118]     In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined set of
functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a touchpad. By
                                                   26

1002183742
using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device for operation of
device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push buttons, dials, and the
like) on device 100 may be reduced.
[00119]     The predefined set of functions that are performed exclusively through a touch screen
and/or a touchpad optionally include navigation between user interfaces. In some embodiments,
the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main, home, or root menu
from any user interface that is displayed on device 100. In such embodiments, a "menu button"
is implemented using a touchpad. In some other embodiments, the menu button is a physical
push button or other physical input control device instead of a touchpad.
[00120]     FIG. 1B is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event handling in
accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 (FIG. 1A) or 370
(FIG. 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system 126) and a respective application
136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 137-151, 155, 380-390).
[00121]     Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application 136-1 and
application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event information. Event
sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module 174. In some embodiments,
application 136-1 includes application internal state 192, which indicates the current application
view(s) displayed on touch-sensitive display 112 when the application is active or executing. In
some embodiments, device/global internal state 157 is used by event sorter 170 to determine
which application(s) is (are) currently active, and application internal state 192 is used by event
sorter 170 to determine application views 191 to which to deliver event information.
[00122]     In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional information,
such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136-1 resumes
execution, user interface state information that indicates information being displayed or that is
ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the user to go back to a prior
state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of previous actions taken by the user.
[00123]     Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface 118. Event
information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch-sensitive display
112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118 transmits information it receives
from I/O subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity sensor 166, accelerometer(s) 168, and/or
microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110). Information that peripherals interface 118
                                                  27

1002183742
receives from I/O subsystem 106 includes information from touch-sensitive display 112 or a
touch-sensitive surface.
[00124]     In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals interface
118 at predetermined intervals. In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits event
information. In other embodiments, peripherals interface 118 transmits event information only
when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a predetermined noise threshold
and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
[00125]     In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view determination module
172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[00126]     Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for determining
where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch-sensitive display 112
displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and other elements that a user can
see on the display.
[00127]     Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of views,
sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which information is
displayed and touch-based gestures occur. The application views (of a respective application) in
which a touch is detected may correspond to programmatic levels within a programmatic or view
hierarchy of the application. For example, the lowest level view in which a touch is detected
may be called the hit view, and the set of events that are recognized as proper inputs may be
determined based, at least in part, on the hit view of the initial touch that begins a touch-based
gesture.
[00128]     Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub-events of a
touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a hierarchy, hit view
determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in the hierarchy which should
handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is the lowest level view in which an
initiating sub-event occurs (e.g., the first sub-event in the sequence of sub-events that form an
event or potential event). Once the hit view is identified by the hit view determination module
172, the hit view typically receives all sub-events related to the same touch or input source for
which it was identified as the hit view.
[00129]     Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or views
within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
                                                   28

1002183742
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the hit
view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active event
recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the physical location
of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that all actively involved
views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, even if touch
sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with one particular view, views higher in
the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved views.
[00130]     Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event recognizer
(e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer determination
module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to an event recognizer
determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In some embodiments, event
dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event information, which is retrieved by a
respective event receiver 182.
[00131]     In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170. Alternatively,
application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments, event sorter 170 is a
stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory 102, such as contact/motion
module 130.
[00132]     In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event handlers 190
and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for handling touch
events that occur within a respective view of the application's user interface. Each application
view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event recognizers 180. Typically, a
respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event recognizers 180. In other
embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a separate module, such as a user
interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from which application 136-1 inherits methods
and other properties. In some embodiments, a respective event handler 190 includes one or more
of: data updater 176, object updater 177, GUI updater 178, and/or event data 179 received from
event sorter 170. Event handler 190 may utilize or call data updater 176, object updater 177, or
GUI updater 178 to update the application internal state 192. Alternatively, one or more of the
application views 191 include one or more respective event handlers 190. Also, in some
embodiments, one or more of data updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are
included in a respective application view 191.
                                                 29

1002183742
[00133]      A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event data 179)
from event sorter 170 and identifies an event from the event information. Event recognizer 180
includes event receiver 182 and event comparator 184. In some embodiments, event recognizer
180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and event delivery instructions 188 (which
may include sub-event delivery instructions).
[00134]      Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170. The event
information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch movement.
Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional information, such as
location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a touch, the event information
may also include speed and direction of the sub-event. In some embodiments, events include
rotation of the device from one orientation to another (e.g., from a portrait orientation to a
landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the event information includes corresponding
information about the current orientation (also called device attitude) of the device.
[00135]      Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or sub
event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or determines
or updates the state of an event or sub-event. In some embodiments, event comparator 184
includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions of events (e.g.,
predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2 (187-2), and others.
In some embodiments, sub-events in an event (187) include, for example, touch begin, touch
end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple touching. In one example, the definition
for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed object. The double tap, for example, comprises
a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a first liftoff (touch
end) for a predetermined phase, a second touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a
predetermined phase, and a second liftoff (touch end) for a predetermined phase. In another
example, the definition for event 2 (187-2) is a dragging on a displayed object. The dragging,
for example, comprises a touch (or contact) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a
movement of the touch across touch-sensitive display 112, and liftoff of the touch (touch end).
In some embodiments, the event also includes information for one or more associated event
handlers 190.
[00136]      In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event for a
respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184 performs a hit test
to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event. For example, in an
                                                 30

1002183742
application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on touch-sensitive display
112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display 112, event comparator 184 performs a
hit test to determine which of the three user-interface objects is associated with the touch (sub
event). If each displayed object is associated with a respective event handler 190, the event
comparator uses the result of the hit test to determine which event handler 190 should be
activated. For example, event comparator 184 selects an event handler associated with the sub
event and the object triggering the hit test.
[00137]      In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event (187) also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been determined
whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event recognizer's event
type.
[00138]      When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub-events do
not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event recognizer 180 enters
an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it disregards subsequent sub
events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event recognizers, if any, that remain
active for the hit view continue to track and process sub-events of an ongoing touch-based
gesture.
[00139]      In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata 183 with
configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery system should
perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some embodiments,
metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how event
recognizers may interact, or are enabled to interact, with one another. In some embodiments,
metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate whether sub
events are delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic hierarchy.
[00140]      In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event handler 190
associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event are recognized. In
some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event information associated with
the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler 190 is distinct from sending (and
deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In some embodiments, event recognizer
180 throws a flag associated with the recognized event, and event handler 190 associated with
the flag catches the flag and performs a predefined process.
                                                   31

1002183742
[00141]     In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event delivery
instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an event handler.
Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to event handlers
associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views. Event handlers associated
with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive the event information and
perform a predetermined process.
[00142]     In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in application
136-1. For example, data updater 176 updates the telephone number used in contacts module
137, or stores a video file used in video player module. In some embodiments, object updater
177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1. For example, object updater 177
creates a new user-interface object or updates the position of a user-interface object. GUI
updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater 178 prepares display information and
sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a touch-sensitive display.
[00143]     In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data updater
176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater 176, object
updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a respective application
136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are included in two or more software
modules.
[00144]     It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling of user
touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to operate
multifunction devices 100 with input devices, not all of which are initiated on touch screens. For
example, mouse movement and mouse button presses, optionally coordinated with single or
multiple keyboard presses or holds; contact movements such as taps, drags, scrolls, etc., on
touchpads; pen stylus inputs; movement of the device; oral instructions; detected eye
movements; biometric inputs; and/or any combination thereof are optionally utilized as inputs
corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be recognized.
[00145]     FIG. 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen 112 in
accordance with some embodiments. The touch screen optionally displays one or more graphics
within user interface (UI) 200. In this embodiment, as well as others described below, a user is
enabled to select one or more of the graphics by making a gesture on the graphics, for example,
with one or more fingers 202 (not drawn to scale in the figure) or one or more styluses 203 (not
drawn to scale in the figure). In some embodiments, selection of one or more graphics occurs
                                                  32

1002183742
when the user breaks contact with the one or more graphics. In some embodiments, the gesture
optionally includes one or more taps, one or more swipes (from left to right, right to left, upward
and/or downward), and/or a rolling of a finger (from right to left, left to right, upward and/or
downward) that has made contact with device 100. In some implementations or circumstances,
inadvertent contact with a graphic does not select the graphic. For example, a swipe gesture that
sweeps over an application icon optionally does not select the corresponding application when
the gesture corresponding to selection is a tap.
[00146]     Device 100 may also include one or more physical buttons, such as "home" or menu
button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 may be used to navigate to any
application 136 in a set of applications that may be executed on device 100. Alternatively, in
some embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft key in a GUI displayed on touch
screen 112.
[00147]     In one embodiment, device 100 includes touch screen 112, menu button 204, push
button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume adjustment button(s)
208, subscriber identity module (SIM) card slot 210, headset jack 212, and docking/charging
external port 124. Push button 206 is, optionally, used to turn the power on/off on the device by
depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed state for a predefined time interval;
to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing the button before the predefined time
interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or initiate an unlock process. In an alternative
embodiment, device 100 also accepts verbal input for activation or deactivation of some
functions through microphone 113. Device 100 also, optionally, includes one or more contact
intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of contacts on touch screen 112 and/or one or more
tactile output generators 167 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 100.
[00148]     FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a display and a
touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments. Device 300 need not be portable.
In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a tablet computer, a
multimedia player device, a navigation device, an educational device (such as a child's learning
toy), a gaming system, or a control device (e.g., a home or industrial controller). Device 300
typically includes one or more processing units (CPUs) 310, one or more network or other
communications interfaces 360, memory 370, and one or more communication buses 320 for
interconnecting these components. Communication buses 320 optionally include circuitry
(sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls communications between system
                                                  33

1002183742
components. Device 300 includes input/output (1/0) interface 330 comprising display 340,
which is typically a touch screen display. 11O interface 330 also optionally includes a keyboard
and/or mouse (or other pointing device) 350 and touchpad 355, tactile output generator 357 for
generating tactile outputs on device 300 (e.g., similar to tactile output generator(s) 167 described
above with reference to FIG. 1A), sensors 359 (e.g., optical, acceleration, proximity, touch
sensitive, and/or contact intensity sensors similar to contact intensity sensor(s) 165 described
above with reference to FIG. 1A). Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory,
such as DRAM, SRAM, DDR RAM, or other random access solid state memory devices; and
optionally includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices,
optical disk storage devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage
devices. Memory 370 optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located from
CPU(s) 310. In some embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules, and data structures
analogous to the programs, modules, and data structures stored in memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100 (FIG. 1A), or a subset thereof. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally
stores additional programs, modules, and data structures not present in memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100. For example, memory 370 of device 300 optionally stores drawing
module 380, presentation module 382, word processing module 384, website creation module
386, disk authoring module 388, and/or spreadsheet module 390, while memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100 (FIG. 1A) optionally does not store these modules.
[00149]      Each of the above-identified elements in FIG. 3 may be stored in one or more of the
previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above-identified modules corresponds to a
set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above-identified modules or
programs (e.g., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as separate software programs,
procedures, or modules, and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or
otherwise rearranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 370 may store a
subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 370 may store
additional modules and data structures not described above.
[00150]      Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces that may be
implemented on, for example, portable multifunction device 100.
[00151]      FIG. 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on portable
multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments. Similar user interfaces may be
                                                  34

1002183742
implemented on device 300. In some embodiments, user interface 400 includes the following
elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
     *   Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and Wi
         Fi signals;
     * Time 404;
     * Bluetooth indicator 405;
     * Battery status indicator 406;
     * Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
             o Icon 416 for telephone module 138, labeled "Phone," which optionally includes
                 an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls or voicemail messages;
             o Icon 418 for e-mail client module 140, labeled "Mail," which optionally includes
                 an indicator 410 of the number of unread e-mails;
             o Icon 420 for browser module 147, labeled "Browser;" and
             o Icon 422 for video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod
                 (trademark of Apple Inc.) module 152, labeled "iPod;" and
     * Icons for other applications, such as:
             o Icon 424 for IM module 141, labeled "Messages;"
             o Icon 426 for calendar module 148, labeled "Calendar;"
             o Icon 428 for image management module 144, labeled "Photos;"
             o Icon 430 for camera module 143, labeled "Camera;"
             o Icon 432 for online video module 155, labeled "Online Video;"
             o Icon 434 for stocks widget 149-2, labeled "Stocks;"
             o Icon 436 for map module 154, labeled "Maps;"
             o Icon 438 for weather widget 149-1, labeled "Weather;"
             o Icon 440 for alarm clock widget 149-4, labeled "Clock;"
             o Icon 442 for workout support module 142, labeled "Workout Support;"
                                                  35

1002183742
            o    Icon 444 for notes module 153, labeled "Notes;" and
            o    Icon 446 for a settings application or module, labeled "Settings," which provides
                 access to settings for device 100 and its various applications 136.
[00152]     It should be noted that the icon labels illustrated in FIG. 4A are merely exemplary.
For example, icon 422 for video and music player module 152 may optionally be labeled
"Music" or "Music Player." Other labels are, optionally, used for various application icons. In
some embodiments, a label for a respective application icon includes a name of an application
corresponding to the respective application icon. In some embodiments, a label for a particular
application icon is distinct from a name of an application corresponding to the particular
application icon.
[00153]     FIG. 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300, FIG. 3)
with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, FIG. 3) that is separate from
the display 450 (e.g., touch screen display 112). Device 300 also, optionally, includes one or
more contact intensity sensors (e.g., one or more of sensors 357) for detecting intensity of
contacts on touch-sensitive surface 451 and/or one or more tactile output generators 359 for
generating tactile outputs for a user of device 300.
[00154]     Although some of the examples which follow will be given with reference to inputs
on touch screen display 112 (where the touch-sensitive surface and the display are combined), in
some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from
the display, as shown in FIG. 4B. In some embodiments, the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in
FIG. 4B) has a primary axis (e.g., 452 in FIG. 4B) that corresponds to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in
FIG. 4B) on the display (e.g., 450). In accordance with these embodiments, the device detects
contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in FIG. 4B) with the touch-sensitive surface 451 at locations that
correspond to respective locations on the display (e.g., in FIG. 4B, 460 corresponds to 468 and
462 corresponds to 470). In this way, user inputs (e.g., contacts 460 and 462, and movements
thereof) detected by the device on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in FIG. 4B) are used by
the device to manipulate the user interface on the display (e.g., 450 in FIG. 4B) of the
multifunction device when the touch-sensitive surface is separate from the display. It should be
understood that similar methods are, optionally, used for other user interfaces described herein.
[00155]     Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with reference to
finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures), it should be
understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are replaced with input
                                                   36

1002183742
from another input device (e.g., a mouse-based input or stylus input). For example, a swipe
gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a contact) followed by
movement of the cursor along the path of the swipe (e.g., instead of movement of the contact).
As another example, a tap gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click while the cursor is
located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead of detection of the contact followed by
ceasing to detect the contact). Similarly, when multiple user inputs are simultaneously detected,
it should be understood that multiple computer mice are, optionally, used simultaneously, or a
mouse and finger contacts are, optionally, used simultaneously.
[00156]     FIG. 5A illustrates exemplary personal electronic device 500. Device 500 includes
body 502. In some embodiments, device 500 can include some or all of the features described
with respect to devices 100 and 300 (e.g., FIGS. 1A-4B). In some embodiments, device 500 has
touch-sensitive display screen 504, hereafter touch screen 504. Alternatively, or in addition to
touch screen 504, device 500 has a display and a touch-sensitive surface. As with devices 100
and 300, in some embodiments, touch screen 504 (or the touch-sensitive surface) may have one
or more intensity sensors for detecting intensity of contacts (e.g., touches) being applied. The
one or more intensity sensors of touch screen 504 (or the touch-sensitive surface) can provide
output data that represents the intensity of touches. The user interface of device 500 can respond
to touches based on their intensity, meaning that touches of different intensities can invoke
different user interface operations on device 500.
[00157]     Techniques for detecting and processing touch intensity may be found, for example,
in related applications: International Patent Application Serial No. PCT/US2013/040061, titled
"Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for Displaying User Interface Objects
Corresponding to an Application," filed May 8, 2013, and International Patent Application Serial
No. PCT/US2013/069483, titled "Device, Method, and Graphical User Interface for
Transitioning Between Touch Input to Display Output Relationships," filed November 11, 2013,
each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[00158]     In some embodiments, device 500 has one or more input mechanisms 506 and 508.
Input mechanisms 506 and 508, if included, can be physical. Examples of physical input
mechanisms include push buttons and rotatable mechanisms. In some embodiments, device 500
has one or more attachment mechanisms. Such attachment mechanisms, if included, can permit
attachment of device 500 with, for example, hats, eyewear, earrings, necklaces, shirts, jackets,
                                                   37

1002183742
bracelets, watch straps, chains, trousers, belts, shoes, purses, backpacks, and so forth. These
attachment mechanisms may permit device 500 to be worn by a user.
[00159]     FIG. 5B depicts exemplary personal electronic device 500. In some embodiments,
device 500 can include some or all of the components described with respect to FIGS. 1A, 1B,
and 3. Device 500 has bus 512 that operatively couples I/O section 514 with one or more
computer processors 516 and memory 518. I/O section 514 can be connected to display 504,
which can have touch-sensitive component 522 and, optionally, intensity sensor 524 (e.g.,
contact intensity sensor). In addition, 1/0 section 514 can be connected with communication unit
530 for receiving application and operating system data, using Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, near field
communication (NFC), cellular, and/or other wireless communication techniques. Device 500
can include input mechanisms 506 and/or 508. Input mechanism 506 may be a rotatable input
device or a depressible and rotatable input device, for example. Input mechanism 508 may be a
button, in some examples.
[00160]     Input mechanism 508 may be a microphone, in some examples. Personal electronic
device 500 can include various sensors, such as GPS sensor 532, accelerometer 534, directional
sensor 540 (e.g., compass), gyroscope 536, motion sensor 538, and/or a combination thereof, all
of which can be operatively connected to 1/0 section 514. Personal electronic device 500 can
also include haptic mechanism 542. Haptic mechanism 542 may issue a vibration or other haptic
output that can be perceived by a user. In some embodiments, haptic mechanism 542 may issue
haptic outputs in a manner similar to that described for tactile output generator 167 of device
100.
[00161]     Memory 518 of personal electronic device 500 can be a non-transitory computer
readable storage medium, for storing computer-executable instructions, which, when executed by
one or more computer processors 516, for example, can cause the computer processors to
perform the techniques described above, including processes 2500-2700 (FIGS. 25-27). The
computer-executable instructions can also be stored and/or transported within any non-transitory
computer-readable storage medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution
system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer-based system, processor-containing system, or
other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or
device and execute the instructions. For purposes of this document, a "non-transitory computer
readable storage medium" can be any medium that can tangibly contain or store computer
executable instructions for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system,
                                                   38

1002183742
apparatus, or device. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium can include, but is
not limited to, magnetic, optical, and/or semiconductor storages. Examples of such storage
include magnetic disks, optical discs based on CD, DVD, or Blu-ray technologies, as well as
persistent solid-state memory such as flash, solid-state drives, and the like. Personal electronic
device 500 is not limited to the components and configuration of FIG. 5B, but can include other
or additional components in multiple configurations.
[00162]      As used here, the term "affordance" refers to a user-interactive graphical user
interface object that may be displayed on the display screen of devices 100, 300, and/or 500
(FIGS. 1, 3, and 5). For example, an image (e.g., icon), a button, and text (e.g., hyperlink) may
each constitute an affordance.
[00163]      As used herein, the term "focus selector" refers to an input element that indicates a
current part of a user interface with which a user is interacting. In some implementations that
include a cursor or other location marker, the cursor acts as a "focus selector" so that when an
input (e.g., a press input) is detected on a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touchpad 355 in FIG. 3 or
touch-sensitive surface 451 in FIG. 4B) while the cursor is over a particular user interface
element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user interface element), the particular user
interface element is adjusted in accordance with the detected input. In some implementations
that include a touch screen display (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112 in FIG. 1A or touch
screen 112 in FIG. 4A) that enables direct interaction with user interface elements on the touch
screen display, a detected contact on the touch screen acts as a "focus selector" so that when an
input (e.g., a press input by the contact) is detected on the touch screen display at a location of a
particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider, or other user interface element),
the particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the detected input. In some
implementations, focus is moved from one region of a user interface to another region of the user
interface without corresponding movement of a cursor or movement of a contact on a touch
screen display (e.g., by using a tab key or arrow keys to move focus from one button to another
button); in these implementations, the focus selector moves in accordance with movement of
focus between different regions of the user interface. Without regard to the specific form taken
by the focus selector, the focus selector is generally the user interface element (or contact on a
touch screen display) that is controlled by the user so as to communicate the user's intended
interaction with the user interface (e.g., by indicating, to the device, the element of the user
interface with which the user is intending to interact). For example, the location of a focus
selector (e.g., a cursor, a contact, or a selection box) over a respective button while a press input
                                                    39

1002183742
is detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touchpad or touch screen) will indicate that the
user is intending to activate the respective button (as opposed to other user interface elements
shown on a display of the device).
[00164]      As used in the specification and claims, the term "characteristic intensity" of a
contact refers to a characteristic of the contact based on one or more intensities of the contact. In
some embodiments, the characteristic intensity is based on multiple intensity samples. The
characteristic intensity is, optionally, based on a predefined number of intensity samples, or a set
of intensity samples collected during a predetermined time period (e.g., 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2,
5, 10 seconds) relative to a predefined event (e.g., after detecting the contact, prior to detecting
liftoff of the contact, before or after detecting a start of movement of the contact, prior to
detecting an end of the contact, before or after detecting an increase in intensity of the contact,
and/or before or after detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact). A characteristic intensity
of a contact is, optionally based on one or more of: a maximum value of the intensities of the
contact, a mean value of the intensities of the contact, an average value of the intensities of the
contact, a top 10 percentile value of the intensities of the contact, a value at the half maximum of
the intensities of the contact, a value at the 90 percent maximum of the intensities of the contact,
or the like. In some embodiments, the duration of the contact is used in determining the
characteristic intensity (e.g., when the characteristic intensity is an average of the intensity of the
contact over time). In some embodiments, the characteristic intensity is compared to a set of one
or more intensity thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user.
For example, the set of one or more intensity thresholds may include a first intensity threshold
and a second intensity threshold. In this example, a contact with a characteristic intensity that
does not exceed the first threshold results in a first operation, a contact with a characteristic
intensity that exceeds the first intensity threshold and does not exceed the second intensity
threshold results in a second operation, and a contact with a characteristic intensity that exceeds
the second threshold results in a third operation. In some embodiments, a comparison between
the characteristic intensity and one or more thresholds is used to determine whether or not to
perform one or more operations (e.g., whether to perform a respective operation or forgo
performing the respective operation) rather than being used to determine whether to perform a
first operation or a second operation.
[00165]      FIG. 5C illustrates detecting a plurality of contacts 552A-552E on touch-sensitive
display screen 504 with a plurality of intensity sensors 524A-524D. FIG. 5C additionally
includes intensity diagrams that show the current intensity measurements of the intensity sensors
                                                    40

1002183742
524A-524D relative to units of intensity. In this example, the intensity measurements of
intensity sensors 524A and 524D are each 9 units of intensity, and the intensity measurements of
intensity sensors 524B and 524C are each 7 units of intensity. In some implementations, an
aggregate intensity is the sum of the intensity measurements of the plurality of intensity sensors
524A-524D, which in this example is 32 intensity units. In some embodiments, each contact is
assigned a respective intensity that is a portion of the aggregate intensity. FIG. 5D illustrates
assigning the aggregate intensity to contacts 552A-552E based on their distance from the center
of force 554. In this example, each of contacts 552A, 552B and 552E are assigned an intensity
of contact of 8 intensity units of the aggregate intensity, and each of contacts 552C and 552D are
assigned an intensity of contact of 4 intensity units of the aggregate intensity. More generally, in
some implementations, each contact j is assigned a respective intensity Ij that is a portion of the
aggregate intensity, A, in accordance with a predefined mathematical function, Ij = A (Dj/IDi),
where Dj is the distance of the respective contact j to the center of force, and IDi is the sum of
the distances of all the respective contacts (e.g., i=1 to last) to the center of force. The operations
described with reference to FIGS. 5C-5D can be performed using an electronic device similar or
identical to device 100, 300, or 500. In some embodiments, a characteristic intensity of a contact
is based on one or more intensities of the contact. In some embodiments, the intensity sensors
are used to determine a single characteristic intensity (e.g., a single characteristic intensity of a
single contact). It should be noted that the intensity diagrams are not part of a displayed user
interface, but are included in FIGS. 5C-5D to aid the reader.
[00166]     In some embodiments, a portion of a gesture is identified for purposes of determining
a characteristic intensity. For example, a touch-sensitive surface may receive a continuous swipe
contact transitioning from a start location and reaching an end location, at which point the
intensity of the contact increases. In this example, the characteristic intensity of the contact at
the end location may be based on only a portion of the continuous swipe contact, and not the
entire swipe contact (e.g., only the portion of the swipe contact at the end location). In some
embodiments, a smoothing algorithm may be applied to the intensities of the swipe contact prior
to determining the characteristic intensity of the contact. For example, the smoothing algorithm
optionally includes one or more of: an unweighted sliding-average smoothing algorithm, a
triangular smoothing algorithm, a median filter smoothing algorithm, and/or an exponential
smoothing algorithm. In some circumstances, these smoothing algorithms eliminate narrow
spikes or dips in the intensities of the swipe contact for purposes of determining a characteristic
intensity.
                                                   41

1002183742
[00167]     The intensity of a contact on the touch-sensitive surface may be characterized relative
to one or more intensity thresholds, such as a contact-detection intensity threshold, a light press
intensity threshold, a deep press intensity threshold, and/or one or more other intensity
thresholds. In some embodiments, the light press intensity threshold corresponds to an intensity
at which the device will perform operations typically associated with clicking a button of a
physical mouse or a trackpad. In some embodiments, the deep press intensity threshold
corresponds to an intensity at which the device will perform operations that are different from
operations typically associated with clicking a button of a physical mouse or a trackpad. In some
embodiments, when a contact is detected with a characteristic intensity below the light press
intensity threshold (e.g., and above a nominal contact-detection intensity threshold below which
the contact is no longer detected), the device will move a focus selector in accordance with
movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface without performing an operation
associated with the light press intensity threshold or the deep press intensity threshold.
Generally, unless otherwise stated, these intensity thresholds are consistent between different
sets of user interface figures.
[00168]     An increase of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below the light
press intensity threshold to an intensity between the light press intensity threshold and the deep
press intensity threshold is sometimes referred to as a "light press" input. An increase of
characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below the deep press intensity threshold
to an intensity above the deep press intensity threshold is sometimes referred to as a "deep press"
input. An increase of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity below the contact
detection intensity threshold to an intensity between the contact-detection intensity threshold and
the light press intensity threshold is sometimes referred to as detecting the contact on the touch
surface. A decrease of characteristic intensity of the contact from an intensity above the contact
detection intensity threshold to an intensity below the contact-detection intensity threshold is
sometimes referred to as detecting liftoff of the contact from the touch-surface. In some
embodiments, the contact-detection intensity threshold is zero. In some embodiments, the
contact-detection intensity threshold is greater than zero.
[00169]     In some embodiments described herein, one or more operations are performed in
response to detecting a gesture that includes a respective press input or in response to detecting
the respective press input performed with a respective contact (or a plurality of contacts), where
the respective press input is detected based at least in part on detecting an increase in intensity of
the contact (or plurality of contacts) above a press-input intensity threshold. In some
                                                  42

1002183742
embodiments, the respective operation is performed in response to detecting the increase in
intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold (e.g., a "down stroke"
of the respective press input). In some embodiments, the press input includes an increase in
intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a subsequent
decrease in intensity of the contact below the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective
operation is performed in response to detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the
respective contact below the press-input threshold (e.g., an "up stroke" of the respective press
input).
[00170]     FIGS. 5E-5H illustrate detection of a gesture that includes a press input that
corresponds to an increase in intensity of a contact 562 from an intensity below a light press
intensity threshold (e.g., "ITL") in FIG. 5E, to an intensity above a deep press intensity threshold
(e.g., "ITD") in FIG. 5H. The gesture performed with contact 562 is detected on touch-sensitive
surface 560 while cursor 576 is displayed over application icon 572B corresponding to App 2, on
a displayed user interface 570 that includes application icons 572A-572D displayed in
predefined region 574. In some embodiments, the gesture is detected on touch-sensitive display
504. The intensity sensors detect the intensity of contacts on touch-sensitive surface 560. The
device determines that the intensity of contact 562 peaked above the deep press intensity
threshold (e.g., "ITD"). Contact 562 is maintained on touch-sensitive surface 560. In response to
the detection of the gesture, and in accordance with contact 562 having an intensity that goes
above the deep press intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD") during the gesture, reduced-scale
representations 578A-578C (e.g., thumbnails) of recently opened documents for App 2 are
displayed, as shown in FIGS. 5F-5H. In some embodiments, the intensity, which is compared to
the one or more intensity thresholds, is the characteristic intensity of a contact. It should be
noted that the intensity diagram for contact 562 is not part of a displayed user interface, but is
included in FIGS. 5E-5H to aid the reader.
[00171]     In some embodiments, the display of representations 578A-578C includes an
animation. For example, representation 578A is initially displayed in proximity of application
icon 572B, as shown in FIG. 5F. As the animation proceeds, representation 578A moves upward
and representation 578B is displayed in proximity of application icon 572B, as shown in FIG.
5G. Then representations 578A moves upward, 578B moves upward toward representation
578A, and representation 578C is displayed in proximity of application icon 572B, as shown in
FIG. 5H. Representations 578A-578C form an array above icon 572B. In some embodiments,
the animation progresses in accordance with an intensity of contact 562, as shown in FIGS. 5F
                                                  43

1002183742
5G, where the representations 578A-578C appear and move upwards as the intensity of contact
562 increases toward the deep press intensity threshold (e.g., "ITD"). In some embodiments the
intensity, on which the progress of the animation is based, is the characteristic intensity of the
contact. The operations described with reference to FIGS. 5E-5H can be performed using an
electronic device similar or identical to device 100, 300, or 500.
[00172]     In some embodiments, the device employs intensity hysteresis to avoid accidental
inputs sometimes termed "jitter," where the device defines or selects a hysteresis intensity
threshold with a predefined relationship to the press-input intensity threshold (e.g., the hysteresis
intensity threshold is X intensity units lower than the press-input intensity threshold or the
hysteresis intensity threshold is 75%, 90%, or some reasonable proportion of the press-input
intensity threshold). Thus, in some embodiments, the press input includes an increase in
intensity of the respective contact above the press-input intensity threshold and a subsequent
decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity threshold that corresponds to
the press-input intensity threshold, and the respective operation is performed in response to
detecting the subsequent decrease in intensity of the respective contact below the hysteresis
intensity threshold (e.g., an "up stroke" of the respective press input). Similarly, in some
embodiments, the press input is detected only when the device detects an increase in intensity of
the contact from an intensity at or below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity at or
above the press-input intensity threshold and, optionally, a subsequent decrease in intensity of
the contact to an intensity at or below the hysteresis intensity, and the respective operation is
performed in response to detecting the press input (e.g., the increase in intensity of the contact or
the decrease in intensity of the contact, depending on the circumstances).
[00173]     For ease of explanation, the descriptions of operations performed in response to a
press input associated with a press-input intensity threshold or in response to a gesture including
the press input are, optionally, triggered in response to detecting either: an increase in intensity
of a contact above the press-input intensity threshold, an increase in intensity of a contact from
an intensity below the hysteresis intensity threshold to an intensity above the press-input
intensity threshold, a decrease in intensity of the contact below the press-input intensity
threshold, and/or a decrease in intensity of the contact below the hysteresis intensity threshold
corresponding to the press-input intensity threshold. Additionally, in examples where an
operation is described as being performed in response to detecting a decrease in intensity of a
contact below the press-input intensity threshold, the operation is, optionally, performed in
response to detecting a decrease in intensity of the contact below a hysteresis intensity threshold
                                                  44

1002183742
corresponding to, and lower than, the press-input intensity threshold. Attention is now directed
towards embodiments of user interfaces and associated processes that may be implemented on a
multifunction device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface, such as devices 100, 300,
and/or 500, to improve a user's experience in managing alerts.
1.          User Interfaces for Managing Alerts
[00174]     The user interfaces for managing alerts described below are illustrated by exemplary
sequences of screens that device 500 can display in response to receiving alerts and detecting
various user inputs. In these sequences, the arrows indicate the order in which the screens may
be displayed.
                        a.       Displaying Notifications
[00175]     FIGS. 6A-6B depict exemplary screens 604, 612 that device 500 can display after
receiving an alert. Initially, touchscreen 504 may be turned off or inactive. In response to
receiving an alert, device 500 can issue a perceptual output 602, such as an audible, visible, or
haptic output, that can be perceived by a user. In some embodiments, device 500 can issue a
perceptual output by causing a haptic mechanism on device 500 to issue a haptic output. In
some embodiments, device 500 can issue a perceptual output by playing a sound or tone that is
audible to a user. In some embodiments, device 500 can issue a perceptual output by displaying
a visible output, such as a flashing light or an indicator on touchscreen 504.
[00176]     In some embodiments, issuing the haptic output includes issuing a first haptic output
and, after issuing the first haptic output, issuing a second haptic output, where the first haptic
output is distinct from the second haptic output. In order to increase the saliency with which a
user perceives a haptic output, the user may wish to receive a "pre-alert" haptic output. The first
haptic output may "prime" the user for receiving a second haptic output, which in some
embodiments may indicate specific information (e.g., the source of the alert) or be associated
with a second perceptual output (e.g., an audible or visible output), as described below. For
example, it may be difficult for the user to perceive a haptic output while moving or paying
attention to something else. Therefore, a first haptic output that "primes" the user to perceive a
second haptic output (and optionally, an associated second perceptual output) may be
advantageous.
[00177]     The user may wish to receive a haptic output based on the source of the alert. For
example, the user may wish to receive a different haptic output for an email alert than for a
                                                   45

1002183742
voicemail alert. To provide distinctive haptic outputs, the device may issue a haptic output with
a distinctive audible or visible output, or the device may issue a haptic output with a distinctive
quality, e.g., a distinct intensity, duration, and/or pattern. Allowing the user to receive distinctive
haptic outputs that distinguish the source of the alert enables the user to perceive the type of alert
without having to look at the display, thus conserving battery life. In some embodiments, the
second haptic output is based on the source of the alert. In some embodiments, the second haptic
output is issued with an audible or visible output.
[00178]      In some embodiments, the first haptic output has a greater intensity and/or duration,
as compared to the second haptic output. This may be advantageous, for example, by providing
a stronger haptic signal to the user, drawing their attention to device 500 in preparation for a
second haptic signal (e.g., one with a distinctive aspect based on the source of the alert, or one
associated with an audible or visible output). In some embodiments, device 500 may include a
user interface (not shown) for configuring whether issuing the haptic output includes issuing a
first, "priming" haptic output. In such embodiments, if device 500 is configured to not issue a
"priming" haptic output, issuing the haptic output may include issuing only one haptic output.
[00179]      As depicted in FIG. 6A, in response to detecting a subsequent user input within a
predetermined time interval after the perceptual output 602, device 500 can display screen 604
with notification 606 representing the received alert. In some embodiments, the user input may
be a contact on touchscreen 504, such as a swipe or tap. In some embodiments, if device 500 is
worn on a user's wrist, the user input may be a signal indicative of a user moving device 500 into
a viewing position by raising or rotating their wrist. As used herein, a viewing position is a
position of device 500 in which the user can view touchscreen 504. In some embodiments,
device 500 may detect a signal indicative of a user raising or lowering their wrist as described in
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/026,532, "Raise Gesture Detection in a
Device," hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[00180]      The received alert includes information. Such information may include a source of
the alert, an application associated with the alert, and/or a time and/or date associated with the
alert, along with textual, image, or audio content, for example. In some embodiments, the
notification representing the received alert comprises a portion of the alert information. For
example, as depicted in FIG. 6A, notification 606 comprises the source 610 of the alert (Jason
Jones) and an application affordance 608 indicating an application associated with the alert-in
this example, a text message application. (The dashed rectangle depicted on screen 604 indicates
                                                    46

1002183742
the content of the notification, but the dashed rectangle may not be displayed.)     In some
embodiments, in response to detecting a selection of application affordance 608, device 500 can
launch an application associated with the alert. In some embodiments, launching an application
includes displaying the application on touchscreen 504 and opening the alert for viewing,
editing, or responding within the application.
[00181]      As discussed above, device 500 can display screen 604 in response to detecting a user
input within a predetermined time interval following the haptic output. In some embodiments,
the predetermined time interval may range from 0 seconds to 3 minutes. In other embodiments,
the predetermined time interval may range from 0 seconds to 1 minute. In yet other
embodiments, the predetermined time interval may be set by the user, or may be determined by
device 500 based on previous user behavior such as an average of previous elapsed times prior to
the user providing the input.
[00182]      The scenario depicted in FIG. 6A may correspond to the case when the user, having
perceived the perceptual output issued by device 500 in response to receiving an alert, wishes to
promptly view the notification representing the received alert and therefore moves device 500
into a position suitable for viewing touchscreen 504 (e.g., by raising their wrist) within the
predetermined time interval.
[00183]      As depicted in FIG. 6B, if device 500 detects the user input after the predetermined
time interval, then device 500 can instead respond by displaying a clock face 612. This scenario
may correspond to the case when the user does not wish to promptly view the notification, and
raises their wrist sometime after the perceptual output 602 to view touchscreen 504. In some
embodiments, the clock face 612 may comprise a user interface object 616 indicating the current
time. In some embodiments, the clock face 612 may comprise an indication of an unread alert
614 corresponding to the received alert, because the alert content has not yet been displayed. As
shown in FIG. 6B, the indication 614 may be a dot. FIG. 6C depicts another embodiment in
which the indication 614 is a chevron. In some embodiments, device 500 displays, in place of a
chevron, an arrow, triangle, or other graphical object that provides a directional indication.
Indications of unread alerts are described in more detail below.
[00184]      In some embodiments, device 500 can display a home screen rather than clock face
612. An exemplary home screen 706 is depicted in FIG. 7. The home screen may include a
plurality of affordances representing a plurality of applications, and may comprise an indication
of an unread alert corresponding to the received alert.
                                                  47

1002183742
[00185]      If device 500 does not detect the user input within the predetermined time interval
after the perceptual output, device 500 may remain in its initial dark or inactive state without
displaying screen 604. This scenario may correspond to the case when the user does not wish to
promptly view the notification or wishes to avoid allowing others who are nearby to view the
notification, and therefore does not move device 500 into position for viewing touchscreen 504
after perceiving the perceptual output.
[00186]      While notification 606 is displayed, if device 500 detects a second user input within a
second predetermined time interval after displaying the notification, device 500 can return
touchscreen 504 to its initial dark or inactive state. The second user input may be, for example, a
signal indicative of a user moving device 500 out of a viewing position by lowering and/or
rotating their wrist. In response to detecting the second user input within the second
predetermined time interval, device 500 can return the display to its initial dark or inactive state.
This scenario may correspond to the case where the user, having viewed the notification, does
not wish to continue viewing or interacting with device 500 and therefore lowers their wrist.
[00187]      In some embodiments, displaying notification 606 involves displaying an animation
that slides notification 606 in a vertical direction onto touchscreen 504. For example, device 500
may display an animation that slides notification 606 up onto touchscreen 504 from the bottom
of touchscreen 504. Such an animation can provide a visual cue to the user that, since the
notification is "rising up" from the bottom of the screen (for example), dismissing the alert may
be performed through a contact with touchscreen 504 in the opposite direction of the animation
(such as a downward swipe) to "push down" the notification. The user may also infer from the
animation that a contact with touchscreen 504 in the same direction as the animation (such as an
upward swipe) may "pull up" (e.g., display) additional alert information, such as the body of a
text message or additional text associated with a calendar alert. Thus, animations displayed by
device 500 may provide visual cues to the user regarding potential inputs that the user can
provide to device 500. A person of skill in the art will recognize that the animation direction for
the notification need not be in the upward direction; for example, the notification may slide
down onto the touchscreen from the top of the screen, in which case a user may infer that
dismissing the notification may require an upward swipe. Such visual cues may improve the
man-machine interface by guiding the user to apply the appropriate inputs without requiring
display of detailed instructions on the reduced-size screen.
                                                   48

1002183742
[00188]      As described above, in some embodiments, device 500 can issue a perceptual output,
such as by causing the haptic mechanism to issue a haptic output, in response to receiving an
alert, thereby informing the user that an alert has been received. However, in some
embodiments, device 500 can delay issuing the perceptual output in response to receiving an
alert, in order to deliver the perceptual output at a time that is likely to be more convenient for
the user. For example, device 500 may delay the perceptual output until the user is relatively
inactive and thus more likely to perceive the perceptual output, or delay the perceptual output to
avoid interrupting the user while the user is actively engaged in an activity or is sleeping. In
some embodiments, in response to receiving an alert, device 500 may obtain data from one or
more motion sensors, accelerometers, heart rate monitors, and/or other type of sensors to
determine a current user activity level-such as whether the user is currently exercising, typing,
or sleeping. Device 500 can delay the perceptual output until the determined user activity level
meets an activity criteria. In some embodiments, the activity criteria may include that the user is
relatively still (as determined by outputs from sensors on device 500), has paused from typing on
a physical keyboard, has paused in speaking, or is not asleep, for example. In this manner,
device 500 can issue a perceptual output to inform the user that a new alert has been received at a
time that may be less likely to annoy to the user, while being more likely to be perceived by the
user.
[00189]      After device 500 has displayed a notification, a user may choose to dismiss the
notification or to display the alert content (for example, the body of a text message, or text
associated with a calendar alert), among other options.
                          b.     Dismissing Notifications
[00190]      FIG. 7 shows another exemplary sequence of screens that device 500 can display on
touchscreen 504 after receiving an alert. As discussed with respect to FIG. 6A, touchscreen 504
may initially be dark or inactive. In response to receiving an alert, device 500 can issue a
perceptual output. As described in FIG. 6A, in response to receiving a user input within a first
predetermined time interval following the perceptual output, device 500 displays screen 604
including notification 606, which represents the received alert. In this exemplary sequence,
displaying notification 606 on screen 604 involves displaying an animation that slides
notification 606 upwards from the bottom of touchscreen 504.
[00191]      If while displaying notification 606 device 500 detects a contact on touchscreen 504
that meets a dismissal criteria, then device 500 can dismiss notification 606. In some
                                                   49

1002183742
embodiments, dismissing notification 606 involves removing notification 606 from the display,
and/or replacing display of the notification with display of a clock face (such as clock face 612 in
FIG. 6B) or home screen 706.
[00192]      In some embodiments, the contact meets the dismissal criteria if it is a swipe or flick
on touchscreen 504. In some embodiments, the contact meets the dismissal criteria if it is a
swipe or flick on touchscreen 504 in a specific direction; such as a swipe or flick in a direction
opposite to the direction in which the animation slides the notification onto touchscreen 504. For
example, if an animation slides the notification upwards onto touchscreen 504 from the bottom,
the contact may meet the dismissal criteria if it is a swipe on touchscreen 504 in the downwards
direction. In some embodiments, the contact may meet the dismissal criteria if the distance of
the swipe or flick across the touchscreen exceeds a threshold distance. In some embodiments,
the threshold distance may be a quarter, half, or 3/4 of the length of touchscreen 504.
[00193]      Returning to FIG. 7, in some embodiments, in response to detecting a movement of a
contact (such as a swipe) on touchscreen 504 while displaying notification 606, device 500 can
slide notification 606 on the touchscreen in the direction of the movement of the contact and
display a dismissal indicator 714 adjacent to the notification. As shown in FIG. 7, in some
embodiments, the dismissal indicator may be displayed above the notification, if the direction of
the movement of the contact is downwards. The dismissal indicator 714 may provide the user
with a visual cue that, if the movement of the contact is continued in the same direction, the
notification will be dismissed. After displaying the dismissal indicator, in some embodiments, if
the contact meets the threshold criteria, then in response to detecting the release of the contact,
device 500 can dismiss notification 606 and remove the dismissal indicator 714 from
touchscreen 504. If the contact does not meet the threshold criteria (for example, if the
movement of the contact does not exceed a threshold distance), device 500 can display an
animation that slides notification 606 back to its initial position on the display, and remove the
dismissal indicator 714 from the display. Thus, in this example, a user must "push down" the
notification far enough to exceed a threshold distance in order to dismiss the notification;
otherwise, the notification rebounds to its original position. In some embodiments, as depicted
in FIG. 7, dismissing notification 606 involves displaying an animation that slides notification
606 off of touchscreen 504. In some embodiments, the animation slides notification 606 off of
touchscreen 504 in the direction of the swipe or flick.
                                                  50

1002183742
[00194]      As previously discussed, a user may also dismiss a notification by lowering their
wrist (as detected by device 500) while the notification is displayed. In some embodiments,
device 500 can respond differently when a notification is dismissed in response to detecting a
contact that meets the dismissal criteria (as discussed with respect to FIG. 7) than when a
notification is dismissed in response to detecting a signal indicative of lowering their wrist, as
described earlier. For example, if device 500 is worn on a user's wrist and device 500 detects a
signal indicative of the user lowering their wrist, device 500 may assume that the user is no
longer viewing touchscreen 504, and therefore may turn off or inactivate touchscreen 504 after
dismissing the notification. In contrast, if device 500 is displaying a notification and detects a
contact on touchscreen 504 that meets a dismissal criteria (such as a downward swipe), device
500 may assume that the user is still actively viewing touchscreen 504, and device 500 may
respond to the contact by dismissing the notification and then displaying a clock face, home
screen, or some other screen, such as the screen that was being displayed prior to receiving the
alert.
                        c.      Displaying Alert Content
[00195]      As previously discussed, a received alert includes information, which may include a
source of the alert, an application associated with the alert, and a time of the alert, along with
(possibly) alert content, such as the body of a text message or email, a voicemail message, details
regarding a calendar reminder, or other types of content. A notification representing a received
alert may include a first portion of this alert information, such as the alert's source, associated
application, or time received.
[00196]      As previously discussed with respect to FIGS. 6A, 6B, and 7, after receiving an alert
device 500 can issue a perceptual output, and then display notification 606 in response to
detecting a user input within a first time interval following the perceptual output. After raising
their wrist to view the notification, a user may then wish to view the associated alert content.
[00197]      In some embodiments, if device 500 determines that the user continues to maintain
device 500 in the viewing position for a predetermined time interval after displaying the
notification, device 500 can display some or all of the alert content, which may be referred to as
a second portion of the information. That is, in some embodiments, device 500 can
automatically transition from displaying the notification to displaying the alert content, if the
user holds device 500 in a viewing position and waits.
                                                   51

1002183742
[00198]      FIG. 8 depicts an exemplary sequence of screens that device 500 can display in
response to receiving an alert. Initially touchscreen 504 may be dark or inactive. In response to
receiving the alert, device 500 can issue a perceptual output. In response to receiving a user
input within a predetermined time period after the perceptual output (as described with respect to
FIG. 6A), device 500 can display notification 606. In response to a determination that the user
input continues to be received after a second predetermined time period after displaying
notification 606-thus indicating that device 500 remains in a viewing position-device 500 can
display screen 802, which includes notification 606 and alert content 804. In some
embodiments, device 500 can display screen 802 in response to detecting a lack of a second user
input within the second predetermined time period after displaying notification 606. The second
user input may be a signal indicative of a user lowering their wrist, for example, and the lack of
such an input indicates that the device 500 remains in the viewing position.
[00199]      In this example, the alert content 804 is the body of a text message represented by
notification 606. In other examples, the alert content may include the subject line and some or
all of the body of a received email alert, or may be some or all of the textual content associated
with a calendar alert, or a multimedia message, for example.
[00200]      As indicated in FIG. 8, in some embodiments, displaying the alert content 804
involves displaying an animation that slides notification 606 upwards on touchscreen 504 while
sliding the alert content 804 up from the bottom of touchscreen 504 for display, so that the
notification and the alert content are displayed on the same screen. In some embodiments,
device 500 can slide notification 606 into an upper corner of touchscreen 504 to provide space
for displaying the alert content. In some embodiments, device 500 can shrink the display size of
notification 606 to provide space for displaying the alert content.
[00201]      In some embodiments, if the alert content is too long to be fully displayed on
touchscreen 504, the alert content can be scrolled. In response to detecting a user input, device
500 can scroll the alert content to allow a user to view addition alert content on touchscreen 504.
Such scroll inputs may include a contact (such as an upward or downward swipe or flick) on
touchscreen 504, for example, or may include a rotation of a rotatable input mechanism, if
present. In some embodiments, device 500 can scroll the alert content in accordance with the
user input; for example, in response to an upward swipe on touchscreen 504, device 500 can
move the alert content upwards on touchscreen 504.
                                                  52

1002183742
[00202]       As depicted in FIG. 8, in some embodiments, device 500 can dismiss the notification
and alert content in response to detecting a contact that meets a dismissal criteria, as described
previously with respect to FIG. 7. In some embodiments, dismissing notification 606 and alert
content 804 involves sliding notification 606 and alert content 804 off of touchscreen 504. In
some embodiments, device 500 can display a dismissal indicator and "rebound" the notification
and alert content if the movement of the contact does not exceed a threshold distance, as
previously described. In some embodiments, device 500 can display a clock face 612 after
dismissing the notification and alert content. In some embodiments, if clock face 612 is
displayed after alert content is dismissed, the clock face may be displayed without an indication
of an unread alert, since the alert content has been displayed.
[00203]       As previously discussed, device 500 can display alert content in response to detecting
that device has been maintained in the viewing position after displaying a notification. However,
in some cases, a user may not wish to wait to view the alert content by maintaining device 500 in
the viewing position for the predetermined time interval. Thus, in some embodiments, device
500 can also display screen 802 in response to a detecting contact with touchscreen 504 while
notification 606 is displayed. In some embodiments, the contact for invoking display of the alert
content 804 may comprise a movement of the contact on touchscreen 504, such as a swipe or
flick. In some embodiments, the swipe or flick must be in the same direction as the animation
that slides notification 606 onto touchscreen 504, such as an upward swipe on touchscreen 504,
thus conceptually "pulling up" more alert information after the notification. In some
embodiments, the contact can be a touch (e.g., a finger tap) on or near notification 606.
[00204]       As depicted in FIG. 24, in some embodiments, in response to receiving an alert while
touchscreen 504 is actively displaying content, device 500 can display a notification banner 2402
across the top of touchscreen 504 while still displaying at least a portion of the screen content.
In some embodiments, in response to receiving an alert while touchscreen 504 is actively
displaying content, device 500 may also issue a perceptual output 702. In the example shown in
FIG. 24, the content displayed is home screen 706. In response to detecting a contact on
notification banner 2402, such as a swipe or tap, device 500 can display screen 802 with alert
content 804.
[00205]       Some alerts may not have any alert content. For example, a clock alarm, low-battery
alert, or fitness alert may not have any alert content. Thus, in some embodiments, device 500
can continue to display a notification without transitioning to displaying the alert content.
                                                  53

1002183742
                         d.     Suppressing Automatic Display of Alert Content
[00206]     In some cases, a user may not want device 500 to automatically display alert content
as described with respect to FIG. 8, due to privacy concerns or for other reasons. Thus, in some
embodiments, device 500 can provide an option for a user to suppress such automatic display of
alert content by changing configuration data stored on device 500. In some embodiments, before
transitioning to the display of the alert content, device 500 can obtain the configuration data to
determine whether the alert content should be displayed. If the configuration data indicates that
the alert content should be displayed, device 500 can display the alert content as previously
described with respect to FIG. 8. If the configuration data indicates that the alert content should
not be displayed, device 500 can continue to display the notification, without transitioning to the
alert content.
[00207]     In some embodiments, if device 500 is configured to suppress automatic display of
the alert content (via the configuration data), device 100 may still display the alert content in
response to detecting a contact, such as a tap or swipe, on a displayed notification.
                         e.     Alerts Comprising Audio Content
[00208]     Some received alerts may comprise audio content. Such alerts may include
voicemail, audio, or "push to talk" messages. In some embodiments, as depicted in FIG. 9, the
displayed alert content can include a playback affordance 902 for playing back the audio content.
In response to detecting a selection of playback affordance 902, device 500 can play the audio
content. In some embodiments, if the audio content is received as part of a live audio
conversation (such as if the device is operating in the "push to talk" mode) and the user selects
the playback affordance, device 500 can play the initial audio message in response to the
selection of the affordance, and device 500 can play subsequent audio messages live, as they are
received, without requiring subsequent selections of the affordance.
                         f.     Text Message Alerts
[00209]     In some embodiments, if the alert is a text message, a user may wish to view a text
message conversation associated with the alert. FIG. 10 depicts a sequence of screens that
device 500 can display after receiving a text message alert. This sequence is similar to the
sequence shown in FIG. 8, and depicts displaying notification 606 and alert content 804
corresponding to a text message received from sender Jason Jones. However, in this example,
while displaying screen 802, device 500 detects a contact on touchscreen 504. The contact may
                                                   54

1002183742
be a touch or tap on touchscreen 504 at a location corresponding to application affordance 608,
for example, or a horizontal swipe on touchscreen 504. In response to detecting the contact with
touchscreen 504, device 500 can display screen 1002.
[00210]      Screen 1002 includes some or all of a text message conversation between the user and
the source of the text message alert. In this example, the text message conversation includes text
messages sent to and received from Jason Jones. In some embodiments, the text messages in the
text message conversation are arranged chronologically based on the order in which they were
received or sent.
                         g.      Response Options
[00211]     In some cases, upon viewing a notification or alert content, a user may wish to
respond to the alert. Because device 500 is a reduced-size device with a relatively small
touchscreen, user interfaces that may be used to respond to alerts on larger devices, such as
cellular phones, may be ineffective and/or awkward on touchscreen 504. A user may wish to be
able to respond to an alert without needing to provide a sequence of relatively accurate
touchscreen inputs, which may be difficult or frustrating on a reduced-size device. Thus, in
some embodiments, device 500 can provide user interfaces that enable the user to respond to
alerts more quickly and easily on a reduced-size screen.
[00212]     As previously described, device 500 can scroll alert content in response to detecting a
contact on touchscreen 504 or, in some embodiments, in response to a rotation of a rotatable
input mechanism. In some embodiments, if a user attempts to scroll beyond the bottom of the
alert content (the end of the content), device 500 can respond by displaying user interface objects
that are associated with actions that may be performed by an application associated with the
alert.
[00213]     For example, FIG. 11 depicts a sequence of screens that device 500 can display in
response to receiving an alert. These screens are similar to those described with respect to FIG.
4. While displaying the bottom of the alert content 804 (in this case, the alert content is a text
message), device 500 detects a user input requesting to scroll beyond the bottom of the alert
content; that is, a user input requesting to move the alert content upwards to display more alert
content. The user input may be an upward swipe on touchscreen 504, for example, or a rotation
of a rotatable input mechanism. In response to detecting the user input, device 500 can scroll the
notification 606 and alert content 804 upwards and scroll user interface objects 1112, 1114 onto
                                                 55

1002183742
touchscreen 504 below the alert content. In this example, the notification 606 is scrolled off of
the top of touchscreen 504 and is no longer displayed.
[00214]     In the example of FIG. 11, the alert is a text message. Thus, in this embodiment, the
user interface objects 1112, 1114 scrolled onto touchscreen 504 are associated with actions
corresponding to a text message application. In particular, user interface object 1112 is
associated with a reply action, and user interface object 1114 is associated with a dismiss action.
For other types of alerts, the user interface objects scrolled onto touchscreen 504 may be
different. For example, for a calendar invitation, the actions may include accept or decline. For
a voicemail alert, actions may include call back or send message. In some embodiments, there
may be more than two displayed user interface objects.
[00215]     In some embodiments, in response to detecting a selection of user interface object
1114, which is associated with a dismiss action, device 500 can dismiss the alert as previously
described with respect to FIG. 8.
[00216]     In some embodiments, in response to detecting a selection of user interface object
1112, which is associated with a reply action, device 500 can display screen 1120. Screen 1120
includes several user interface objects 1122, 1124, 1126, 1128 that correspond to options for
replying to the text message. In this example, the reply options include "smart reply," "emoji,"
"dictate," and "KB" (keyboard). Such reply options may include functionality as described in
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.62/044,923 "Historical Buttons for Input
Methods," filed September 2, 2014, and naming Nicholas Zambetti as inventor; U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No.62/127,800 "Historical Buttons for Input Methods," filed March 3,
2015, and naming Nicholas Zambetti as inventor; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial
No.62/129,903 "Historical Buttons for Input Methods," filed March 8, 2015, and naming
Nicholas Zambetti as inventor. These applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[00217]     In response to detecting a selection of user interface object 1122, corresponding to
"Smart Reply," device 500 can display smart reply screen 1130. Smart reply screen 1130
includes a user interface for selecting a predefined response message 1132, 1134, 1136. In some
embodiments, the content of the predefined response messages may be provided as a default by
device 500, or may be customized by the user. In some embodiments, the content of the
predefined response messages may be received by device 500 from an external device.
                                                  56

1002183742
[00218]      In response to detecting a selection of a predefined response message 1132, 1134,
1136, device 500 can send the predefined response message to the alert source, and display
message-sent confirmation screen 1140. After displaying message-sent confirmation screen
1140 for a predetermined time interval, device 500 can display clock face 212 or a home screen.
In this example, clock face 212 does not include an indication of an unread alert corresponding
to the received alert because the alert content has been displayed.
[00219]      Returning to screen 1120, if device 500 detects a selection of user interface object
1124 instead of 1122, device 500 can display a user interface for selecting an emoji (e.g.,
ideogram, clip art, or animation) to send as a reply to the alert source. In response to detecting a
selection of an emoji, device 500 can send the selected emoji to the source of the alert and
display message-sent confirmation screen 1140.
[00220]      In some embodiments, instead of sending a predefined response or emoji immediately
after selection, device 500 can display a confirmation affordance. In response to detecting a
selection of the confirmation affordance, device 500 can send the predefined response or emoji
as described above.
[00221]      In some embodiments, in response to detecting a selection of user interface object
1126, device 500 can record an audio input from a microphone on device 500, and send data
corresponding to the recorded audio as a reply to the source. In some embodiments, the recorded
audio may be sent as audio message data. In other embodiments, the recorded audio may be
transcribed by device 500 and sent as transcription data. In some embodiments, instead of
immediately sending the data representing the audio recording to the source, device 500 can
display an indication of the recorded audio on touchscreen 504, along with a send affordance
which, when selected, causes device 100 to send the data corresponding to the audio to the
source.
[00222]      In some embodiments, in response to detecting a selection of user interface object
1128, device 500 can display a virtual keyboard to enable a user to type a response to the alert.
[00223]      As depicted in FIG. 12A, in some embodiments, after scrolling up user interface
objects 1112, 1114 onto touchscreen 504, in response to detecting a user input requesting to
scroll past the bottom of user interface object 1114, device 500 can scroll user interface objects
1202, 1204, 1206, and 1208 representing reply options onto touchscreen 504 below user
interface objects 1112, 1114. These reply options include two predefined response messages
                                                  57

1002183742
1202, 1204 and the dictate 1208 and emoji 1206 options previously described with respect to
FIG. 11. In response to detecting a selection of one of the reply options 1202, 1204, 1206, 1208,
device 500 can respond as described with respect to FIG. 11.
[00224]      As depicted in FIG. 12B, in some embodiments, instead of scrolling up user interface
objects 1112, 1114 below the bottom of the alert content, device 500 can scroll user interface
objects 1202, 1204, 1206, and 1208 onto the screen below the bottom of the alert content. In this
example, in response to detecting a user input requesting to scroll past the bottom of the alert
content 804 (such as an upward swipe), device 500 scrolls these reply options onto touchscreen
504 under the bottom of the alert content.
[00225]      FIG. 12C illustrates an exemplary animation that may be displayed by device 500 as
part of an interface for using "Smart Replies," as described above in reference to FIGS. 11-12B.
On screen 1210, device 500 displays an alert (e.g., text message 1212) and user interface object
1214, which is associated with a reply action. In response to receiving user input associated with
the reply action (e.g., a touch on touchscreen 504 at the location of user interface object 1214),
device 500 may display an animated reveal of a plurality of predefined response messages. For
example, as shown in FIG. 12C, screen 1220 initially displays user interface objects 1222 and
1224 corresponding to predefined response messages. User interface objects 1222 and 1224 are
animated to appear at the bottom of screen 1220 and translate on-screen in an upward direction,
as indicated by arrow 1226. Over the course of the animated reveal, user interface objects 1222
and 1224 translate to the top of screen 504 as user interface objects 1228, 1230, and 1232 appear
below on screen 1220. User interface object 1228 indicates a third predefined response message,
while user interface object 1230 indicates an emoji response, and user interface object 1232
indicates a dictation response.
[00226]      The user may provide a user input indicating a selection of a predetermined response
message or other response option (e.g., emoji or dictation). For example, the user may provide a
touch on touchscreen 504 at the location of user interface object 1228. In response to detecting
the user input indicating a selection of the predetermined response message or other response
option, device 500 may remove the display of the other predetermined response messages and
response options (e.g., those not selected by the user). As shown in FIG. 12C, in response to
receiving a user input indicating a selection of the "Not sure" predetermined response message
(e.g., user interface object 1228), device 500 removes the display of user interface objects 1222,
1224, 1230, and 1232. Subsequently, device 500 may animate the selected predetermined
                                                  58

1002183742
response message to pause briefly, then translate off of screen 1220 and disappear, as indicated
by arrow 1234. After pause, translation, and removal of the displayed predetermined response
message/other response option, device 500 may display a second user interface screen (e.g.,
screen 1240), such as clock face 212 or a home screen. For example, after user interface object
1224 translates off of screen 1220, device 500 may reveal screen 1240 by fading in, transitioning
from out-of-focus to in-focus, and so forth. Device 500 may also send the selected
predetermined response message to the alert source.
[00227]     Device 500 can display other response options to enable a user to respond to other
types of alerts. For example, FIGS. 13A-B show exemplary sequences of screens that device
500 can display on touchscreen 504 to enable a user to respond to a clock alarm alert or social
media "friend request" alert. In the example shown in FIG. 13A, device 500 receives a clock
alarm alert and issues a perceptual output. In response to detecting a user input within a
predetermined time interval after the perceptual output, device 500 displays screen 1302 that
includes notification 1304 corresponding to the clock alarm alert. In response to detecting a
contact on notification 1304, device 500 displays response screen 1330. The contact may be an
upward swipe on touchscreen 504 while notification 1304 is displayed. In response to this
contact, device 500 displays screen 1330. In this case, the response options include "snooze"
1306 and "dismiss" 1308.
[00228]     In the example shown in FIG. 13B, device 500 receives a "friend request" alert from
a social media application and issues a perceptual output. In response to detecting a user input
within a predetermined time interval after the perceptual output, device 500 displays screen 1310
that includes notification 1312 corresponding to the friend request alert. In response to detecting
a contact with touchscreen 504 while displaying screen 1310, device 500 displays response
screen 1340. The contact may be an upward swipe on touchscreen 504, for example. In
response to detecting this contact, device 500 displays screen 1340. In this case, the alert
response options include "accept" 1314 and "deny" 1316 to allow a user to accept or deny the
friend request.
[00229]     A person of skill in the art will recognize that many other response options are
possible for other types of alerts.
[00230]     It should be noted that, in the previous examples shown in FIGS. 8-11, in response to
an upward swipe on touchscreen 504 while displaying a notification, device 500 displays alert
content associated with the received alert. However, in the examples shown in FIGS. 13A-B, the
                                                   59

1002183742
received alerts do not have associated alert content. In some embodiments, if a received alert
does not have alert content, device 500 can respond to a contact (such as an upward swipe or tap)
on touchscreen 504 while displaying a notification by displaying response options rather than by
displaying alert content .
[00231]     As discussed earlier, in some embodiments, device 500 can detect the intensity of
contacts on touchscreen 504 (e.g., using intensity sensor 524). Device 500 can then respond to
contacts on touchscreen 504 based on the intensity of the contact. Returning briefly to FIG. 11,
in some embodiments, while displaying alert content 804, in response to detecting a contact with
touchscreen 504 that has a characteristic intensity that is above a threshold intensity, device 500
can display some or all of user interface objects 1122, 1124, 1126, and 1128.
[00232]     In some embodiments, a user may access user interface objects 1122, 1124, 1126,
and/or 1128 either by scrolling beyond the bottom of alert content, as described earlier, or by
touching touchscreen 504 with a characteristic intensity that is above a threshold intensity (e.g., a
hard press on touchscreen 504, detected by, e.g., intensity sensor 524).
[00233]     FIG. 14 depicts another sequence of screens that may be displayed by device 500 to
enable a user to respond to a received alert. In this example, while displaying the alert content
804, device 500 detects a contact with touchscreen 504 that has a characteristic intensity that is
above a threshold intensity. In response to detecting the contact with a characteristic intensity
above the threshold, device 500 can display response screen 1402.
[00234]     Response screen 1402 includes four user interface objects 1404, 1406, 1408, 1414
corresponding to four response options. In response to detecting an input indicating selection of
user interface object 1404, device 500 can display screen 1120, as shown and described with
respect to FIG. 11.
[00235]     In response to detecting a selection of user interface object 1406, device 500 can
dismiss the alert and display a clock face or home screen.
[00236]     In response to detecting a selection of user interface object 1408, device 500 can
suppress subsequent alerts indefinitely or for a predetermined period of time (e.g., by not causing
a perceptual output in response to receiving an alert, and/or by not displaying any new
notifications).
                                                 60

1002183742
[00237]     In some embodiments, in response to detecting a selection of user interface object
1410, device 500 can launch an application associated with the received alert and view the alert
in the application. Launching an application may correspond to executing the application in the
foreground of device 500 and/or displaying the application on touchscreen 504. In this example,
since the alert is a text message, device 500 can launch a text message application. In other
examples, depending on the received alert the launched application may be an email application,
a calendar application, a weather application, a social network application, or some other type of
application. After launching an application, in response to detecting a depression of a hardware
button or a depression of a rotatable, depressible mechanism (if either or both are present on
device 500, as depicted in FIG. 5A), device can exit the application and display the home screen.
[00238]     In the example shown in FIG. 14, response screen 1402 includes user interface
objects 1404, 1406, 1408, 1410 that are appropriate for responding to a text message or email
alert. However, as previously discussed with respect to FIGS. 12A-B, the response screen can
have different user interface objects that are appropriate for responding to different types of
alerts. For example, if the alert is a clock alarm, then instead of the "reply" option 1404, the
response screen may provide a "snooze" option. As another example, if the alert is an audio
message, the response screen may provide a "play" option to allow the user to play the audio
message. In some embodiments, the response screen may provide an "open in phone" option. In
response to detecting a selection of the "open in phone" option, device 500 can send data to an
external electronic device that is in communication with device 500, such as a cellular phone, to
cause the external electronic device to launch the application associated with the alert.
[00239]     It should be noted that the response interfaces described with respect to FIGS. 13A-B
and FIG. 14 are not part of the associated application, which may or may not be executing on
device 500; instead, the response interfaces are part of an alert user interface. In some
embodiments, a third party may supply response options for an application executing on an
external electronic device that is in communication with device 500.
2.          Managing Multiple Alerts
[00240]     In some embodiments, device 500 may receive multiple alerts and display multiple
consecutive notifications.
[00241]     FIG. 15 depicts a sequence of screens that may be displayed by device 500 in
response to receiving multiple alerts. As in previous examples, initially, touchscreen 504 may be
                                                  61

1002183742
dark or inactive. In response to receiving a first alert, device 500 issues a first perceptual output
602. In response to receiving a user input within a first time interval following the first
perceptual output 602, device 500 displays first notification 606, as previously shown and
described with respect to FIG. 6A.
[00242]      While displaying the first notification, device 500 receives a second alert. In
response to receiving the second alert, device 500 replaces screen 604 with screen 1502. In
some embodiments, in response to receiving the second alert, device 500 may also issue a second
perceptual output 1506. Screen 1502 includes a second notification 1504 representing the
second received alert. In this example, the second received alert is an email from sender Julia
Smith. The second notification may be animated onto the screen in a manner similar to that
described earlier with respect to FIG. 8.
[00243]      Device 500 can dismiss second notification 1504 in response to detecting a user input
meeting a dismissal criteria, as previously discussed with respect to FIG. 8. After dismissing the
second notification, device 500 may display a home screen 706 or a clock face 612. As depicted
in FIG. 15, the home screen or clock face may include an indication of two unread alerts
corresponding to the first and second alerts. Note that the indicator of unread alerts 614 depicted
on the clock face 612 in FIG. 15 is larger than the indicator of an unread alert depicted on the
clock face 612 in FIG. 6B. As will be discussed in more detail below, in some embodiments, the
size of the indicator may provide an indication of the number of unread alerts.
[00244]      FIG. 16 depicts another exemplary sequence of screens that can be displayed by
device 500 in response to receiving multiple alerts. In this example, device 500 receives a first
alert, issues a first perceptual output 602, and displays a first notification 606 and first alert
content 804 in response to various user inputs, as previously described with respect to FIG. 8.
[00245]      While displaying first alert content 804, device 500 then receives a second alert
including information. In response to receiving the second alert, device 500 can display screen
1502 with second notification 1504 as described with respect to FIG. 15. In some embodiments,
in response to receiving the second alert, device 500 may issue a second perceptual output 1506.
Device 500 can dismiss second notification 1504 in response to user inputs that meet a dismissal
criteria, as previously described with respect to FIG. 8. After dismissing second notification
1504, device 500 can display clock face 612 or home screen 706, as previously described with
respect to FIG. 15. In some embodiments, instead of displaying clock face 612 or home screen
706, device 500 can re-display first alert content 804 after dismissing second notification 1504.
                                                   62

1002183742
[00246]      FIG. 17 depicts another sequence of screens device 500 can display. This sequence is
similar to the sequence depicted in FIG. 16, but instead of dismissing second notification 1504,
the user wishes to view the second alert content. Device 500 can display the second alert content
1712 in response to detecting a user input while displaying the second notification 1504, as
previously described with respect to FIG. 8. In this example, second alert content 1712 includes
a subject line 1710 for the email alert. The user input may be an upward swipe or tap on the
second notification, for example.
[00247]      In the example depicted in FIG. 17, after viewing the second alert content 1712, the
user wishes to invoke the application associated with the second alert. In some embodiments, in
response to detecting a contact on touchscreen 504 at a location corresponding to the second alert
content or the second alert notification, device 500 can launch an application associated with the
second alert and display screen 1714. In some embodiments, in response to detecting a selection
of application affordance 1708, device 500 can launch an application associated with the second
alert and displays screen 1714.
[00248]      In this example, the application associated with the second alert is an email
application. Thus, in response to detecting a selection of application affordance 1708, device
500 can launch an email application. In some embodiments, when device 500 launches an
application associated with an alert in this manner, the alert is opened within the application, as
depicted in screen 1714.
[00249]      After launching and viewing an application, a user may wish to return to the home
screen. In response to detecting a depression of input button 506, which may be a depressible
hardware button or a depressible, rotatable input mechanism, device 500 can display home
screen 706. In this example, home screen 706 is displayed without an indication of unread alerts
corresponding to the first alert and the second alert, because the first alert content 804 and
second alert content 1712 have both been displayed.
[00250]      FIGS. 18-20 depict additional screen sequences that device 500 can display in
response to receiving multiple alerts and detecting inputs as previously described.
[00251]       In the sequence depicted in FIG. 18, device 500 receives a first alert and displays a
first notification, as shown and described with respect to FIG. 17. Device 500 receives a second
alert while displaying the first notification. In response to receiving the second alert, device 500
displays a second notification. In this example, the user dismisses the second notification as
                                                   63

1002183742
previously described with respect to FIG. 16. After dismissing the second notification, device
500 re-displays the first notification. The user then dismisses the first notification, and device
500 displays a home screen. In this example, the home screen is displayed with an indication of
two unread alerts corresponding to the first and second alerts.
[00252]      FIG. 19 is similar to FIG. 18. However, in this example, after device 500 displays the
first notification, the user holds device 500 in the viewing position, and device 500 responds by
displaying the first alert content, as previously described with respect to FIG. 18. While
displaying the first alert content, device 500 receives a second alert and displays a second
notification. The user dismisses the second notification, and device 500 then re-displays the first
alert content. The user dismisses the first alert content, and device 500 displays home screen
706. In this example, the home screen is displayed with an indication of one unread alert
corresponding to the second alert.
[00253]      FIG. 20 is similar to FIG. 15. However, instead of dismissing the second notification,
the user taps the application affordance 2002 to launch the application associated with the second
alert. In response to detecting a selection of application affordance 2002, device 500 launches
the application and displays the second alert content within the application. The user then exits
the application and returns to the home screen 706 by depressing the hardware button or
depressible, rotatable input mechanism 506.
[00254]      Device 500 may display other user interfaces for viewing multiple notifications or
alerts. As depicted in FIG. 21, in some embodiments, in response to detecting a contact on a
notification 606 representing a first alert, device 500 can display screen 2102 comprising a first
pane 2104 with a portion of the alert content 2106 associated with notification 606, and a portion
of one or more additional panes 2108 indicating other alert content for other received alerts. In
some embodiments, screen 2102 may include paging dots 2110 that provide the user with an
indication of the number of other panes that may be displayed, and the position of the currently
displayed pane. In response to detecting a flick or swipe on touchscreen 504, device 500 can
scroll the panes to display alert content for other received alerts.
[00255]      In some embodiments, in response to detecting a contact on a pane 2104, device 500
can display screen 2114 comprising the full alert content 2120 associated with notification 606.
In some embodiments, screen 2114 further comprises paging dots 2118 that may provide the user
with an indication of other messages that may be displayed, such as other messages in a text
message conversation. In some embodiments, the color of the paging dots 2118 on screen 2114
                                                   64

1002183742
may indicate a type of message. For example, the paging dot associated with pane 2116
containing the current alert content 2120 may be one color, while other messages, such as reply
messages, may be indicated by paging dots of different colors.
3.          Muting Notifications
[00256]     In some cases, after receiving an alert from a source, a user may wish to suppress
subsequent perceptual outputs for alerts from the same source, and/or suppress display of
notifications representing alerts from the same source. That is, a user may not wish to be
notified by a perceptual output if subsequent alerts are received from the same source, and/or
may not wish to have the associated notification displayed on touchscreen 504. As depicted in
FIG. 22, device 500 can receive an alert from a source and display a notification 606. In this
example, while displaying the notification, device 500 detects a contact with touchscreen 504
that has a characteristic intensity that is above a threshold intensity. In response to detecting the
contact with a characteristic intensity above the threshold intensity, device 500 can display a
mute affordance 2204 for muting subsequent alerts received from the same source, or alerts that
are associated with the same application. In response to detecting a selection of the mute
affordance 2204, device 500 can suppress perceptual outputs and notifications for alerts received
from the same source or application indefinitely or for a predetermined period of time.
4.          Grouped Notifications
[00257]     In some cases, device 500 may receive multiple alerts simultaneously or within a
brief time period. This may happen, for example, if device 500 has been turned off for a period
of time. When device 500 is subsequently turned on, it may receive all of the alerts that would
otherwise have been received if device 500 had not been turned off. In this case, a user may be
annoyed by having to view and dismiss multiple consecutive notifications.
[00258]     Thus, in some embodiments, in response to receiving multiple alerts, device 500 may
display a single grouped notification representing multiple alerts rather than displaying a single
notification for each received alert. Device 500 may determine whether to display a grouped
notification representing multiple alerts based on grouping criteria. For example, device 500
may group alerts for representation by a single notification based on whether they are received
within a predetermined time interval, whether they are received from the same source, whether
they are associated with the same application, or some combination of these criteria. In some
embodiments, device 500 can exclude time-sensitive alerts from being included in grouped
                                                   65

1002183742
notifications, and instead display a single notification for each time-sensitive alert. Such time
sensitive alerts may include system alerts (such as battery alerts) or urgent calendar reminders,
for example.
[00259]     FIGS. 23A-C depict examples of grouped notifications 2302, 2304, 2306 that
represent multiple alerts. As depicted in FIGS. 23A-C, in some embodiments, device 500 can
respond differently to user inputs when displaying a grouped notification than when displaying a
notification representing a single alert. For example, as previously described with respect to
FIG. 8, in response to detecting a contact on a notification representing a single alert (such as an
upward swipe), device 500 may display the alert content. In contrast, in response to detecting a
contact on a group notification representing multiple alerts, device 500 may display an inbox for
an application associated with the multiple alerts (if the alerts are all associated with a single
application, and the application has an inbox), or may display a list of notifications that includes
separate notifications for each of the received alerts that were represented by the grouped alert.
FIGS. 23A-C depict examples of grouped notification screens and responses to user inputs.
[00260]     In the exemplary screen sequence depicted in FIG. 23A, device 500 receives three
text messages from the same source, Jason Jones, and displays a grouped notification 2302
representing the text messages. In response to detecting a contact on the grouped notification,
device 500 can display a text message inbox 2308 for Jason Jones, with a list of the received
messages. The contact may be a tap or swipe, for example. In response to detecting a selection
of one of the messages in the list, device 500 can display the associated alert content.
[00261]     In the exemplary screen sequence depicted in FIG. 23B, device 500 receives two
alerts from two different sources, Chris Black and Jason Jones. The alerts are both associated
with the same application. In this example, the application is a text message application. In
response to receiving the two alerts, device 500 can display a grouped notification 2304
representing the two alerts. In response to detecting a contact on the grouped notification 2304,
device 500 can display a text message inbox 2310 listing the two messages. In response to
detecting a selection of one of the messages in the list, device 500 can display the associated
alert content.
[00262]     In still another example, as depicted in FIG. 23C, device 500 receives multiple alerts
associated with multiple applications. Device 500 can display a grouped notification 2306
representing the multiple alerts. In response to detecting a contact on the grouped notification
2306, device 500 can display a list of notifications 2312 that includes separate notifications for
                                                  66

1002183742
each of the received alerts that were represented by the grouped notification. In response to
detecting a selection of one of the notifications, device 500 can display the associated alert
content.
[00263]      In some embodiments, in response to receiving multiple alerts that meet grouping
criteria, device 500 can issue multiple perceptual outputs. In some embodiments, in response to
receiving multiple alerts that meet the grouping criteria, device 500 can issue a single perceptual
output rather than issuing a perceptual output for each alert.
5.           Indication of Unread Alerts
[00264]      As previously discussed with respect to FIGS. 6B, 7, and 15, in some examples, a
displayed clock face or home screen can include a user interface object that provides an
indication of unread alerts. Unread alerts may correspond to alerts that have been received but
not viewed by the user, or may correspond to alerts that have been marked as "unread" by the
user. Device 500 may determine whether an alert has been viewed based on whether some or all
of the alert content has been displayed on touchscreen 504, how long the alert content was
displayed on touchscreen 504, whether any audio content associated with the alert has been
played, and/or whether the alert content was displayed automatically (e.g., in response to a signal
indicative of a user raising their wrist) or in response to a contact with touchscreen 504, for
example. In some embodiments, if an alert does not include any alert content (e.g., a clock
alarm), then device 500 may consider the alert as read if a notification representing the alert has
been displayed.
[00265]      In some embodiments, device 500 may receive an alert that generates a transient
notification. Such a notification may only be useful to a user for a relatively brief period. For
example, if a user is exercising and achieves a fitness milestone (such as being halfway through a
workout), device 500 may receive such a transient alert notifying the user of the milestone. In
this case, if the user raises their wrist within the predetermined time interval after device 500
issues the perceptual output for the transient alert, device 500 can display a notification
representing the alert. However, if the user raises their wrist some time later, device 500 may
display a clock face or home screen, and the clock face or home screen may not include an
indication of an unread alert corresponding to the alert because the alert may no longer be
relevant to the user.
                                                    67

1002183742
[00266]     Returning to FIG. 7, in exemplary home screen 706, user interface object 708
provides an indication of unread alerts by displaying the number of unread alerts. In other
examples, a user interface object may provide an indication of unread alerts in a different
manner, such as by displaying a colored banner where the color provides an indication of the
number of unread alerts (e.g., a darker banner indicates more unread alerts). In some
embodiments, a user interface object may provide an indication that there are unread alerts
without providing any indication of the number of unread alerts.
[00267]     In some embodiments, as depicted in FIGS. 6B, 6C, and 15, device 500 can provide
an indication of an unread alert(s) by displaying a dot, chevron, or other shape, such as indication
614. In some embodiments, the color of the dot, chevron, or other shape may indicate the
presence of unread alerts; for example, a red shape may indicate that there are unread alerts,
while a green shape may indicate that there are no unread alerts. In some embodiments, the
shape may blink, flash, or fluctuate in size with a frequency that is indicative of the number of
unread alerts. For example, a higher blink frequency may indicate more unread alerts. In some
embodiments, the size of the shape can provide an indication of the number of unread alerts. A
small shape, for example, may indicate a single unread alert (as in FIG. 6B), while a larger shape
may indicate more unread alerts (as in FIG. 15). A person of skill in the art will appreciate that
these approaches to indicating the number of unread alerts may be combined in many different
ways.
[00268]     In some embodiments, the display of the shape includes an effect. For example, the
shape may fade in or slide into position on touchscreen 504 (e.g., slide in from the top edge of
the screen). Optionally, the effect is animated. In some embodiments, the effect is performed in
response to a user input (e.g., a user raising his or her wrist).
[00269]     In some embodiments, the display of the shape is removed according to removal
criteria. For example, the shape may be removed after it has been displayed for a predetermined
period of time or in response to a user input (e.g., the user lowering his or her wrist). In some
embodiments, the removal of the shape includes an effect. For example, the shape may fade out
or slide off of touchscreen 504 (e.g., slide off the top edge of the screen). Optionally, the removal
of the shape is animated.
[00270]     The features and/or effects associated with the indication of an unread alert described
above may indicate to a user that there is an unread alert. For example, animation of the
                                                   68

1002183742
appearance or fluctuation in size of the indication may draw the user's attention to the fact that
there is an unread alert.
[00271]     Furthermore, some shapes may provide additional technical effects. In some
embodiments, an arrow, a triangle, a chevron (e.g., 614 in FIG. 6C), or other graphical object
that provides a directional indication may provide a user with a visual cue that an input will
cause device 500 to perform an operation associated with an unread alert. For example, a
graphical object that provides an indication of direction, such as chevron 614 depicted in FIG.
6C, may indicate to a user that a swipe, drag, or flick on touchscreen 504 in the direction that the
object is indicating (e.g., downward in the case of chevron 614 in FIG. 6C) will cause device 500
to perform an action associated with the unread alert. In one embodiment, a swipe in the
direction that the directional object is pointing causes device 500 to display the content of the
unread alert such as, for example, alert content 804 on screen 802 in FIG. 8. In another
embodiment, a swipe in the direction indicated by the object causes device 500 to display a
notification of the alert such as, for example, notification 606 in FIG. 6A. In yet another
embodiment, a swipe in the direction indicated by the object causes device 500 to display a list
of one or more notifications, which may include a notification of the unread alert, or launch an
application that corresponds to the unread alert. For example, device 500 may display multiple
notifications or launch an application that corresponds to the unread alert as described in co
pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/044, 953, "Reduced-size Notification
Interface," filed September 2, 2014, the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
[00272]     A person of skill in the art will appreciate that various positions and orientations of
the shape or object indicating an unread alert are possible. For example, an indication at the
bottom of touchscreen 504 may include an upward pointing arrow, triangle, chevron, or other
graphical object that provides an upward directional indication to indicate that there is an unread
alert and that an upward swipe on touchscreen 504 will cause device 500 to display the content
of the unread alert, a notification of the alert, a list of notifications, or another display associated
with alerts and/or notifications.
6.          Interacting with a reminder of an event
[00273]     In some embodiments, an alert is associated with an event (e.g., a party, meeting,
game, etc.). The alert content may include information associated with the event, such as the
date, time, and location of the event. In some embodiments, a reminder of an event is displayed
based on an estimate of the amount of time it will take for the user to get to the event. The
                                                    69

1002183742
estimated amount of time optionally depends on a location of the user and a location associated
with the event. The amount of time may be, for example, the estimated walking, biking, public
transportation, or driving time generated by a map application, navigation application, or the
like. In some embodiments, the reminder is displayed before the time of the event by the
estimated amount of time it will take the user to get to the event. In some embodiments, the
reminder is displayed before the time of the event by the estimated amount of time it will take
the user to get to the event plus a predetermined amount of time to give the user time to prepare
to leave for the event in order to arrive on time.
[00274]      In some embodiments, the notification or reminder of an event includes an
affordance. In response to detecting a selection of the affordance, device 500 may activate a
messaging application that prepares a message addressed to a person associated with the event
(e.g., the organizer of the event or the person that invited the user to the event). In this way, the
user may easily provide the person associated with the event an update of the user's status (e.g.,
"I haven't left yet. I'll be there in 10 minutes."). In some embodiments, in response to detecting
a selection of the affordance associated with a notification or reminder of an event, device 500
may activate a map application, navigation application, or the like, that provides or displays
directions to the event. The directions may include directions from the current location of the
user to a location associated with the event.
7.           Processes for managing notifications and alerts
[00275]      FIG. 25 is a flow diagram illustrating process 2500 for managing notifications and
alerts. Process 2500 may be performed at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display
screen, such as device 500 (FIG. 5A). At block 2502, the device receives an alert comprising
information. At block 2504, in response to receiving the alert, the device issues a perceptual
output (e.g., using haptic mechanism 542) . At block 2506, the device detects a user input. At
block 2508, in response to detecting the user input, the device determines whether the user input
was detected within a predetermined time interval following the perceptual output. In
accordance with a determination that the user input was received within the predetermined time
interval, at block 2510, the device displays a notification comprising a first portion of the
information (e.g., on . Optionally, the device determines whether the user input continues to be
detected after a second predetermined time interval after displaying the notification. In
accordance with a determination that the user input continues to be detected, the device displays
a second portion of the information, where the second portion is different from the first portion.
                                                   70

1002183742
[00276]      Note that details of the processes described above with respect to process 2500 (e.g.,
FIGS. 25 and 6A-8) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the other processes described
herein. For example, processes 2600 and 2700 may include one or more of the characteristics of
the various processes described above with reference to process 2500. For brevity, these details
are not repeated in the descriptions of the other processes. The various methods and techniques
described above with reference to method 2500 may be optionally implemented as one or more
hardware units, such as those described with regard to FIG. 5B.
[00277]      FIG. 26 is a flow diagram illustrating process 2600 for managing notifications and
alerts. Process 2600 may be performed at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display
screen, such as device 500 (FIG. 5A). At block 2602, the device receives a plurality of alerts.
At block 2604, in response to receiving the alerts, device 500 determines whether the plurality of
alerts meets a grouping criteria. At block 2606, the device detects a user input. At block 2608,
in accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts meets the grouping criteria, and in
response to detecting the user input, the device displays a grouped notification representing the
plurality of alerts. In accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts does not meet
the grouping criteria, and in response to detecting the user input, at block 2610, the device
displays a plurality of notifications representing the plurality of alerts. Optionally, the grouping
criteria is based on whether the plurality of alerts are received from the same source; whether the
plurality of alerts exceeds a numeric threshold of alerts; whether the plurality of alerts are
associated with the same application; and/or whether the plurality of alerts are received within a
predetermined time interval.
[00278]      Note that details of the processes described above with respect to process 2600 (e.g.,
FIGS. 26 and 23) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the other processes described
herein. For example, processes 2500 and 2700 may include one or more of the characteristics of
the various processes described above with reference to process 2600. For brevity, these details
are not repeated in the descriptions of the other processes. The various methods and techniques
described above with reference to method 2600 may be optionally implemented as one or more
hardware units, such as those described with regard to FIG. 5B.
[00279]      FIG. 27 is a flow diagram illustrating process 2700 for managing notifications and
alerts. Process 2700 may be performed at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive display
screen, such as device 500 (FIG. 5A). At block 2702, while displaying content, the device
receives an alert comprising information. At block 2704, in response to receiving the alert,
                                                  71

1002183742
device 500 displays a notification banner across the display. The banner comprises a portion of
the information. At least a portion of the content continues to be displayed on the display. At
block 2706, the device detects a contact on the banner. In response to detecting the contact, at
block 2708, the device displays a second portion of the information. The second portion is
different from the first portion.
[00280]     Note that details of the processes described above with respect to process 2700 (e.g.,
FIGS. 27 and 24) are also applicable in an analogous manner to the other processes described
herein. For example, processes 2500 and 2600 may include one or more of the characteristics of
the various processes described above with reference to process 2700. For brevity, these details
are not repeated in the descriptions of the other processes. The various methods and techniques
described above with reference to method 2700 may be optionally implemented as one or more
hardware units, such as those described with regard to FIG. 5B.
[00281]     The units of FIG. 28 may be used to implement the various techniques and methods
described above with respect to FIGS. 25-27.
[00282]     As shown in FIG. 28, an electronic device 2800 includes a display unit 2802
configured to display a user interface, and, optionally: a touch-sensitive surface unit 2804
configured to receive user contacts, one or more sensor units 2806 configured to detect intensity
of touches with the touch-sensitive surface unit; and a processing unit 2808 coupled to the
display unit 2802, the touch-sensitive surface unit 2804, and the sensor units 2806. In some
embodiments, the processing unit 2808 includes a display enabling unit 2810, a receiving unit
2812, and a determining unit 2814.
[00283]     In some embodiments, the display enabling unit 2810 is configured to cause a display
of a notification, alert information, or user interface (or portions of a user interface) in
conjunction with the display unit 2802. For example, the display enabling unit 2810 may be
used for: displaying a notification, replacing a first notification with a second notification on the
display, displaying a user interface for selecting one of a plurality of message-processing
operations.
[00284]     In some embodiments, the receiving unit 2812 is configured to receive alerts, data, or
information. For example, the receiving unit 2812 may be used for receiving an alert comprising
information.
                                                   72

1002183742
[00285]     In some embodiments, the determining unit 2814 is configured to make
determinations. For example, the determining unit 2814 may be used for: determining whether a
signal has been received within a predetermined time interval after a perceptual output; and
determining whether the characteristic intensity of the second contact is above a threshold
intensity.
[00286]     FIG. 29 shows a functional block diagram of an electronic device 2900 configured in
accordance with the principles of the various described embodiments. The functional blocks of
the device are, optionally, implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware
and software to carry out the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood
by persons of skill in the art that the function blocks described in FIG. 29 are, optionally,
combined or separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described
embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible combination or
separation or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00287]     As shown in FIG. 29, an electronic device 2900 includes a display unit 2902
configured to display a graphic user interface, a haptic mechanism unit 2904 configured to issue
haptic outputs, and a processing unit 2908 coupled to the display unit 2902 and haptic
mechanism unit 2904. In some embodiments, the electronic device optionally includes a touch
sensitive surface unit 2926 configured to receive touch inputs and coupled to the display unit
2902 and processing unit 2908. In some embodiments, the electronic device 2900 optionally
includes a rotatable and depressible input unit 2906, a microphone unit 2926, and a button unit
2928. In some embodiments, the processing unit 2908 optionally includes a receiving unit 2910,
a perceptual output enabling unit 2912, a detecting unit 2914, a determining unit 2916, a display
enabling unit 2918, a launching unit 2920, a sending enabling unit 2922, and an audio enabling
unit 2924.
[00288]     Processing unit 2908 is configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 2910) an alert
including information, and, in response to receiving the alert, enable (e.g., with perceptual output
enabling unit 2912) a perceptual output. Processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect
(e.g., with detection unit 2914) a user input, determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916)
whether the user input was detected within a predetermined time interval after the perceptual
output, and, in accordance with a determination that the user input was detected within the
predetermined time interval, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a
                                                   73

1002183742
notification on the display unit 2902, where the notification comprises a first portion of the
information.
[00289]      In some embodiments, enabling the perceptual output includes causing the haptic
mechanism unit 2904 to issue a haptic output.
[00290]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in accordance
with a determination that the user input was detected after the predetermined time interval after
the perceptual output, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a clock face,
where the clock face comprises an indication that the alert is unread.
[00291]       In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in accordance
with a determination that the user input was detected after the predetermined time interval after
the perceptual output, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a home screen on
the display unit 2902, where the home screen comprises a plurality of user interface objects
representing a plurality of applications, the user interface objects, when activated, launching the
corresponding application, and where the home screen comprises an indication that the alert is
unread.
[00292]       In some embodiments, enabling display of the notification comprises activating the
display unit 2902 from an inactive state. In some embodiments, displaying the notification
comprises replacing display of a home screen with display of the notification. In some
embodiments, enabling display of the notification comprises enabling display of an animation
that translates the notification onto the display in a first direction.
[00293]      In some embodiments, the notification comprises an application affordance for
launching an application associated with the alert, and processing unit 2908 is further configured
to detect (e.g., with detecting unit 2914) a selection of the application affordance, and, in
response to detecting the selection, launch (e.g., with launching unit 2920) the application
associated with the alert.
[00294]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in response to
receiving the alert, determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916) whether a user activity level
meets an activity criteria, where issuing the perceptual output is delayed until the user activity
level meets the activity criteria.
                                                   74

1002183742
[00295]      In some embodiments, the electronic device is configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) an intensity of contacts on the touch-sensitive display (e.g., on touch
sensitive surface unit 2926), and processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a contact on the touch-sensitive display while the notification is displayed
on display unit 2902 and determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916) whether the characteristic
intensity of the contact is above a threshold intensity. In some embodiments, processing unit
2908 is further configured to, in accordance with a determination that the characteristic intensity
of the contact is above the threshold intensity, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918)
display of an option for suppressing one or more subsequent alerts that meet a mute criteria. In
some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in accordance with a
determination that the characteristic intensity of the contact is below the threshold intensity, and
in accordance with a determination that the contact is at a location on the touch-sensitive display
corresponding to the application affordance, launch (e.g., with launching unit 2920) the
application associated with the alert. In some embodiments, the mute criteria is based on the
source of the alert.
[00296]     In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a second contact on the touch-sensitive display while the notification is
displayed, determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916) whether the second contact meets a
dismissal criteria, and, in accordance with a determination that the second contact meets the
dismissal criteria, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) removal of the notification from
the display. In some embodiments, the second contact meets the dismissal criteria when the
second contact comprises a swipe. In some embodiments, the second contact meets the
dismissal criteria when the second contact comprises a movement of the second contact that
exceeds a threshold distance.
[00297]     In some embodiments, enabling display of the notification includes enabling display
of an animation that translates the notification onto the display unit in a first direction, and the
second contact meets the dismissal criteria when the second contact comprises a movement of
the contact in a second direction opposite the first direction.
[00298]     In some embodiments, the second contact includes a movement of the second contact
and a release of the second contact, and processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in response
to detecting the movement of the second contact: enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918)
the sliding of the notification on the display in accordance with the movement of the second
                                                   75

1002183742
contact, and enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a dismissal indicator
adjacent to the notification. Optionally, processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in
accordance with a determination that the second contact meets the dismissal criteria and in
response to detecting the release of the second contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit
2918) removal of the dismissal indicator and the notification from the display. Optionally,
processing unit 2908 is further configured to, in accordance with a determination that the second
contact does not meet the dismissal criteria and in response to detecting the release of the second
contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of an animation that translates the
notification back to its initial position on the display and enable removal of the dismissal
indicator from the display.
[00299]      In some embodiments, removing the notification includes displaying an animation
that translates the notification off of the display in the second direction. In some embodiments,
removing the notification from the display includes inactivating the display. In some
embodiments, removing the notification from the display includes replacing display of the
notification with display of a home screen, and the home screen comprises an indication that the
alert is unread. In some embodiments, removing the notification from the display includes
replacing display of the notification with display of a clock face, and the clock face includes an
indication that the alert is unread.
[00300]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to: determine (e.g.,
with determining unit 2916) whether a second user input has been detected within a second
predetermined time interval after displaying the notification; in accordance with a determination
that the second user input has been detected within the second predetermined time interval,
enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) removal of the notification from the display; and in
accordance with a determination that the second user input has not been detected within the
second predetermined time interval, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a
second portion of the information, where the second portion is different from the first portion.
[00301]       In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to: determine (e.g.,
with determining unit 2916) whether the user input continues to be detected after a second
predetermined time interval after displaying the notification; in accordance with a determination
that the user input continues to be detected after the second predetermined time interval, enable
(e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a second portion of the information on the
display unit, where the second portion is different from the first portion; and in accordance with
                                                    76

1002183742
a determination that the user input does not continue to be detected after the second
predetermined time interval, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) removal of the
notification from the display unit.
[00302]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a third contact on the touch-sensitive display (e.g., on touch-sensitive
surface unit 2926) while displaying the notification, and, in response to detecting the third
contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display on the display unit 2902 of a
second portion of the information, and the second portion is different from the first portion. In
some embodiments, the second portion is displayed adjacent to the notification. In some
embodiments, the third contact is a swipe in the first direction, and enabling display of the
second portion of the information comprises sliding the second portion of the information onto
the screen in the first direction.
[00303]      In some embodiments, enabling display of the second portion of the information
further includes obtaining (e.g., with receiving unit 2910) configuration data indicating whether
to display the second portion of the information and enabling display of the second portion of the
information in response to a determination that the configuration data indicates that the second
portion of the information should be displayed.
[00304]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a selection of the application affordance while displaying the notification,
and launch (e.g., with launching unit 2920) an application associated with the alert in response to
detecting the fourth contact.
[00305]       In some embodiments, the alert is an electronic message, and the processing unit is
further configured to detect (e.g., with detecting unit 2914) a fourth contact on the touch
sensitive display while the second portion of the information is displayed, and, in response to
detecting the fourth contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display, on the display
unit, of at least a portion of a message conversation including electronic messages sent to and
received from a source of the electronic message.
[00306]      In some embodiments, the alert includes audio content, displaying the second portion
of the information includes displaying an option to play the audio content, and processing unit
2908 is further configured to: detect (e.g., with detecting unit 2914) a selection of the option to
play the audio content; and enable (e.g., with audio enabling unit 2924) playing of the audio
                                                  77

1002183742
content in response to detecting the selection. In some embodiments, the audio content is a first
audio content, and processing unit 2908 is further configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit
2910) a second alert comprising second audio content after detecting the selection of the option
to play the first audio content and enable (e.g., with audio enabling unit 2924) playing of the
second audio content in response to receiving the second alert.
[00307]       In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a third user input while displaying the second portion of the information
and, in response to detecting the third user input, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918)
scrolling of the second portion of the information in accordance with the third user input. In
some embodiments, the third user input is a swipe on the touch-sensitive display (e.g., on touch
sensitive surface unit 2926). In some embodiments, the third user input is a rotation of the
rotatable and depressible input unit 2906.
[00308]      In some embodiments, the third user input is associated with a downward direction,
and the processing unit 2908 is further configured to determine (e.g., with determining unit
2916) whether a beginning of the information is displayed on the display unit 2902, and in
accordance with a determination that the beginning of the information is displayed and in
response to detecting the third user input, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) removal
of the second portion of the information from the display unit.
[00309]      In some embodiments, the third user input is associated with an upward direction, and
the processing unit 2908 is further configured to determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916)
whether an end of the information is displayed and, in accordance with a determination that the
end of the information is displayed on the display unit 2902 and in response to detecting the third
user input, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a first plurality of user
interface objects on the display unit. Optionally, the user interface objects are associated with
actions corresponding to an application associated with the alert. In some embodiments, the first
plurality of user interface objects are scrolled upward onto the display below the end of the
information as the information is scrolled upwards on the display unit.
[00310]      In some embodiments, enabling removal of the second portion of the information
from the display unit includes enabling replacement of the display, on the display unit, of the
second portion of the notification with a display, on the display unit, of a home screen
comprising an indication of the time, and the home screen is displayed without an indication that
the alert is unread. In some embodiments, enabling removal of the second portion of the
                                                  78

1002183742
information includes enabling sliding the second portion of the information off of the display
unit in the second direction.
[00311]     In some embodiments, the electronic device is configured to detect an intensity of
contacts on the touch-sensitive display (e.g., on touch-sensitive surface unit 2926), and
processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with receiving unit 2914) a fifth contact
on the touch-sensitive display, and determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916) whether the
characteristic intensity of the fifth contact is above a threshold intensity. In some embodiments,
processing unit 2908 is further configured to: in accordance with a determination that the
characteristic intensity of the fifth contact is above the threshold intensity, enable (e.g., with
display enabling unit 2918) display, on display unit 2902, of a first plurality of user interface
objects, where the user interface objects are associated with actions corresponding to the
application associated with the alert; and in accordance with a determination that the
characteristic intensity of the fifth contact is below the threshold intensity, launch (e.g., with
launching unit 2920) an application associated with the alert.
[00312]     In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a selection of a first user interface object in the first plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the first user interface object,
enable (e.g., with sending enabling unit 2922) sending of data to an external electronic device to
cause the external electronic device to launch (e.g., with launching unit 2920) the application
associated with the alert.
[00313]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to determine (e.g.,
with determining unit 2916) whether user input has been received within a third predetermined
time interval while the second portion of the information is displayed and, in accordance with a
determination that no user input has been received within the third predetermined time interval,
inactivate (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) the display unit 2902.
[00314]     In some embodiments, the notification is displayed on display unit 2902 adjacent to
the second portion of the information, the notification includes an application affordance, and
processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with receiving unit 2914) a selection of
the application affordance while the second portion of the information is displayed and, in
response to detecting the selection of the application affordance, enable (e.g., with display
enabling unit 2918) display of a second plurality of user interface objects on the display unit.
                                                    79

1002183742
[00315]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a first user interface object of the second plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the first user interface object,
enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a third plurality of user interface objects
on the display unit.
[00316]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect an input
on the button unit 2928 and, in response to detecting the input on the button unit 2928, enable
(e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a third plurality of user interface objects on the
display unit.
[00317]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a first user interface object of the third plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the first user interface object of the
third plurality of user interface objects, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of a
user interface for selecting a predefined response message on the display unit.
[00318]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a first predefined response message and, in response to
detecting the selection of the first predefined response message, enable (e.g., with sending
enabling unit 2922) sending of the first predefined response message to a source of the alert.
[00319]       In some embodiments, sending the first predefined response message to the source of
the alert includes displaying a confirmation affordance, detecting a selection of the confirmation
affordance, and, in response to detecting the selection of the confirmation affordance, enabling
sending of the first predefined response message to the source of the alert.
[00320]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to, after enabling
sending of the first predefined response message to the source, enable (e.g., with display
enabling unit 2918) display of a message-sent confirmation screen on the display unit and enable
replacement of the display of the message-sent confirmation screen with display of the home
screen, where the home screen is displayed, on the display unit, without an indication that the
alert is unread.
[00321]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a second user interface object of the third plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the second user interface object of
                                                   80

1002183742
the third plurality of user interface objects, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display
of a user interface for selecting an emoji icon on the display unit.
[00322]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a first emoji icon and, in response to detecting the selection of
the first emoji icon, enable (e.g., with sending enabling unit 2922) sending the first emoji icon to
the source of the alert. In some embodiments, enabling sending of the emoji icon to the source
of the alert includes enabling display of a confirmation affordance on the display unit 2902,
detecting a selection of the confirmation affordance, and, in response to detecting the selection of
the confirmation affordance, enabling sending of the emoji icon to the source of the alert.
[00323]       In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a second user interface object of the second plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the second user interface object of
the second plurality of user interface objects: determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916)
whether the second portion of the information was displayed on the display unit 2902; in
accordance with a determination that the second portion of the information was displayed, enable
(e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of the home screen on the display unit, where the
home screen is displayed without an indication that the alert is unread; and in accordance with a
determination that the second portion of the information was not displayed, enable (e.g., with
display enabling unit 2918) display of the home screen, where the home screen comprises an
indication that the alert is unread.
[00324]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a second user interface object of the second plurality of user
interface objects, and, in response to detecting the selection of the second user interface object of
the second plurality of user interface objects: determine (e.g., with determining unit 2916)
whether the second portion of the information was displayed on the display unit 2902; in
accordance with a determination that the second portion of the information was displayed, enable
(e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of the clock face, where the clock face is
displayed without an indication that the alert is unread; and in accordance with a determination
that the second portion of the information was not displayed, enable (e.g., with display enabling
unit 2918) display of the clock face, where the clock face comprises an indication that the alert is
unread.
                                                   81

1002183742
[00325]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
receiving unit 2914) a selection of a third user interface object of the second plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the third user interface object of
the second plurality of user interface objects, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918)
display of a virtual keyboard on the display.
[00326]       In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a selection of a fourth user interface object of the second plurality of user
interface objects and, in response to detecting the selection of the fourth user interface object of
the second plurality of user interface objects: enable (e.g., with audio enabling unit 2924)
recording of an audio input from the microphone unit and enable (e.g., with sending enabling
unit 2922) sending of data corresponding to the recorded audio input to the source of the alert.
[00327]       In some embodiments, enabling sending of the data corresponding to the recorded
audio input includes enabling display (e.g., using display enabling unit 2918) of an indication of
the recorded audio input and a send affordance on the display unit, detecting a selection of the
send affordance, and, in response to detecting the selection of the send affordance, enabling
sending of the data corresponding to the recorded audio input to the source of the alert.
[00328]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a depression of the rotatable and depressible input unit 2906 after launching
the application, and enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display of the home screen on
the display unit in response to detecting the depression.
[00329]      In some embodiments, the rotatable and depressible input unit 2906 is a mechanical
button that is rotatable, and the depression represents a press on the mechanical button. In some
embodiments, the rotatable and depressible input unit 2906 is a capacitive button that is
rotatable, and the depression represents a touch on the capacitive button.
[00330]      In some embodiments, the notification is a first notification, and processing unit 2908
is further configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 2910) a second alert comprising second
information while the first notification is displayed on the display unit 2902, and, in response to
receiving the second alert, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) replacement of display
of the first notification with display of a second notification on the display unit, where the second
notification comprises a first portion of the second information.
                                                   82

1002183742
[00331]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to enable (e.g., with
perceptual output enabling unit 2912) a second perceptual output in response to receiving the
second alert.
[00332]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a request to dismiss the second notification and, in response to detecting the
request, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) dismissal of the second notification and
enable re-display of the first notification on the display unit 2902.
[00333]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a request to dismiss the second notification and, in response to detecting the
request, enable dismissal of the second notification and enable (e.g., with display enabling unit
2918) display of the home screen on the display unit, where the home screen comprises an
indication that the first alert and the second alert are unread.
[00334]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a request to dismiss the second notification and, in response to detecting the
request, enable dismissal of the second notification and enable (e.g., with display enabling unit
2918) display of the clock face on the display unit 2902, where the clock face comprises an
indication that the first alert and the second alert are unread.
[00335]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to receive (e.g.,
with receiving unit 2910) a second alert comprising second information while displaying the
second portion of the information, and, in response to receiving the second alert, enable (e.g.,
with display enabling unit 2918) replacement of display of the second portion of the information
with display of a second notification on the display unit 2902, where the second notification
comprises a first portion of the second information.
[00336]      In some embodiments, the alert is a first alert received from a source, and processing
unit 2908 is further configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 2910) a second alert from the
source while displaying the second portion of the information, and enable (e.g., with display
enabling unit 2918) display of a grouped notification representing the first alert and the second
alert in response to receiving the second alert. In some embodiments, the first alert and the
second alert are associated with the same application.
[00337]      In some embodiments, processing unit 2908 is further configured to detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 2914) a sixth contact on the grouped notification and, in response to detecting the
                                                   83

1002183742
sixth contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) display, on the display unit, of a list
of alerts received from the source, where the list of alerts is associated with the same application.
[00338]      In some embodiments, the alert is a fitness alert, and processing unit 2908 is further
configured to, after a second predetermined time interval, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit
2918) replacement of display on the display unit 2902 of the notification with display of a user
interface object representing a fitness achievement, and, after a third predetermined time interval,
enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 2918) replacement of display on the display unit of the
user interface object with display of a second portion of the information, where the second
portion is different from the first portion.
[00339]      The operations described above with reference to FIG. 25 are, optionally,
implemented by components depicted in FIGS. 1A-1B or FIG. 29. For example, receiving
operation 2502, issuing operation 2504, detecting operation 2506, determining operation 2508,
and displaying operation 2510 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer
180, and event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch
sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to
application 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event
information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a first
location on the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation or other movement of the device)
corresponds to a predefined event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface,
or rotation of the device from one orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or
sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the
detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater 176
or object updater 177 to update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments, event
handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the
application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other
processes can be implemented based on the components depicted in FIGS. lA-lB.
[00340]      In accordance with some embodiments, FIG. 30 shows a functional block diagram of
an electronic device 3000 configured in accordance with the principles of the various described
embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally, implemented by hardware,
software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out the principles of the various
described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in the art that the function blocks
described in FIG. 30 are, optionally, combined or separated into sub-blocks to implement the
                                                  84

1002183742
principles of the various described embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally
supports any possible combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks
described herein.
[00341]     As shown in FIG. 30, an electronic device 3000 includes a display unit 3002
configured to display a graphic user interface and a processing unit 3004 coupled to the display
unit 3002. In some embodiments, the electronic device optionally includes a touch-sensitive
surface unit 3016 configured to receive touch inputs and coupled to the display unit 3002 and
processing unit 3004. In some embodiments, the processing unit 3004 optionally includes a
receiving unit 3006, a determining unit 3008, a display enabling unit 3010, a detecting unit 3012,
and a perceptual output enabling unit 3014.
[00342]     Processing unit 3004 is configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 3006) a
plurality of alerts and, in response to receiving the plurality of alerts, determine (e.g., with
determining unit 3008) whether the plurality of alerts meet a grouping criteria. Processing unit
3004 is further configured to, in accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts meet
the grouping criteria, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 3010) display of a grouped
notification representing the plurality of alerts on the display unit 3002, and, in response to a
determination that the plurality of alerts do not meet the grouping criteria, enable (e.g., with
display enabling unit 3010) display of a plurality of notifications representing the plurality of
alerts on the display unit.
[00343]     In some embodiments, the grouping criteria is based on one or more criteria selected
from the group consisting of: whether the plurality of alerts are received from the same source;
whether the plurality of alerts exceeds a numeric threshold of alerts; whether the plurality of
alerts are associated with the same application; and whether the plurality of alerts are received
within a predetermined time period.
[00344]     In some embodiments, the plurality of alerts includes a first alert and a second alert
that are received from the same source and are associated with the same application, the first
alert and the second alert meet the grouping criteria, the first alert comprises first information
and the second alert comprises second information, and the display unit is a touch-sensitive
display unit. In some embodiments, processing unit 3004 is further configured to detect (e.g.,
with detecting unit 3012) a seventh contact on the touch-sensitive display unit (e.g., on touch
sensitive surface unit 3016) at a location corresponding to the grouped notification and, in
                                                   85

1002183742
response to detecting the seventh contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 3010) display
of the first information and the second information on the display unit 3002.
[00345]      In some embodiments, the first alert and the second alert are received from different
sources and are associated with the same application and processing unit 3004 is further
configured to detect (e.g., with detecting unit 3012) an eighth contact on the touch-sensitive
display unit (e.g., on touch-sensitive surface unit 3016) at a location corresponding to the
grouped notification and, in response to detecting the eighth contact, enable (e.g., with display
enabling unit 3010) display, on the display unit 3002, of a list of alerts associated with the
application, where the list of alerts comprises the first alert and the second alert.
[00346]       In some embodiments, the plurality of alerts are associated with a plurality of
applications, and where the plurality of alerts meets the grouping criteria, where the display unit
is a touch-sensitive display unit, and processing unit 3004 is further configured to enable (e.g.,
with display enabling unit 3010) display of a grouped notification representing the plurality of
alerts, detect (e.g., with detecting unit 3012) a ninth contact on the touch-sensitive display at a
location corresponding to the grouped notification, and, in response to detecting the ninth
contact, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 3010) display of a list of notifications
representing the plurality of alerts, where the received alerts comprise the first alert and the
second alert.
[00347]      In some embodiments, processing unit 3004 is further configured to enable (e.g., with
perceptual output enabling unit 3014) a perceptual output in further response to receiving the
plurality of alerts. In some embodiments, processing unit 3004 is further configured to, further
in accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts meets the grouping criteria, enable
(e.g., with perceptual output enabling unit 3014) a single perceptual output and, further in
accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts does not meet the grouping criteria,
enable (e.g., with perceptual output enabling unit 3014) a plurality of perceptual outputs
corresponding to the plurality of alerts.
[00348]      The operations described above with reference to FIG. 26 are, optionally,
implemented by components depicted in FIGS. 1A-1B or FIG. 30. For example, receiving
operation 2602, determining operation 2604, detecting operation 2606, and displaying operations
2608 and 2610 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event
handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive display
112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application 136-1. A
                                                   86

1002183742
respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event information to
respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a first location on the
touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation or other movement of the device) corresponds to a
predefined event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface, or rotation of the
device from one orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or sub-event is
detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the detection of the
event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater 176 or object updater
177 to update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190
accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the application. Similarly,
it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other processes can be
implemented based on the components depicted in FIGS. lA-lB.
[00349]     In accordance with some embodiments, FIG. 31 shows a functional block diagram of
an electronic device 3100 configured in accordance with the principles of the various described
embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally, implemented by hardware,
software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out the principles of the various
described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in the art that the function blocks
described in FIG. 31 are, optionally, combined or separated into sub-blocks to implement the
principles of the various described embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally
supports any possible combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks
described herein.
[00350]     As shown in FIG. 31, an electronic device 3100 includes a touch-sensitive display
unit 3102, configured to receive contacts and display a graphic user interface, and a processing
unit 3104 coupled to the display unit 3102. In some embodiments, the processing unit 3104
optionally includes a receiving unit 3106, a display enabling unit 3108, and a detecting unit
3110.
[00351]     Processing unit 3104 is configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 3106) an alert
comprising information while the display unit is actively displaying content, and, in response to
receiving the alert, enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 3108) display of a notification banner
across a portion of the touch-sensitive display unit 3102, where the notification banner
comprises a first portion of the information and where at least a portion of the content continues
to be displayed. Processing unit 3104 is further configured to detect (e.g., with detecting unit
3110) a contact on the touch-sensitive display unit at a location corresponding to the notification
                                                  87

1002183742
banner and enable (e.g., with display enabling unit 3108) display, on the display unit, of a second
portion of the information in response to detecting the contact, where the second portion is
different from the first portion.
[00352]     The operations described above with reference to FIG. 27 are, optionally,
implemented by components depicted in FIGS. 1A-1B or FIG. 31. For example, receiving
operation 2702, displaying operations 2704 and 2708, and detecting operation 2706 are,
optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event handler 190.
Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and event
dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application 136-1. A respective event
recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event information to respective event
definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a first location on the touch-sensitive
surface (or whether rotation or other movement of the device) corresponds to a predefined event
or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface, or rotation of the device from one
orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or sub-event is detected, event
recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the detection of the event or sub
event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater 176 or object updater 177 to
update the application internal state 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a
respective GUI updater 178 to update what is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would
be clear to a person having ordinary skill in the art how other processes can be implemented
based on the components depicted in FIGS. lA-lB.
[00353]     The foregoing descriptions, for purpose of explanation, have been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and
variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and
described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications, to
thereby enable others skilled in the art to best use the invention and various described
embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.
                                                  88

1002183742
                                               CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
          1.     A method, comprising:
         at an electronic device with a display:
                 receiving a plurality of alerts;
                 in response to receiving the plurality of alerts:
                          determining whether the plurality of alerts meet a grouping criteria;
                          in accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts meet the
                 grouping criteria, displaying a grouped notification representing the plurality
                 of alerts; and
                          in response to a determination that the plurality of alerts do not meet
                 the grouping criteria:
                                   displaying a plurality of notifications representing the plurality
                          of alerts, wherein the grouping criteria includes a criterion that is met
                          when the plurality of alerts are received within a predetermined time
                          period.
         2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the grouping criteria includes a criterion
that is met when the plurality of alerts are received from the same source.
         3. The method according to any of claims 1-2, wherein the grouping criteria includes
a criterion that is met when the plurality of alerts exceeds a numeric threshold of alerts.
         4. The method according to any of claims 1-3, wherein the grouping criteria includes
a criterion that is met when the plurality of alerts are associated with the same application.
         5. The method according to any of claims 1-4, wherein the plurality of alerts
comprises a first alert and a second alert that are received from the same source and are
                                                   89

1002183742
associated with the same application, and wherein the first alert and the second alert meet the
grouping criteria, and wherein the first alert comprises first information and the second alert
comprises second information, the method further comprising:
         detecting a first contact on the display at a location corresponding to the grouped
notification;
         in response to detecting the first contact, displaying the first information and the
second information on the display.
         6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising:
         detecting a second contact on at least one of the first information and the second
information on the display; and
         in response to detecting the second contact, displaying alert content associated with
the selected first or second information.
         7. The method according to any of claims 1-6, wherein the plurality of alerts
comprises a first alert and a second alert that are received from different sources and are
associated with the same application, and wherein the first alert and the second alert meet the
grouping criteria, the method further comprising:
         detecting a third contact on the display at a location corresponding to the grouped
notification;
         in response to detecting the third contact, displaying a list of alerts associated with the
application, wherein the list of alerts comprises the first alert and the second alert.
          8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising:
         detecting a fourth contact on at least one of the first alert and the second alert in the
list of alerts; and
         in response to detecting the fourth contact, displaying alert content associated with the
selected first or second alert.
                                                  90

1002183742
         9. The method according to any of claims 1-8, wherein the plurality of alerts are
associated with a plurality of applications, and wherein the plurality of alerts meets the
grouping criteria, the method further comprising:
         displaying a grouped notification representing the plurality of alerts;
         detecting a fifth contact on the display at a location corresponding to the grouped
notification; and
         in response to detecting the fifth contact, displaying a list of notifications representing
the plurality of alerts, wherein the plurality of alerts comprise at least a first alert and a
second alert.
          10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the list of notifications includes
separate notifications for each of the received alerts represented by the grouped notification,
the method further comprising:
         detecting a sixth contact selecting at least one of the separate notifications; and
         in response to detecting the sixth contact, displaying alert content associated with the
selected separate notification.
          11. The method according to any of claims 1-10, further comprising:
         in response to receiving the plurality of alerts, issuing a perceptual output.
          12. The method according to any of claims 1-11, further comprising:
         in accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts meets the grouping
criteria, issuing a single perceptual output; and
         in accordance with a determination that the plurality of alerts does not meet the
grouping criteria, issuing a plurality of perceptual outputs corresponding to the plurality of
alerts.
          13. The method according to any of claims 1-12, further comprising:
                                                  91

1002183742
         receiving a third alert, wherein the third alert comprises a time-sensitive alert;
         in response to receiving the third alert, determining that the third alert does not meet
the grouping criteria; and
         in accordance with the determination that the third alert does not meet the grouping
criteria, excluding the third alert from being included in the grouped notification representing
the plurality of alerts.
          14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising:
         in accordance with the determination that the third alert does not meet the grouping
criteria, displaying a single notification for the third alert.
          15. The method according to any of claims 13-14, wherein:
         the time-sensitive alert comprises at least one of a system alert and an urgent calendar
reminder alert.
          16. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or
more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of
an electronic device with a display, cause the device to perform the method of any one of
claims 1-15.
          17. An electronic device, comprising:
         a display;
         one or more processors;
         a memory; and
         one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for performing the method of any one of claims 1-15.
                                                  92

                                                                1/41
<removed-date>
                                 Memory 102                               Portable Multifunction Device 100
                                                         126 Applications (continued)                                     136
              Operating System
                                                         128                                                              148
              Communication Module                             Calendar Module
                                                         130                                                              149
              Contact/Motion Module                            Widget Modules
                                                         132                                                              149-1
              Graphics Module                                       Weather Widget(s)
                                                         133                                                              149-2
              Haptic Feedback Module                                Stocks Widget
                                                         134                                                              149-3
              Text Input Module                                     Calculator Widget
                                                         135                                                              149-4
              GPS Module                                            Alarm Clock Widget
<removed-apn>
                                                         136                                                              149-5
              Applications                                          Dictionary Widget
                                                         137
                Contacts Module
                                                         138                                                              149-6
                Telephone Module                                              User-Created Widget(s)
                                                         139                                                              114
                Video Conference Module                                   Widget Creator Module
                                                         140                                                              151
                E-mail Client Module                                      Search Module
                                                         141                                                              155
                Instant Messaging Module                                  Online Video Module
                                                         142
                Workout Support Module
                                                         143                                                              157
                Camera Module                                        Device/Global Internal State
                                                         144
                Image Management Module
                                                         152                           Power        162
                Video & Music Player Module
                                                         153                           System
                Notes Module
                Map Module                               154                       External         124
                Browser Module                           147                        Port
                                                       118                                103       RF Circuitry
                                           103                                103                                         Speaker
                                                                                                       108
                  104                                                                                                     111
                                                                                            103     Audio
                                    Controller                                                     Circuitry
                 122
                                                 103                                                 110
                                                             Peripherals                    103                      Microphone
                                                              Interface                            Proximity             113
                                                                                                    Sensor           166
                                                                                            103
                 120              Processor(s)
                                                                                                   Accelerometer(s)
                                                                                                         168
                 106                                                          103
                                                        I/O Subsystem
                  Display             Optical              Intensity                          Haptic            Other Input
                Controller 156       sensor(s)             sensor(s)                        Feedback            Controller(s)
                                   Controller 158        Controller 159                    Controller 161          160
                          103               103                      103                             103                 103
                   Touch-             Optical                 Contact                      Tactile Output        Other Input
                  Sensitive          Sensor(s)               Intensity                     Generator(s)        Control Devices
               Display System          164                   Sensor(s)                           167                116
                     112                                        165
                                                                 <U+2701>    <U+2702>   <U+2704>    <U+260E>   <U+2706>

                                                                            <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
                                                                    Event Sorter
                                                                       170
                                                                                                 171
                                                    Event Monitor
                                                                                                  172
                                                    Hit View Determination Module
                                                    Active Event Recognizer                       173
                                                    Determination Module
   Application 136-1
                                                                                                  174
Application                                         Event Dispatcher Module
  Application View 191
                               Event Recognizer 180                          Event Recognizer           180
  Application View 191                                                         Event Receiver            182            2/41
  Event Handler        190                                                     Event Comparator         184
                               Event Recognizer 180
     Data Updater      176                                                         Event Definitions     186
                               Event Data      179
     Object Updater 177                                                               Event 1           187-1
                                                                                      Event 2           187-2
     GUI Updater       178
                                                                                        
                                                                               Metadata                 183
  Event Handler        190                                                     Event Delivery           188
  Application Internal State
  192                                           <U+271D>   <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2721>   <U+261B>
                                                        <U+2720>

                                                      3/41
<removed-date>
                               Portable Multifunction Device 100
                    206                                   210                       212
                                             Optical Sensor         Proximity
                          Speaker 111
                                                  164              Sensor 166
              208   200
<removed-apn>
              208
                                         210 is SIM card slot
                                         212 is headphone jack
                                                                 202
                                           Touch Screen 112
                                             Contact Intensity
                                              Sensor(s) 165
                                             Tactile Output
                                            Generator(s) 167
                                                                 203
                            Microphone            Home           Accelerometer(s)
                                113                204                 168
                                         External Port 124
                                              <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>    <U+261E>

                                                                       4/41
<removed-date>
                                                                          Operating System                  126
                                                                          Communication Module              128
                                                 Memory 370                                                 130
                                                                          Contact/Motion Module
                                                                                                            132
                                                                          Graphics Module
                                                                                                            133
                                                                          Haptic Feedback Module
                                                                                                            134
                                                                          Text Input Module
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                            136
                                                                          Applications
                                                                                                            137
                                                                            Contacts Module
                                                                                                            138
                                                                            Telephone Module
                                                                                                            139
                                                                            Video Conference Module
                             Device 300                                                                     140
                                                                            E-mail Client Module
                                                                                                            141
                                                                            Instant Messaging Module
                                                                                                            142
                                                                            Workout Support Module
                                                                                                            143
                                                                            Camera Module
                                                                                                            144
                      310                                                   Image Management Module
                                      CPU(s)                                                                147
                                                                            Browser Module
                                                                                                            148
                                                 320                        Calendar Module
                                                                                                            149
                                                                            Widget Modules
                                                                                                            149-1
              330                                                                 Weather Widget
                                                                                                            149-2
                                                                                  Stocks Widget
                                                                                                            149-3
                     I/O Interface                                                Calculator Widget
                                                                                                            149-4
                                                                                  Alarm Clock Widget
                        Display                                                                             149-5
                                               340                                Dictionary Widget
                                                                                                            149-6
                    Keyboard/Mouse             350                                User-Created Widget(s)
                                                                                                            150
                                                                              Widget Creator Module
                       Touchpad                355                                                          151
                                                                              Search Module
                                                                                                            152
                     Tactile Output                                           Video & Music Player Module
                                                                                                            380
                     Generator(s)              357                            Drawing Module
                                                                                                            382
                                                                              Presentation Module
                       Sensor(s)               359                                                          384
                                                                              Word Processing Module
                                                                                                            386
                                                                              Website Creation Module
                                                                                                            388
                                          Network                             Disk Authoring Module
                                                                                                            390
                            360        Communications                         Spreadsheet Module
                                          Interface
                                                                          Device/Global Internal State      157
                                                       <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+270C>

                                                                   5/41
<removed-date>
                                             Portable Multifunction Device
                      206                                              100
                                                         Optical Sensor                         Proximity
                                   Speaker 111
                                                              164                              Sensor 166
                    400
                                                                                                      405
              208
                             402                  Current Time                          404                         406
<removed-apn>
                                                 Tuesday
              208
                                                 30
                          Messages            Calendar                                Photos            Camera
                               424                 426                                    428              430
                      Online Video               Stocks                               Maps              Weather
                             432                     434                               436                  438
                            Clock                Workout                              Notes             Settings
                               440               Support 442                             444                 446
                          App Store               iTunes                         Voice Memos            Utilities
                                            414                                 410
                                        4                          6
                               Phone 416            Mail 418                    Browser 420         iPod 422
                                                            408
                                                                                         Touch Screen 112
                                      Microphone                                         Accelerometer(s)
                                          113                                                  168
                                                   204
                                                           <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>    <U+270D>   <U+2706>

                                                      6/41
<removed-date>
                       450
                                                               468
<removed-apn>
                                                         470
                                                                     453
              451
                             460
                                  462
               Tactile Output
              Generator(s) 357                452
              Contact Intensity
               Sensor(s) 359
                                  <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+270D>   <U+270E>

                                                              7/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>   <U+271A>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>
                                                                                                <U+2711>   <U+2712>   <U+2715>
                                                                        <U+2711>       <U+2712>   <U+2714>
                              <U+2711>       <U+2712>       <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2711>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>
                                                                        <U+2711>       <U+2712>   <U+2716>
                                                                <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>           <U+270F>   <U+2706>

                                                      8/41
<removed-date>
                      <U+2724>
                                          <U+2605>
                      <U+2725>
                                          <U+2726>
                      <U+2722>                   <U+2722>
                                                  <U+2725>
                                                  <U+2726>
                                                  <U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2725>                   <U+2727>
              <U+2725>
                                  <U+2726>
              <U+2722>                   <U+2722>
                              <U+2724>
                              <U+2726>
                              <U+2722>
                                                                                 <U+261B>
                                                                                 <U+271C>
                                                                                 <U+271F>   <U+2720>
                                                             <U+2724>
                                                                 <U+2727>
                                                                         <U+2605>
                                                             <U+2729>   <U+2729>       <U+2729>
                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                             <U+2722>   <U+2722>       <U+2722>
                      <U+2724>
                                                                                 <U+271D>
                      <U+2723>
                      <U+2722>
                          <U+2727>
                          <U+2724>
                          <U+2726>
                                      <U+2605>
                                      <U+2724>
                                      <U+2726>
                                              <U+2723>
                                              <U+2729>
                                              <U+2722>
                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                             <U+2725>
                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                             <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                             <U+2722>
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2722>
                                                                     <U+2723>
                                                                     <U+2724>
                                                                     <U+2722>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9/41
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>                       <U+2715>           <U+2713>               <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>   <U+2715>       <U+2713>   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>           <U+2711>   <U+2715>       <U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>                                   <U+272D>                                           <U+272E>                                       <U+272F>                       <U+2730>                   <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>                           <U+2733>                                           <U+2734>                                   <U+2732>                           <U+2735>                       <U+2735>           <U+2736>   <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>                       <U+2732>                           <U+2738>                               <U+2739>                   <U+273A>                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>               <U+2711>           <U+2715>       <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>       <U+2711>       <U+2715>   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>                                                                                                       <U+2733>                           <U+2733>               <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>                                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                   <U+2712>                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>               <U+2711>           <U+2715>       <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>       <U+2711>       <U+2715>   <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>                   <U+2715>               <U+2713>               <U+272B>
                          <U+2711>           <U+2715>           <U+2713>           <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>               <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2743>               <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2743>               <U+2744>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2743>                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                  <U+2735>       <U+2734>                                           <U+2733>               <U+2734>                               <U+2732>       <U+2735>                                       <U+273B>                                                                               <U+2735>   <U+2734>                                       <U+2733>           <U+2734>                               <U+2732>       <U+2735>                                   <U+273B>                                                                           <U+2735>   <U+2734>                                       <U+2733>           <U+2734>                               <U+2732>       <U+2735>                                   <U+273B>                                                                       <U+2735>   <U+2734>                                       <U+2733>                   <U+2734>                                               <U+2732>                       <U+2735>                                                           <U+273B>
                                                                          <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                                                                                           <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                                                                                       <U+272C>                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                      <U+2733>                       <U+273A>                       <U+2732>                                                           <U+2733>                                               <U+2733>               <U+2734>                                                           <U+2733>               <U+273A>               <U+2732>                                                           <U+2733>                                           <U+2733>               <U+2734>                                                       <U+2733>               <U+273A>               <U+2732>                                                           <U+2733>                                           <U+2733>               <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>               <U+273A>               <U+2732>                                                                                   <U+2733>                                                                                   <U+2733>                           <U+2734>
              <U+273C>                                                                   <U+272E>                           <U+273D>                                   <U+273C>                                                                               <U+272C>                   <U+273C>                                                       <U+272E>                       <U+273D>                                   <U+273C>                                                           <U+272C>                               <U+273C>                                                       <U+272E>                       <U+273D>                                   <U+273C>                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>                                                               <U+272E>                               <U+273D>                                                                       <U+273C>                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                          <U+2735>       <U+2734>                                               <U+2733>           <U+2734>                       <U+2732>                   <U+2735>                                       <U+273B>                                                                   <U+2735>   <U+2734>                                               <U+2733>           <U+2734>                       <U+2732>               <U+2735>                           <U+273B>                                                                           <U+2735>   <U+2734>                                               <U+2733>           <U+2734>                       <U+2732>           <U+2735>                                   <U+273B>                                                                   <U+2735>   <U+2734>                                                           <U+2733>                           <U+2734>                                           <U+2732>                           <U+2735>                                               <U+273B>
                  <U+272D>           <U+273E>                                                                   <U+272C>                                                                                       <U+272C>                                                               <U+272D>       <U+273E>                                                       <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                           <U+272D>       <U+273E>                                                       <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                       <U+272D>       <U+273E>                                                           <U+272C>                                                                                                                                               <U+272C>
                                                      <U+2732>                       <U+2733>               <U+2734>                       <U+2732>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2732>                   <U+2733>               <U+2734>                       <U+2732>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2732>                   <U+2733>               <U+2734>                       <U+2732>                                                                                                                                               <U+2732>                   <U+2733>                   <U+2734>                               <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>               <U+273D>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272D>               <U+273D>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272D>               <U+273D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272D>                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+273F>           <U+2740>               <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>           <U+2740>           <U+2741>               <U+2742>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273F>           <U+2740>           <U+2741>               <U+272F>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>           <U+2740>                   <U+2741>                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>           <U+2702>           <U+2704>       <U+270F>   <U+2747>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10/41
<removed-date>                                                                                                                   <U+2711>       <U+2715>           <U+2713>       <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>   <U+2715>       <U+2713>   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>               <U+2711>                       <U+2715>           <U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>                       <U+272D>                           <U+272E>                           <U+272F>                   <U+2730>               <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>           <U+2733>                           <U+2734>                       <U+2732>                           <U+2735>                   <U+2735>           <U+2736>   <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>       <U+2732>                   <U+2738>                           <U+2739>                   <U+273A>               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>       <U+2711>               <U+2715>   <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>   <U+2711>           <U+2715>               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>                                                               <U+2733>                           <U+2733>           <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>                           <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>   <U+2712>                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>               <U+2711>                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>       <U+2711>               <U+2715>   <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>   <U+2711>           <U+2715>               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>       <U+2715>           <U+2713>       <U+272B>
                                                  <U+2711>       <U+2715>               <U+2713>       <U+271B>
                                                                                                          <U+2743>                                                                                                                               <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2743>                                                                                                               <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                                                                               <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>                                                                                                                   <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                          <U+2743>           <U+2744>                                                                                                                   <U+2743>           <U+2744>                                                                                                                                       <U+2743>           <U+2744>                                                                                                   <U+2743>               <U+2744>                                                                                                                                           <U+2743>               <U+2744>
                                                                                                      <U+2745>                                                                                                                               <U+2745>                                                                                                                                               <U+2745>                                                                                                                   <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                                                                               <U+2746>                                                                                                                                               <U+2746>                                                                                                                   <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                      <U+2741>                                                                                                                               <U+2741>                                                                                                                                               <U+2741>                                                                                                                   <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2741>
                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                                                                               <U+2740>                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>                                                                                                                   <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
              <U+2735>   <U+2734>           <U+2733>           <U+2734>                   <U+2732>               <U+2735>                   <U+273B>                               <U+2735>       <U+2734>                                   <U+2733>           <U+2734>           <U+2732>           <U+2735>               <U+273B>                           <U+2735>   <U+2734>           <U+2733>               <U+2734>                               <U+2732>                       <U+2735>                       <U+273B>                                   <U+2735>   <U+2734>           <U+2733>               <U+2734>           <U+2732>           <U+2735>                       <U+273B>
                          <U+272C>                                                               <U+272C>                       <U+272D>       <U+273E>                                       <U+272C>                                                       <U+272C>                       <U+272D>       <U+273E>               <U+272C>                                                                                           <U+272C>                               <U+272D>       <U+273E>               <U+272C>                                                   <U+272C>                                       <U+272D>               <U+273E>
                                              <U+2734>                                       <U+273A>                                                                                                       <U+2734>                       <U+273A>                                                                           <U+2734>                                                           <U+273A>                                                                                       <U+2734>                       <U+273A>                                                                                               <U+2734>                                       <U+273A>
                      <U+272F>               <U+272D>                           <U+272C>                           <U+272F>               <U+272C>                                               <U+272F>                       <U+272D>                   <U+272C>                   <U+272F>               <U+272C>                       <U+272F>               <U+272D>                                               <U+272C>                                   <U+272F>                       <U+272C>                       <U+272F>               <U+272D>                       <U+272C>                           <U+272F>                   <U+272C>                                   <U+272F>       <U+272D>                           <U+272C>                                                       <U+272F>                           <U+272C>
                                                                      <U+273A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                  <U+273F>       <U+2740>           <U+2741>                                                                                                                           <U+273F>       <U+2740>       <U+2741>           <U+2742>                                                                   <U+273F>       <U+2740>                       <U+2741>                       <U+272F>                                                                                           <U+273F>       <U+2740>           <U+2741>           <U+2737>                                                                                   <U+273F>           <U+2740>           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>                   <U+2702>                               <U+2704>               <U+270F>       <U+2748>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11/41
<removed-date>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2735>   <U+2732>                   <U+2738>                   <U+2739>                   <U+273A>                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>           <U+2712>               <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2711>           <U+2749>           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>       <U+2749>       <U+2715>   <U+272A>               <U+2711>           <U+2749>           <U+2715>       <U+272B>                                            <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2715>   <U+271B>       <U+2711>       <U+2749>       <U+2715>   <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>       <U+2749>       <U+2716>
                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2749>           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>           <U+2738>               <U+2738>                                        <U+273A>       <U+2738>           <U+2738>       <U+25CF>       <U+273A>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                        <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>           <U+2716>       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                  <U+272C>                   <U+272D>                   <U+272E>               <U+272F>                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
              <U+2732>   <U+2733>       <U+2734>               <U+2732>               <U+2735>                           <U+2735>       <U+2736>                           <U+2733>
                                                                      <U+272C>
                      <U+2732>                                                       <U+273A>                                               <U+2733>
                              <U+272E>               <U+273D>                   <U+273E>                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>       <U+274A>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>       <U+2716>               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2735>   <U+2734>               <U+2733>               <U+2734>                           <U+2732>                   <U+2735>                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                               <U+272D>   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2734>                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272F>               <U+272D>                                           <U+272C>                                   <U+272F>               <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273F>                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>           <U+2702>   <U+2704>    <U+270F>   <U+274D>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12/41
<removed-date>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2735>   <U+2732>                   <U+2738>               <U+2739>               <U+273A>           <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>       <U+2712>               <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2711>           <U+2749>           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2714>       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>               <U+272D>                       <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>       <U+2749>       <U+2716>
                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2749>           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                   <U+2738>                   <U+2738>                                    <U+273A>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>   <U+25CF>   <U+273A>   <U+2738>   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>           <U+2738>       <U+2738>   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                                            <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>           <U+2749>           <U+2715>               <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2716>       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                  <U+272C>                   <U+272D>                   <U+272E>               <U+272F>                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
              <U+2732>   <U+2733>       <U+2734>               <U+2732>               <U+2735>                           <U+2735>       <U+2736>                           <U+2733>
                                                                      <U+272C>
                      <U+2732>                                                       <U+273A>                                               <U+2733>
                              <U+272E>               <U+273D>                   <U+273E>                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>       <U+274A>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>       <U+2716>               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2735>   <U+2734>               <U+2733>           <U+2734>                           <U+2732>               <U+2735>                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272C>                                                                   <U+272C>                           <U+272D>   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2734>                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>           <U+272D>                                       <U+272C>                           <U+272F>           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273F>                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>           <U+2702>   <U+2704>    <U+270F>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13/41
<removed-date>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2735>   <U+2732>                   <U+2738>                   <U+2739>                   <U+273A>               <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>           <U+2712>               <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2711>           <U+2749>           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2714>       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>                   <U+272D>                           <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2714>       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>                   <U+272D>                           <U+272F>                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>       <U+2749>       <U+2716>
                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2749>           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>                       <U+2738>                       <U+2738>                                            <U+273A>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>   <U+25CF>   <U+273A>   <U+2738>   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>           <U+2738>       <U+2738>   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>                                                                    <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2749>           <U+2715>                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                   <U+2716>       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                  <U+272C>                   <U+272D>                   <U+272E>               <U+272F>                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
              <U+2732>   <U+2733>       <U+2734>               <U+2732>               <U+2735>                           <U+2735>       <U+2736>                           <U+2733>
                                                                      <U+272C>
                      <U+2732>                                                       <U+273A>                                               <U+2733>
                              <U+272E>               <U+273D>                   <U+273E>                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>       <U+274A>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>       <U+2716>               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>   <U+2734>               <U+2733>               <U+2734>                           <U+2732>                   <U+2735>                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272C>                                                                               <U+272C>                           <U+272D>   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272F>           <U+272D>                                           <U+272C>                                   <U+272F>           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>               <U+2702>   <U+2704>    <U+270F>   <U+2702>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14/41
<removed-date>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2735>   <U+2732>                   <U+2738>                   <U+2739>                   <U+273A>                   <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>           <U+2712>               <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2711>           <U+2749>           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2714>       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>                           <U+272D>                               <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2714>       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>                       <U+272D>                               <U+272F>                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>       <U+2749>   <U+2714>       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>                       <U+272D>                               <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>       <U+2749>       <U+2716>
                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2749>           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>                           <U+2738>                       <U+2738>                                                    <U+273A>       <U+2738>       <U+2738>   <U+25CF>   <U+273A>   <U+2738>   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>           <U+2738>       <U+2738>   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                        <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>               <U+2749>               <U+2715>                       <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>                       <U+2716>       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                  <U+272C>                   <U+272D>                   <U+272E>               <U+272F>                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2717>
              <U+2732>   <U+2733>       <U+2734>               <U+2732>               <U+2735>                           <U+2735>       <U+2736>                           <U+2733>
                                                                      <U+272C>
                      <U+2732>                                                       <U+273A>                                               <U+2733>
                              <U+272E>               <U+273D>                   <U+273E>                                   <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>       <U+274A>
                                                                                                          <U+2711>       <U+2716>               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2735>   <U+2734>               <U+2733>               <U+2734>                           <U+2732>                   <U+2735>                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272C>                                                                                   <U+272C>                               <U+272D>   <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2734>                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272F>               <U+272D>                                           <U+272C>                                   <U+272F>               <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273F>                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>               <U+2702>       <U+2704>    <U+270F>   ¦

                      15/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+25B2>
                                  <U+274F>
                                  <U+271F>       <U+2720>
                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+271D>
              <U+2751>
              <U+274F>
              <U+271F>   <U+2720>
              <U+271E>
              <U+271D>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+274F>
                              <U+271F>       <U+2720>
                              <U+271E>
                              <U+271D>

                                                                                         16/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2746>           <U+2744>           <U+2746>
                                 <U+2744>
                             <U+273F>       <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2737>                   <U+2773>       P       <U+2768>           <U+2773>       P           P
                     <U+2744>   <U+2744>
             <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+25BC>                       <U+2741>
                                                                     <U+25C6>       <U+2756>       P   <U+25D7>           |               <U+25C6>       <U+25D7>           |           <U+2759>       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+25C6>           <U+2756>       P               <U+25D7>       |           <U+25C6>           <U+25D7>           |           <U+2759>           P
                                             <U+2746>       <U+2744>
                                                             <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                             <U+272E>               <U+275A>       <U+276F>       <U+2756>           <U+2771>       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>   <U+25D7>   <U+276F>       |       <U+276F>           <U+2756>       <U+2771>       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                             <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                             |       <U+2773>   <U+2768>           <U+2756>           <U+2769>   <U+2773>       <U+25D7>   |
     <U+2746>   <U+2744>
                 <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |   <U+2773>   <U+2768>       <U+2756>       <U+2769>   <U+2773>       <U+25D7>       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2744>       <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+25BC>
                                                                 <U+2743>       <U+276C>
                                                                                 |           <U+2771>   <U+2759>           <U+2756>           <U+2772>           <U+2768>                   P       <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2743>   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+25C6>           <U+2756>       P           <U+25D7>           |       <U+25C6>               <U+25D7>           |           <U+2759>           P
                                                 <U+2744>       <U+2746>
                                         <U+25BC>
                                                                                                         <U+2701>       <U+2702>               <U+2704>               <U+276A>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           17/41
            <U+275C>
<U+276B>   <U+2774>   <U+2775>
        <U+275B>

                                              18/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    <U+273F>
                  <U+2744>   <U+2744>
                          <U+25C6>   <U+2756>   P   <U+25D7>   |       <U+25C6>       <U+25D7>       |   <U+2759>       P
                                                                                  <U+275D>   <U+2744>
                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                              <U+2701>       <U+2702>       <U+2704>           <U+275E>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               19/41
<U+276B>   <U+2774>   <U+2775>   <U+2761>   <U+2762>
        <U+275B>

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            20/41
<U+2763><U+2764>   <U+2710>   <U+2766>
             <U+2766>
     <U+2765>

                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+276B>       <U+2774>       <U+2775>       <U+2761>       <U+2767>       <U+2665>
                <U+275B>
                                                                           21/41
                    <U+2775>       <U+2761>       <U+2767>       <U+2660>
    <U+276B>       <U+2774>
                    <U+275B>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               22/41
<U+2763>
<U+2764>   <U+2710>
        <U+2766>   <U+2666>   <U+2663>
    <U+2765>

                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                <U+2709>       <U+2708>       <U+2707>
q   r   s
        t
                                                                           23/41
                                    <U+2709>   <U+2708>   <U+2460>
            q       r       s
                            t

                                                                                                                                                                                  24/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>       <U+2746>
                  <U+2744>   <U+2744>
              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>       <U+2773>       P           <U+2768>                       <U+2773>           P       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>           <U+2759>           <U+275A>           <U+2461>       <U+2462>
                              <U+25C6>           <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>               |           <U+25C6>           <U+25D7>               |           <U+2759>               P
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                          <U+2730>           <U+2773>               <U+25C6>       <U+2756>           <U+2463>       <U+2464>           <U+2465>               <U+2756>       <U+2771>               <U+2759>           <U+2462>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                          <U+2463>       <U+25D7>           <U+2768>                   <U+2773>   |       <U+276D>                       <U+2769>       <U+25D7>                   <U+2461>                   |       <U+2463>   <U+2466>   <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>           <U+275A>           <U+2759>           |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>               <U+25D7>                           |           <U+25D7>                   <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>           <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>       <U+2773>           P           <U+2769>                   <U+2771>           <U+2468>
                                                                                          <U+2469>               <U+2776>               <U+2777>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>           <U+2744>   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>               <U+2743>           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>           <U+260E>               <U+270D>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               25/41
<U+2778>   <U+2779>   <U+277A>
            <U+277C>   <U+277D>
        <U+277B>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               26/41
<U+2778>   <U+2779>   <U+277A>
            <U+277C>   <U+277E>
        <U+277B>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               27/41
<U+2778>   <U+2779>   <U+277A>
            <U+277C>   <U+277F>
        <U+277B>

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         28/41
<U+2780><U+2781>   <U+2782>
         <U+2784><U+2785>
     <U+2783>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               29/41
            <U+2709>   <U+2786>
q   r   s
        t

                    <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                             To: Jack Brown
                                                  30/41
<U+271D>   <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2787>   <U+2788>
        <U+2720>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>        <U+273F>
                          <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>   <U+2743>   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                   <U+2741>
                                                                  <U+2746>   <U+2744>   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>       <U+2743>       <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>           <U+2743>           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>           <U+2756>           P           <U+25D7>           |                   <U+25C6>   <U+25D7>               |       <U+2759>           P
                                                                                                      <U+25C6>       <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>       |                       <U+25C6>   <U+25D7>           |   <U+2759>       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>               <U+2773>           <U+25C6>       <U+2756>           <U+2463>           <U+2464>           <U+2465>           <U+2756>           <U+2771>       <U+2759>                   <U+2462>           <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
              <U+25C6>       <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>   |   <U+25C6>   <U+25D7>   |   <U+2759>   P
                                                                                          <U+2730>       <U+2773>       <U+25C6>       <U+2756>       <U+2463>       <U+2464>           <U+2465>           <U+2756>           <U+2771>   <U+2759>           <U+2462>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>                                       <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>   <U+2759>           <U+2759>                           <U+25D7>           <U+2771>           <U+2461>                       |           <U+2463>       <U+2466>           <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2789>       <U+2789>   <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>               <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>       <U+2744>               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>       <U+2744>           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>               <U+2741>
                                                                                  <U+2743>   <U+2744>
                                                                              <U+2740>               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>       <U+2702>           <U+2704>       <U+261E>       <U+260E>

                                                                                      32/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    <U+273F>
                  <U+2744>   <U+2744>
                                                                  <U+2746>   <U+2744>   <U+2746>
                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                  <U+273C>           <U+2769>   <U+2759>
                          <U+25C6>   <U+2756>   P   <U+25D7>   |   <U+25C6>   <U+25D7>   |   <U+2759>   P
                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                          <U+2740>           <U+2740>       <U+2741>
                                                                              <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+261E>   <U+261E>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      33/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                           <U+2768>                                                               <U+2773>                   P                       P                       <U+2759>                       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |               <U+25D7>                               <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                                           <U+2773>                           <U+2463>                           <U+2756>                           <U+2769>                       <U+2773>               <U+25D7>                   |                               P                   <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                      <U+25CF>
                              <U+2768>                       <U+2759>           P               P                   <U+2756>               <U+276D>                   <U+2759>               P                               <U+2771>           <U+25D7>           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>               <U+2756>                           <U+2773>                   <U+2461>                       <U+2465>                                   <U+2768>                                                                   <U+2759>                       P                   P                   <U+2756>                           <U+276D>                   <U+2759>                   <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>                       <U+2466>               <U+2771>   <U+2773>               P                           <U+2756>               |                   <U+2772>               <U+25C6>       <U+2756>       P           <U+25D7>       |
                                      <U+25C6>           <U+2756>           P           <U+25D7>                       |                       <U+25C6>                   <U+25D7>                   |           <U+2759>               P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2463>                               <U+2756>                               <U+2461>                           <U+2759>                       |                                       <U+2772>                           <U+2756>                           <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>                           <U+2759>               P               P           <U+2756>                   <U+276D>                   <U+2759>               <U+2772>       <U+2462>               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273C>                                                       <U+2759>                                   <U+2759>                                       <U+2769>           <U+2773>                               |                       <U+276D>                                                                           <U+2740>                   <U+275A>                       <U+2768>
                                                                              <U+25C6>               <U+2756>               P               <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+25C6>           <U+25D7>                   |           <U+2759>       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>                           <U+2759>                                       |                               |                               <U+2773>                                               <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                                   <U+2737>                           <U+25D7>                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>           <U+2466>       <U+2771>               <U+2773>       P                   <U+2742>                           <U+2461>               <U+2756>               <U+2463>               <U+2464>               <U+2768>           P           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
              <U+25C6>   <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>           |                       <U+25C6>               <U+25D7>                   |                       <U+2759>               P                   <U+2768>                           P           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>   <U+2756>       P           <U+25D7>               |                           <U+25C6>               <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+2759>           P           <U+2768>           P           <U+276D>
              <U+25C6>   <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>           |                       <U+25C6>               <U+25D7>                   |                       <U+2759>               P                   <U+2768>                           P           <U+276D>           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>                               <U+2756>                                   P                       <U+25D7>                                       |                                                   <U+25C6>                       <U+25D7>                               |                   <U+2759>                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
              <U+25C6>   <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>           |                       <U+25C6>               <U+25D7>                   |                       <U+2759>               P                   <U+2768>                           P           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>                                               <U+2466>                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2773>               P                                                   <U+2742>                               <U+2461>               <U+2756>                       <U+2463>                   <U+2464>
                                          <U+2701>               <U+2702>                               <U+2704>                       <U+261E>                   <U+270C>                       <U+2706>                                                                                                   <U+2701>               <U+2702>                               <U+2704>                   <U+261E>                           <U+270C>                   <U+270E>                                                           <U+2701>                       <U+2702>                                                           <U+2704>                                           <U+261E>                                               <U+270C>                                           <U+2747>

                                                                          34/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2744>       <U+2744>
                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>   <U+2741>       <U+2740>
                  <U+2744>
              <U+273F>       <U+2741>
                                                                          <U+25C6>   <U+2756>       P   <U+25D7>               |           <U+25C6>           <U+25D7>       |           <U+2759>           P
                                                                          <U+2730>       <U+2773>           <U+25C6>       <U+2756>           <U+2463>       <U+2464>           <U+2465>           <U+2756>       <U+2771>       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>               <U+2756>       P       <U+25D7>                   |           <U+25C6>       <U+25D7>                   |           <U+2759>                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730>                   <U+2773>               <U+25C6>       <U+2756>       <U+2463>           <U+2464>           <U+2465>               <U+2756>               <U+2771>       <U+2759>                   <U+2462>       <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2463>           <U+25D7>           <U+2768>                   <U+2773>       |           <U+276D>               <U+2769>           <U+25D7>                       <U+2461>                   |       <U+2463>       <U+2466>   <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2469>               <U+2776>                   <U+2777>
                                          <U+2744>   <U+2746>
                                                                  <U+2744>   <U+2746>
                                  <U+25BC>
                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2469>   <U+2776>               <U+278C>
                                                      <U+2744>
                                                  <U+25BC>       <U+2740>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>           <U+2702>               <U+2704>               <U+261E>               <U+270D>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              35/41
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                   <U+273F>                                                                                                               <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>                                   <U+2759>                   <U+2463>                               <U+2759>                       <U+2773>           <U+278D>                       <U+2759>                                                       <U+2756>                                       <U+2461>                   <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                       <U+2769>                                               <U+2463>                                               <U+25D7>                                                       <U+2768>                                                                                           <U+275A>                                               <U+2771>                                               <U+2773>                                   P                               <U+2773>                       |                                                   <U+276D>                                                               <U+2773>                           |                                                           <U+25D7>                                           <U+2771>           <U+2768>                                           <U+2756>                       <U+2769>       <U+2773>                       <U+25D7>                           |
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                   <U+273F>                                                                                                               <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>                                                                                           <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                       P                                                               <U+2759>                                                               <U+275A>                                               <U+2759>                                                   <U+2771>                           <U+2463>                                                   <U+2759>                                                   <U+275A>                                               <U+2769>                                                                                               <U+2756>                                       <U+2461>                                                       <U+25D7>                                                                                           <U+2769>                   <U+275A>                                                                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>                                               <U+2759>                                   <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                                               <U+2463>                                                   <U+2769>                                                           <U+2756>                                                                                                                               P                                                   <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                                                   <U+2773>                               |                                           <U+275A>                                                                                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                   <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
              <U+2737>       <U+2759>   <U+2769>       <U+2759>           <U+2771>           <U+2768>                                   <U+2773>               |                       <U+2759>                                   <U+276F>                               <U+2466>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2769>           <U+2466>                       <U+2759>                           <U+2771>                                           P                       <U+2759>                       <U+2771>                               <U+2773>               |                               <U+275A>                                                           <U+2769>                               <U+276F>                                                           <U+2756>                                   P                                                   <U+2772>                                                   <U+2759>                                               <U+2769>                                       <U+2759>                                           <U+2463>                                               <U+2769>                           <U+2759>                                                               <U+2772>                                                                   <U+276F>                                                                   <U+2773>                       <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                                   <U+2773>               |                                                   <U+2756>                                       <U+275A>                           <U+2771>                   <U+2759>                       <U+2772>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2769>                   <U+2759>           <U+2771>               <U+2768>                               <U+2773>               |                               <U+2759>                           <U+2772>                                       <U+2769>       <U+2773>               <U+2768>                               <U+2759>                                           <U+2773>               |                       <U+2769>           <U+2759>       <U+2771>       <U+278D>       <U+2756>   <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>                                                                                                           <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>                                                       <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2771>                                                   <U+275A>                                           <U+2759>                                               <U+2771>                                       <U+2463>                                               <U+2759>                                               <U+275A>                                                   <U+2769>                                                                                               <U+2756>                                       <U+2461>                                                   <U+25D7>                                                                                           <U+2769>                           <U+275A>                                                               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>                                                   <U+273F>
                                                  <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>
                                                              |                                   <U+2756>                           <U+2463>                   <U+2463>               <U+25D7>                   <U+2771>                       <U+2772>                       <U+2756>                       |                   <U+2463>                       <U+2759>                               <U+276F>                               <U+2773>               <U+2769>               <U+2466>                                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2772>                           <U+2759>                               <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                           <U+2768>                                                       <U+2773>                       |                                       <U+2756>                                               <U+2769>                                   <U+2773>                               <U+25D7>                                                       |                                                                           <U+2769>                                       <U+2466>                                                       <U+2756>                                       <U+2769>                                                                                               P                               <U+2759>                                           <U+2771>                                       <U+2773>           |                                   <U+275A>                                                       <U+2769>                           <U+276F>                                           <U+2756>                       P                           <U+2771>                   <U+2759>           <U+2463>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2773>                   <U+278D>                           <U+2759>               <U+2772>                                       <U+276F>                           <U+2773>                   <U+2769>           <U+2466>                               <U+2773>           |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>
                  <U+275A>           <U+2771>       <U+2759>           <U+2772>                       <U+2759>               <U+2769>               <U+2759>                       <U+2771>                   <U+2768>                       <U+2773>           |                           <U+2759>                           <U+2772>                                   <U+2769>               <U+2773>           <U+2768>                                   <U+2759>                               <U+2773>               |                           <U+2769>           <U+2759>                               <U+2771>               <U+278D>                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                       <U+2465>                               <U+2772>                                       <U+2773>               P                                   <U+275A>                                       <U+2461>                           <U+2756>                                                   <U+2462>                                                                           |                                                               <U+25D7>                                                   <U+2769>                                           <U+2773>                                                       <U+2773>                       <U+2463>                                       <U+2756>                                       <U+2769>                           <U+2773>                       <U+25D7>                                           |                                               <U+2463>                           <U+25D7>                           <U+2768>                                               <U+275A>                           <U+2771>               <U+2773>                   P                       <U+2773>           |               <U+276D>                               <U+2756>                                                                       <U+2773>           <U+2771>                   P               <U+2769>                   <U+275A>                       <U+25D7>                       <U+2771>               <U+2769>                       <U+2773>           <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                                       <U+2759>                                                                   <U+2773>                               |                                                                                           <U+25D7>                                                           <U+2771>                           <U+2768>                                                                                               <U+2756>                                       <U+2769>                   <U+2773>                                   <U+25D7>                                           |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>
                                          <U+272D>                       <U+275A>               <U+2769>                   <U+2773>                   <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+2756>               <U+2461>               <U+2461>           <U+2462>                           <U+2465>                           <U+2772>                       <U+2759>                           <U+2769>       <U+2759>                       <U+2771>       <U+2768>                                           <U+2773>           |                               <U+2759>                                           <U+276F>                               <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                               <U+2759>                                   <U+2771>                                                                                                           P                                           <U+2759>                                               <U+2771>                                                               <U+2773>                           |                                                                   <U+275A>                                                                                       <U+2769>                                               <U+2463>                                           <U+25D7>                                                   |                               <U+2769>               <U+2773>                       |                                                   <U+2759>                           P                                   <U+2769>           <U+25D7>                                               <U+2468>                   <U+2759>                               <U+2772>                       <U+2759>                   <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2463>                   <U+2769>           <U+2759>               <U+2772>                               <U+2756>                                               <U+2769>               <U+2759>                   <U+2771>                       <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                      P               <U+2759>       <U+2463>                                   <U+25D7>                           |               <U+2772>                               <U+275A>                           <U+2771>               <U+2759>                       <U+2772>                       <U+2759>                           <U+2769>           <U+2759>               <U+2771>               <U+2768>                                           <U+2773>           |                               <U+2759>                       <U+2772>                                       <U+2769>           <U+2773>                               <U+2768>                                                           <U+2759>                                           <U+2773>                       |                                       <U+2769>                               <U+2759>                                           <U+2771>                                       <U+278D>                                                   <U+2756>                                                   <U+2461>                                                       <U+2756>                                                                                           <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                                                       <U+2772>                                           <U+2773>                               P                               <U+275A>                       <U+2461>                           <U+2756>                       <U+2462>                       <U+2773>               |                       <U+276D>                                               <U+2769>               <U+2466>                           <U+2759>                           |                   <U+25D7>                           <U+2769>           <U+2773>                                       <U+2773>                       <U+2463>               <U+2756>               <U+2769>               <U+2773>           <U+25D7>                       |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                                                                      <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                      P                   <U+2759>               <U+2771>                       <U+2773>               |                           <U+275A>                                               <U+2769>                               <U+2463>                   <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+2769>                   <U+2773>           |                                                   <U+2759>                       P                                       <U+2769>                   <U+25D7>                                                       <U+2468>                                       <U+2759>                                                   <U+2772>                                       <U+2759>                                           <U+2769>                               <U+2759>                                                       <U+2463>                                           <U+2769>                               <U+2759>                                           <U+2772>                                                                       <U+2465>                                           <U+2772>                                           <U+2773>                       P                                   <U+275A>                                               <U+2461>                                   <U+2756>                               <U+2462>                                                   <U+2756>                                   P                   <U+2759>                           <U+2463>                       <U+25D7>                           |                           <U+2772>                                   <U+275A>                   <U+25D7>                       <U+2771>                   <U+2769>           <U+2773>                       <U+25D7>                           |                               <U+25D7>                                               <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                               <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>                       |                                                                                           <U+25D7>                                                       <U+2771>                                       <U+2768>                                                                                       <U+2756>                                                       <U+2769>                   <U+2773>                       <U+25D7>                                               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278E>                                                                                               <U+278F>                                                   <U+2790>                                                                                       <U+2791>                                                               <U+2792>                                                       <U+2793>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36/41
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>                                                           <U+2759>                                       <U+2463>                           <U+2759>                                                       <U+2773>                           <U+278D>                                                   <U+2759>                                                                       <U+2756>                                                                   <U+275A>                                                                   <U+2461>                                                                                               <U+2771>                                           <U+2756>                                                                       <U+2461>                           <U+2773>                               <U+2769>                               <U+2462>                                                                                       <U+25D7>                                                                                               <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                                   <U+2769>                           P
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>                                               <U+2759>                           <U+2769>                   <U+2759>                                               <U+2771>                           <U+2768>                                               <U+2773>                       |                                   <U+2759>                                                       <U+276F>                                                       <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                       <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                           <U+2771>                                                   <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                                           <U+275A>                                                           <U+2461>                                                                           <U+2771>                                   <U+2756>                                               <U+2461>                   <U+2773>                           <U+2769>                                           <U+2462>                                                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2756>                                                   <U+2461>                       <U+2759>                                                   <U+2771>                                       <U+2769>                   P                                                           <U+2768>                                                           <U+2759>                                           <U+2759>                                               <U+2769>                       P                                                       <U+2756>                                                   <U+276D>                                           <U+2771>                               <U+25D7>                                                                                       <U+275A>                                       <U+2773>                       |                                       <U+276D>                                                           <U+2463>                                   <U+2771>                   <U+2773>                           <U+2769>           <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                                   <U+2773>           <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>                                                           <U+2744>                                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>                                                                       <U+2759>                                                   <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                                           <U+2463>                                           <U+2769>                                                                               <U+2756>                                                                                                                                                       P                                                               <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                                                                       <U+2773>                           |                                                   <U+275A>                                                                                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>                                                       <U+2744>                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>
                                                                          <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                  |                                           <U+2756>                               <U+2463>                               <U+2463>                               <U+25D7>                                           <U+2771>                           <U+2772>                                           <U+2756>                       |                                       <U+2463>                                   <U+2759>                                                       <U+276F>                                               <U+2773>                           <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                                               <U+2756>                                                                                           <U+2772>                                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2769>                               <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                                   <U+2768>                                                                                   <U+2773>                           |                                                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2769>                               <U+2773>                                   <U+25D7>                                                                       |                                                                                       <U+2769>                                           <U+2466>                                                                       <U+2756>                                           <U+2769>                                                           <U+2769>                               <U+2466>                                               <U+2759>                                                               <U+275A>                                   <U+2461>                                                                       <U+2771>                                   <U+2756>                                       <U+2461>                       <U+2773>               <U+2769>                       <U+2462>                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                               <U+2756>                                       <U+2461>               <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2769>                           P                                                   <U+2768>                                           <U+2759>                                       <U+2759>                               <U+2769>                       P                                       <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                       <U+2759>
                                                                  <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276C>
                  <U+276D>               <U+2771>           <U+25D7>                                                       <U+275A>                           <U+2773>                           |                       <U+276D>                                                           <U+2463>                               <U+2771>                               <U+2773>                       <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2771>                       <U+2773>                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2465>                                       <U+2756>                                   |                                   <U+2772>                                                           <U+2773>                               |                                                               <U+2771>                                       <U+2759>                                   P                               <U+275A>                                               <U+25D7>                                       |                                                           P                                   <U+2759>                                                                           <U+2769>                       <U+25D7>                                                                               <U+2772>                                                                   <U+2759>                                                           <U+2769>                                       <U+2759>                                                               <U+2463>                                               <U+2769>                               <U+2773>                               |                                                       <U+276D>                                                                               <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                       <U+2759>                                                                                                       P                                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                                           <U+2773>                   |                                           <U+275A>                                                                                           <U+2769>                       <U+2465>                                           <U+2772>                                       <U+2773>                   P                               <U+275A>                                   <U+2461>                           <U+2756>                           <U+2462>                                                           <U+2756>                                                       <U+276D>                           <U+2771>                       <U+25D7>                                                               <U+275A>           <U+2759>           <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                   <U+25D7>                                       <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                                                   <U+2773>                       <U+2463>                                           <U+2756>                                       <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                   <U+25D7>                                                       |                                                                   <U+2771>                       <U+2759>                                           <U+275A>                                                   <U+2771>                               <U+2759>                                               P                                           <U+2759>                                   |                                                           <U+2769>                                               <U+2773>                               |                                                       <U+276D>                                                                                                                   <U+2769>                                   <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                                                               <U+275A>                                               <U+2461>                                                                           <U+2771>                   <U+2756>                                           <U+2461>                   <U+2773>                               <U+2769>                           <U+2462>                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                               <U+2756>                                           <U+2461>                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2771>                               <U+2769>                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>                                                                       <U+2743>                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                      <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                              |                           <U+2756>                       <U+2463>                       <U+2463>                               <U+25D7>                           <U+2771>                           <U+2772>                                   <U+2756>                                   |                                               <U+2463>                                   <U+2759>                                       <U+276F>                                                           <U+2773>                       <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                                                       <U+2756>                                                               <U+2772>                                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2769>                           <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                               <U+2768>                                                                       <U+2773>                       |                                       <U+2756>                                                   <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                                   <U+25D7>                                                   |                                                                   <U+2769>                               <U+2466>                                                                       <U+2756>                                                       <U+2769>                                                                   <U+2769>                                                       <U+2466>                                                           <U+2759>                                                                   <U+275A>                                                           <U+2461>                                                                       <U+2771>                               <U+2756>                               <U+2461>                       <U+2773>                           <U+2769>                   <U+2462>                                                                       <U+25D7>                                                                                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                               <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2769>                       P                                               <U+2772>                                       <U+25D7>                                               <U+2759>                       P                                                           |                                   <U+25D7>                                   <U+2769>                                   <U+2768>                                                           <U+2759>                           <U+2759>                       <U+2769>                       <U+2769>       <U+2466>           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278A>
                                                              <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276C>
              <U+276D>           <U+2771>           <U+25D7>                                                   <U+275A>                           <U+2773>                   |                           <U+276D>                                                       <U+2463>                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2773>                           <U+2769>               <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                   <U+2773>                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2465>                                   <U+2772>                                       <U+2773>                       P                               <U+275A>                                           <U+2461>               <U+2756>                                           <U+2462>                                                                       <U+2756>                                                               <U+275A>                                               <U+2461>                                                                   <U+2771>                               <U+2756>                                               <U+2461>                               <U+2773>                               <U+2769>                       <U+2462>                                                                           <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                           |                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                   <U+2769>                               <U+2773>                                                               <U+2773>                       <U+2463>                                                       <U+2756>                                           <U+2769>                           <U+2773>               <U+25D7>                                           |                                           P                                                               <U+2771>                           <U+2759>                                   <U+275A>                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2759>                                   P                                       <U+2759>                                   |                                           <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                       |                                   <U+276D>                                                               <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                   <U+2759>                                               <U+275A>                                   <U+2461>                                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2756>                           <U+2461>               <U+2773>                   <U+2769>           <U+2462>               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>                                                               <U+2461>                                           <U+2759>                                               <U+2771>                                               <U+2769>                                                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276C>
                                          <U+272D>                                   <U+275A>                               <U+2769>               <U+2773>                           <U+25D7>                       |                                   <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                       <U+2461>                           <U+2462>                                           <U+2465>                           <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                   <U+2759>                                                       <U+276D>                                       <U+2771>                       <U+25D7>                                                                               <U+275A>                                           <U+2773>                           |                                                   <U+276D>                                                                   <U+2463>                                           <U+2771>                       <U+2773>                   <U+2769>                                   <U+2759>                                           <U+2771>                                       <U+2773>                           <U+2756>                                                               <U+2773>                           P                                                                                   <U+2468>                                                                       <U+2756>                                               P                                                       <U+2759>                                                           <U+2772>                                                                                   <U+25D7>                                                       |                                                                               <U+276F>                                                               <U+2466>                               <U+2759>                                       <U+2769>                               <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2771>                                                   <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                       <U+2759>                                                       <U+275A>                                               <U+2461>                                                                   <U+2771>                   <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                   <U+2773>                       <U+2769>                           <U+2462>                                                   <U+25D7>                                                                                   <U+2756>                       <U+2461>                   <U+2759>                           <U+2771>                       <U+2769>                   P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+276C>
                                                      <U+2756>               <U+2771>                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2759>                       <U+2463>                               <U+2759>                                   <U+2773>                       <U+278D>                                               <U+2759>                               <U+2772>                                                                               <U+2771>                           <U+25D7>                                       <U+2768>                                                                           <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                                               P                           <U+2756>                                               <U+2768>                                                                       <U+2759>                                                           P                                       <U+25D7>                                                                                                       <U+2771>                                       <U+2463>                                       <U+2759>                                           <U+2794>                                                                           <U+276F>                                                                                               <U+2466>                                                                           <U+2759>                                                   <U+2769>                               <U+2466>                                                       <U+2759>                                               <U+2771>                                                               <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                   <U+2759>                                                           <U+275A>                                           <U+2461>                                                                       <U+2771>                           <U+2756>                               <U+2461>                           <U+2773>           <U+2769>                                   <U+2462>                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                           <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                               <U+2769>                   P                                       <U+2759>                                   <U+2192>                                   <U+2463>                               <U+2759>                           <U+2759>                           <U+2772>                                       P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>
                                                                                                                  <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276C>
                                                  <U+2756>                                   |                                                           <U+2768>                                                       <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                       <U+2773>                           <U+2463>                                                       <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                               <U+2771>                           <U+2759>                                   P                       <U+2466>                                           <U+25D7>                                   <U+2461>                           <U+2772>                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                               <U+2756>                                               <U+2461>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                                   <U+2769>               P                                               <U+2794>                                               <U+276F>                                                                               <U+2466>                                                   <U+2759>                                           <U+2769>                                   <U+2466>                                                                       <U+2759>                                                   <U+2771>                                                                               <U+2769>                                               <U+2466>                                               <U+2759>                                                                               <U+275A>                                                           <U+2461>                                                                   <U+2771>                           <U+2756>                               <U+2461>                               <U+2773>                       <U+2769>                           <U+2462>                                                                   <U+25D7>                                                                                           <U+2756>                               <U+2461>                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2771>                       <U+2769>                               P                                                   <U+2756>                                   <U+2771>                   <U+2759>                                                               <U+2756>                               P                   P                           <U+25D7>                                           <U+2463>                               <U+2773>                   <U+2756>                               <U+2769>               <U+2759>                       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                                                                                          <U+276F>                                               <U+2773>                   <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                                                           <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                       <U+2759>                                           P                               <U+2756>                                   <U+2768>                                                               <U+2759>                                                   <U+2756>                                   <U+275A>                                       <U+275A>                                           <U+2461>                               <U+2773>                   <U+2463>                                           <U+2756>                                               <U+2769>                   <U+2773>                               <U+25D7>                               |                                                       <U+2794>                                                       <U+2756>                                               |                                               <U+2772>                                               <U+27A3>                                   <U+25D7>                                                                       <U+2771>                                                                   <U+276F>                                                                                                               <U+2466>                                                   <U+2759>                                                       <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                                           <U+2759>                                           <U+2771>                                               <U+2769>                   <U+2466>                                           <U+2759>                                                                   <U+275A>                                           <U+2461>                                                               <U+2771>                       <U+2756>                                       <U+2461>                           <U+2773>                       <U+2769>                   <U+2462>                                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                       <U+2756>                                   <U+2461>                   <U+2759>                                           <U+2771>                   <U+2769>                   P                                               <U+2756>                           <U+2771>                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2771>                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2463>                           <U+2759>                                   <U+2773>                               <U+278D>                                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2772>                                                                   <U+276F>                                                               <U+2773>                               <U+2769>                       <U+2466>                                           <U+2773>                               |                                                                           <U+2756>                                                                   <U+275A>                                               <U+2771>                                               <U+2759>                                                           <U+2772>                                                               <U+2759>                                                           <U+2769>                                                   <U+2759>                                                   <U+2771>                               <U+2768>                                                                                   <U+2773>                                   |                                           <U+2759>                                       <U+2772>                                                           <U+2769>                           <U+2773>                   <U+2768>                                                                           <U+2759>                                                   <U+275A>                                                   <U+2759>                               <U+2771>                               <U+2773>                       <U+25D7>                                       <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278E>                                                                                                   <U+278F>                                                                       <U+2790>                                                                                               <U+2791>                                                                                   <U+2792>                                                                           <U+2194>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          37/41
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                           <U+25BC>                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                          <U+2195>                               <U+2466>           <U+2773>               <U+2461>           <U+2759>                               <U+2772>                   <U+2773>               P                   <U+275A>                       <U+2461>           <U+2756>                   <U+2462>                       <U+2773>               |                       <U+276D>                                       <U+2463>                   <U+25D7>                       |                           <U+2769>           <U+2759>                   |                   <U+2769>               <U+2465>                       <U+2771>               <U+2759>                       <U+2463>                                   <U+2759>                               <U+2773>                       <U+278D>                                                   <U+2759>                                                       <U+2756>                       |                                               <U+2756>                               <U+2461>               <U+2759>                           <U+2771>                       <U+2769>               <U+2463>                       <U+25D7>                           <U+2768>                               <U+275A>                           <U+2771>           <U+2773>                       P               <U+2773>       |                   <U+276D>                                       <U+2773>           |                           <U+25D7>                           <U+2771>               <U+2768>                       <U+2756>                       <U+2769>           <U+2773>       <U+25D7>                   |
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                           <U+25BC>                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
              <U+2737>           <U+2773>   P               <U+275A>           <U+2461>               <U+2756>                   <U+2462>                   <U+2756>                           |                           <U+25D7>                   <U+2769>           <U+2773>                       <U+2773>                   <U+2463>               <U+2756>                   <U+2769>                   <U+2773>       <U+25D7>                           |                                       <U+2468>               <U+2756>                   |                           |                       <U+2759>                       <U+2771>                           <U+2756>                   <U+2463>                   <U+2771>                       <U+25D7>               P                               P                                       <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                               <U+2759>                                                       <U+2772>                               <U+2773>                       P                       <U+275A>                               <U+2461>               <U+2756>                       <U+2462>                                   <U+2465>                   <U+276F>                               <U+2466>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2771>               <U+2759>                                   <U+2769>           <U+2466>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2468>                   <U+2756>                       |               |                   <U+2759>                       <U+2771>                   <U+2463>                   <U+25D7>                   <U+2768>                           <U+275A>                       <U+2771>       <U+2773>           P       <U+2759>   P           <U+2756>
                                                                                                                              <U+278A>                                                                                                                                   <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276C>
                  <U+275A>   <U+25D7>           <U+2771>       <U+2769>           <U+2773>       <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+25D7>                                               <U+2769>           <U+2466>                   <U+2759>                                   <U+2773>               |                               <U+25D7>                           <U+2771>               <U+2768>                                       <U+2756>                   <U+2769>               <U+2773>       <U+25D7>                       |                       <U+2465>                       <U+2756>                           |                       <U+2772>                               <U+2756>                       <U+2769>                       <U+2461>                   <U+2759>                               <U+2756>                                   P                           <U+2769>                                                       <U+2756>                                                   <U+275A>                                   <U+25D7>                           <U+2771>               <U+2769>                   <U+2773>                       <U+25D7>                       |                                       <U+25D7>                                               <U+2769>           <U+2466>                       <U+2759>                                   <U+2463>                       <U+25D7>                           |               <U+2769>           <U+2759>                       |                   <U+2769>                   <U+2463>                   <U+25D7>                       |               <U+2769>           <U+2773>           |                                   <U+2759>                   P                       <U+2769>       <U+25D7>           <U+2468>   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>                                   <U+2773>               P                                       <U+275A>                                               <U+2461>                           <U+2756>                           <U+2462>                                   <U+2759>                               <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>                               <U+2759>                       <U+2769>           <U+2759>                       <U+2463>                   <U+2769>                           <U+2756>                           <U+2463>                       <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+2769>               <U+2756>                       <U+2463>                       <U+2769>                               <U+25D7>                               |                                                                   <U+2769>                           <U+2466>                                   <U+2759>                                                       |                               <U+25D7>                       <U+2769>                   <U+2773>                                           <U+2773>           <U+2463>                   <U+2756>                       <U+2769>           <U+2773>               <U+25D7>                   |                                       <U+2468>                   <U+2756>                       |                           |               <U+2759>                       <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278A>
                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                              |                       <U+2771>               <U+2759>           P               <U+275A>                               <U+25D7>                   |                   P                       <U+2759>                       <U+2769>           <U+25D7>                                           <U+2772>                   <U+2759>                       <U+2769>               <U+2759>                   <U+2463>               <U+2769>                   <U+2773>           |                       <U+276D>                               <U+2756>                                   <U+2463>                   <U+25D7>                       |                               <U+2769>                   <U+2756>                           <U+2463>                                               <U+2769>                       <U+2465>                                               <U+2772>                                   <U+2773>       P                                   <U+275A>                               <U+2461>               <U+2756>                       <U+2462>                               <U+2773>                   |               <U+276D>                                       <U+2756>                                   P           <U+2759>                           <U+2463>                       <U+25D7>                       |                   <U+2772>                                   <U+275A>                       <U+25D7>               <U+2771>           <U+2769>       <U+2773>                   <U+25D7>                   |                               <U+25D7>                                   <U+2769>               <U+2466>                   <U+2759>
                                                                      <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>                       <U+278A>                                                                                                                       <U+278A>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>
                                      <U+2773>           |                               <U+25D7>               <U+2771>           <U+2768>                           <U+2756>                   <U+2769>               <U+2773>       <U+25D7>                       |                           <U+2465>                   <U+276F>                                   <U+2466>                           <U+2759>               <U+2771>                       <U+2759>                               <U+2769>       <U+2466>                           <U+2759>                               P                   <U+2759>                       <U+2463>                       <U+25D7>               |                       <U+2772>                                       <U+275A>                                   <U+25D7>                               <U+2771>                                   <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                           <U+25D7>                               |                                                           <U+2773>               P                                       <U+2772>                                   <U+2773>                                               <U+2759>                       <U+2771>           <U+2759>                           |                   <U+2769>                                       <U+2771>                   <U+25D7>                       <U+2768>                                           <U+2769>           <U+2466>                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2773>           <U+2771>               P                   <U+2769>               <U+275A>                       <U+25D7>                   <U+2771>       <U+2769>               <U+2773>       <U+25D7>               |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278E>                                                           <U+278F>                                               <U+2790>                                                       <U+2791>                                                   <U+2792>                                           <U+2799>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                38/41
<removed-date>
              2800
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2802                                                                                                                       2808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+27BB>   <U+27B8>   <U+27A8>       <U+27AB>   <U+27B3>               <U+279E>       <U+279E>               <U+279D>           <U+27A5>               <U+27BC>                   <U+27A4>                   <U+27A5>                   <U+279D>       <U+27A6>
                                     <U+279C>           <U+279D>       <U+279E>               <U+279F>                   <U+27A0>       <U+27A1>           <U+27A2>                       <U+27A4>               <U+27A5>                   <U+279D>               <U+27A6>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2810
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+279C>           <U+279D>   <U+279E>           <U+279F>               <U+27A0>       <U+27A1>               <U+27A2>                       <U+27BD>               <U+27A5>                   <U+27A1>                       <U+27BE>           <U+27A0>   <U+279D>   <U+27A5>           <U+27BC>               <U+27A4>               <U+27A5>   <U+279D>   <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2804
                     <U+27A7>   <U+27A8>               <U+27A9>           <U+27AB>               <U+27AD>                   <U+27AF>       <U+27B2>                       <U+27B3>       <U+27A5>               <U+279E>               <U+279D>   <U+27A6>               <U+279D>               <U+27B5>   <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2812
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+27AA>                       <U+27B3>           <U+27AB>           <U+27B3>               <U+279D>   <U+27B5>                   <U+279D>       <U+27A5>                       <U+27BC>                   <U+27A4>           <U+27A5>       <U+279D>       <U+27A6>
                             <U+27B2>               <U+27A9>               <U+27B8>               <U+27BA>   <U+27A1>                       <U+27AB>           <U+27B3>                       <U+27A4>               <U+27A5>                   <U+279D>               <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2814
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2806                                                           <U+279C>                   <U+27B3>               <U+27A6>       <U+27B3>               <U+27B8>       <U+279A>                       <U+279D>       <U+27A5>                   <U+279D>       <U+27A5>           <U+27BC>                   <U+27A4>           <U+27A5>               <U+279D>   <U+27A6>
                                 <U+27B2>               <U+27B3>               <U+27A5>                   <U+279E>                       <U+27A8>               <U+27B8>       <U+27A4>               <U+27A5>                   <U+279D>               <U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2792>   <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+278E>   <U+278F>   <U+2790>   <U+2791>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              39/41
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>                       <U+25D7>                                   <U+2463>                                   <U+2759>                                                   P                                                               P                                               <U+2773>                                       |                                                                       <U+276D>                                                                                                   <U+272E>                                               |                                           <U+2773>                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>                                                           <U+2744>                                                                       <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                      <U+2737>                           <U+2773>                   P                           <U+275A>                                               <U+2461>                           <U+2756>                                           <U+2462>                                                   <U+272E>                                   |                           <U+2773>                       <U+2769>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                                                                   <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>                                       <U+2759>                                       <U+2463>                                   <U+2759>                                                   <U+2773>                                               <U+278D>                                                                   <U+2773>                                       |                                                                       <U+276D>                                                                                               <U+272E>                                               |                                           <U+2773>                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                                       <U+2743>                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>                                                   <U+2771>                                                   <U+2463>                                                           <U+2759>                                                                       <U+275A>                                                                       <U+2769>                                                                                       <U+2756>                       <U+2461>
                                                              <U+276C>                                                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                          <U+272C>           <U+25D7>                                               <U+2463>                           <U+2466>                                                       <U+2731>                                                                           <U+2759>                       |                                       P               <U+2773>               <U+2769>                   <U+2773>               <U+278D>                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>                                                                                                                   <U+276C>                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272D>                                                                       <U+2769>                               <U+275A>                                                                                                       <U+2769>                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                               <U+2756>                                           <U+2468>                           <U+2461>                           <U+2773>               |                                               <U+276D>
                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                              <U+2732>                       <U+276C>
                                                                                              <U+2771>                                                       <U+2756>                                               <U+2463>                           <U+2759>                                                               <U+272E>                               |                                   <U+2773>               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                                               |                                                                       <U+2773>                                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>                                               <U+2759>                                           <U+2769>                   <U+2759>                                                   <U+2463>                                                                   <U+2769>                                       <U+2773>                                       |                                                                   <U+276D>                                                                                                   <U+272E>                                               |                                           <U+2773>                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2741>
              <U+2730>               <U+2756>                   <U+275A>                   <U+2769>           <U+2773>                   <U+2463>                                                           <U+273C>                                                                               <U+2759>                       <U+2463>                                       <U+2466>                       <U+2756>                           |                                   <U+2773>       P               <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>                                                       |                                       <U+2773>                               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                                                                   <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>                                   <U+2759>                               <U+2769>                       <U+2759>                                   <U+2771>                                   <U+2768>                                                                                                               <U+2773>                                           |                                                                       <U+2773>                                           |                                                       <U+276D>                                                   <U+272E>                                                               |                                   <U+2773>       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>                                                                                       <U+2743>                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                          <U+273D>                               <U+25D7>                       <U+2769>                   <U+2756>                                               <U+2769>                       <U+2756>                           <U+2468>                                       <U+2461>                                   <U+2759>                       <U+2756>                               |                                   <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>                                                                           <U+276C>
                  <U+2737>               <U+2759>                       <U+275A>                   <U+2771>                           <U+2759>                               P                                   P                                   <U+2773>                   <U+2468>                                   <U+2461>                               <U+2759>                                                   |                               <U+275A>                                           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>                               <U+2773>               P                                       <U+275A>                                       <U+2461>                           <U+2756>                                                                               <U+2462>                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                       <U+2756>                               <U+2468>                                           <U+2461>               <U+2773>                       |                                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>                                                       |                                       <U+2773>                               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272E>                                                                                               |                                                                           <U+2773>                                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                   <U+2744>                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                                   <U+2743>                                                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>                                                                                       <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>                                                                                   |                                                               <U+2463>                                                               <U+2466>                                                                           <U+2773>                                       |                                                                           <U+276D>                                                               <U+272E>                                                   |                                               <U+2773>           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                                                                       <U+2740>
                      <U+273C>                               <U+2773>           <U+2463>               <U+2771>                           <U+25D7>                               <U+275A>                                                       <U+2466>                                   <U+25D7>                                       |                                       <U+2759>                               <U+272E>                                                   |               <U+2773>       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>                                                       |                                                                               <U+2772>                                                                           <U+2773>                                       |                                       <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                       <U+2756>                                                   <U+2468>                                                                       <U+2461>                                           <U+2773>                                       |                                                                           <U+276D>                                                                                   <U+272E>                                                       |                                   <U+2773>                               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                                                                                                                       <U+2740>                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                          <U+2742>                                                                   <U+2769>                           <U+2769>                           <U+25D7>                                   |                                                               <U+272E>                                   |                                   <U+2773>               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                           <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>                                                   <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>                                                           <U+2773>                                               <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                               <U+2756>                                   <U+2468>                                   <U+2461>               <U+2773>                           |                                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>                                                                                                           |                                                                           <U+2773>                                   <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                                                                               <U+2740>                                                                               <U+2741>

                                                                                                                                                                                                  40/41
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3000
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>           <U+25D7>                   <U+2463>                           <U+2759>                                   P                           P                                           <U+2773>                                   |                                       <U+276D>                                                               <U+272E>                           |                               <U+2773>               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                                       <U+2744>                                                       <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273D>                       <U+2759>                   <U+2463>                           <U+2759>                               <U+2773>                   <U+278D>                                                       <U+2773>                                   |                                           <U+276D>                                                       <U+272E>                               |                           <U+2773>               <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                                                   <U+2744>                                                   <U+2744>                                           <U+2746>
                          <U+2737>           <U+2773>       P               <U+275A>                   <U+2461>                   <U+2756>               <U+2462>                       <U+272E>               |               <U+2773>           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>                       <U+2759>                       <U+2769>       <U+2759>                           <U+2771>                   <U+2768>                                                                           <U+2773>                           |                                                   <U+2773>                               |                               <U+276D>                           <U+272E>                                               |                       <U+2773>       <U+2769>
                                                                      <U+25CF>                   <U+2744>               <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                                   <U+2744>                                                           <U+2744>                                           <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>                   <U+2773>               P                       <U+275A>                           <U+2461>                   <U+2756>                                           <U+2462>                                                                                                                                       |                               <U+2756>                   <U+2468>                       <U+2461>           <U+2773>                   |                       <U+276D>
                              <U+276C>                                                               <U+2732>
              <U+272C>   <U+25D7>                       <U+2463>           <U+2466>                       <U+2731>                                           <U+2759>           |           P       <U+2773>       <U+2769>       <U+2773>           <U+278D>       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                   |                                               <U+2773>                   <U+2769>
                                                          <U+278A>
                      <U+2732>           <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                                       <U+2744>                                                       <U+2743>                                                   <U+2744>
                                                  <U+2771>                       <U+2756>                       <U+2463>           <U+2759>                           <U+272E>           |               <U+2773>           <U+2769>
                                                                  <U+25CF>                   <U+2744>                           <U+2743>           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>                                           <U+2759>                   <U+2769>                   <U+2759>                                           <U+2463>                                           <U+2769>                                   <U+2773>                   |                                                   <U+276D>                               <U+272E>                                       |                               <U+2773>       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                               <U+2744>                                                   <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>                           <U+2771>                                           <U+2463>                                       <U+2759>                                           <U+275A>                                               <U+2769>                                       <U+2756>                       <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>                                                                               <U+276C>                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>                                                       <U+2769>       <U+275A>                                                                                       <U+2769>                                                                                                                   |                                   <U+2756>                   <U+2468>                       <U+2461>               <U+2773>                   |                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>                                                                                   |                                               <U+2773>                   <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                                       <U+2744>                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>

                                                                                                                                      41/41
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                      3100
                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>           <U+25D7>               <U+2463>               <U+2759>                   P                   P                       <U+2773>                       |                                   <U+276D>                               <U+272E>               |               <U+2773>           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>                                       <U+2743>                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>                       <U+2759>               <U+2463>               <U+2759>               <U+2773>                           <U+278D>                           <U+2773>                       |                               <U+276D>                       <U+272E>               |               <U+2773>           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>                                       <U+2743>                               <U+2744>                               <U+2746>
                          <U+276C>                                           <U+2732>
              <U+272C>   <U+25D7>               <U+2463>       <U+2466>           <U+2731>                           <U+2759>       |       P   <U+2773>       <U+2769>       <U+2773>       <U+278D>   <U+2759>
                      <U+2737>       <U+2773>       P       <U+275A>           <U+2461>       <U+2756>           <U+2462>               <U+272E>           |       <U+2773>       <U+2769>
                                                  <U+25CF>           <U+2743>           <U+2744>
                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>               <U+2773>       P               <U+275A>               <U+2461>               <U+2756>                           <U+2462>                                                                                               |           <U+2756>           <U+2468>               <U+2461>   <U+2773>           |           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>                                               |                                   <U+2773>                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>                                   <U+2743>                                       <U+2744>                                   <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>                   <U+2759>               <U+2769>               <U+2759>                   <U+2463>                           <U+2769>                       <U+2773>                       |                               <U+276D>                       <U+272E>               |               <U+2773>           <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>                                   <U+2743>                                           <U+2743>                               <U+2744>

