   ABSTRACT
   Composite Materials and Uses Thereof
 5 The present invention relates to composite materials and the use thereof as energy
   resistant, for example blast-resistant, materials. Preferred aspects of the invention relate
   to layered composite panels comprising solid foam materials which have both a blast
   attenuation function and an anti-ballistic function.       In further aspects, the invention
   provides novel composite panels which are suitable for use as blast resistant and/or anti
10 ballistic materials. In some examples described, the layered composite panel comprises
   a polymeric material (10) bonded to a first solid open-cell foam panel (12), and a cured
   polymeric material (14) penetrates a surface of the first solid open-cell foam panel (12).
   Figure 1
15

N'CE t 7"
          10

                                                 -1
                              Composite Materials and Uses Thereof
   This disclosure accompanies a divisional application of AU<removed-apn>, the contents of
   which are incorporated herein in its entirety.
 5
   This invention relates to the use of composite materials as energy resistant, for example
   blast-resistant, materials.
   Protection of buildings, vehicles and other structures against the effect of explosive
10 blasts is an important consideration in many environments, for example in war zones, in
   locations where there is a risk of terrorist attacks, or in environments where there is a risk
   of accidental explosion, such as industrial sites. As well as the possibility of physical
   injury to persons in the vicinity of explosions, conventional building materials provide very
   low levels of resistance to energy waves from explosions. For example, a brick and
15 mortar wall of conventional structure has very low resilience and can easily be
   demolished by bombs of the type used by the military and by terrorists. In addition, even
   where a wall or building of conventional brick and mortar construction is not demolished
   by an explosion, the energy wave may be transmitted through the structure in such a way
   that portions of brick and/or mortar and/or plaster on the opposite face the wall may
20 detach from the structure at high velocity posing a danger to persons and/or
   infrastructure behind the wall/in the building.
   For these reasons, measures to protect against explosive blasts are widely used in
   military, governmental, business and industrial applications to avoid casualties and to
25 reduce damage to infrastructure.
   Traditionally, blast protection structures are designed to reflect the energy waves from
   explosive blasts away from a target. Generally such structures comprise steel, concrete
   or reinforced concrete barriers, and have to be extremely bulky to provide adequate
   protection. For example, concrete blast protection structure have a thickness of at least
30 30 cm to provide adequate protection, and are often much thicker, for example of the
   order of 1.0 m or more.        Such structures are time-consuming to install, and can be
   difficult to transport to the required location due to their weight and bulk. In particular,
   such structures are completely unsuited to rapid deployment, e.g. by air, as required by

                                                  -2
   many military operations. Additionally, due to their bulk and unattractive appearance,
   these structures are unsuited for sensitive inner-city locations, where space is at a
   premium and architectural appeal is desirable.
 5 Due to the disadvantages associated with blast-reflective structures, there is a need in
   the art for blast protection materials and structures which are capable of absorbing to an
   extent the energy from energy waves associated with explosive blasts.
   One class of materials that have been developed to address this problem are those
10 containing porous resin-bonded aggregates.          In these materials, aggregate particles,
   such as stone, ceramic or glass chips, are bonded into a matrix using an adhesive or
   resin, for example a polyurethane resin (see WO 97/16697).             The resulting matrix is
   highly porous, such that an explosive blast can be absorbed by breaking of the bonds
   between the particles and densification of the matrix, as well as by diffraction of the
15 energy wave through the voids in the matrix.            In one development, the particulate
   material may be crushable under the impulse of a blast energy wave, with hollow glass
   spheres and pumice being examples of such materials (see WO 2007/141488). Due to
   the porosity of the matrix, these composite materials are lighter than conventional
   reinforced concrete, and require less bulk due to their energy absorbing properties.
20 However, the crushing of these structures often makes them unsuitable for reuse, and
   therefore unsuitable for use in environments where a target may be subject to multiple
   attacks. Furthermore, there is still a need for yet lighter materials.
   Another approach involves the use of fibre-reinforced cementitious panels containing, for
25 example, glass fibre or steel fibre reinforcement. Such materials have high compressive
   and tension strength compared to non-reinforced cementitious materials, and good anti
   ballistic and blast resistant properties. However, the weight of these materials still makes
   them unsuitable for a number of applications.
30 It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does not
   constitute an admission that the prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge
   in the art, in Australia or any other country.

                                                -3
   Embodiments of the invention may relate to layered composite panels comprising solid
   foam materials which are able to reduce the effects of an energy wave from an explosive
   blast, e.g. from an exploding bomb, below levels which can cause catastrophic damage
   to persons or to buildings, vehicles and other structures in the vicinity of the explosion.
 5 Some embodiments relate to the use of layered composite panels to mitigate the effects
   of both energy waves and high-velocity fragments that result from explosions. Some
   embodiments relate to the use of the layered composite panels to also provide protection
   against projectiles, e.g. bullets. Thus, the composite materials used according to an
   embodiment may preferably have both a blast attenuation function and an anti-ballistic
10 function. In further aspects, embodiments may provide novel composite panels which
   are suitable for use as blast resistant and/or anti-ballistic materials. Embodiments may
   further extend the range of materials available for use in providing protection against
   energy waves, such as explosive blast energy waves, and airborne projectiles.
15 In a first aspect, the present invention provides the use of a layered composite panel as
   a blast-resistant shield, wherein the layered composite panel comprises: (i) a first surface
   layer of a sheet form polymeric material; and (ii) a core comprising or consisting of a first
   solid, open-cell foam panel, wherein the first solid open-cell foam panel is non-elastically
   deformable, and wherein the sheet form polymeric material comprises a cured polymeric
20 material which penetrates a surface of the first solid, open-cell foam panel forming a
   bond between the first surface layer and the core.
   The first solid, open-cell foam panel may preferably comprise or consist of a polymeric
   foam. Examples of solid, open-cell polymeric foams which may be used in accordance
25 with this aspect of the present invention include phenolic resin foams, polystyrene foams,
   polyurethane foams, polyethylene foams, polyvinylchloride foams, polyvinylacetate
   foams, polyester foams polyether foams, and foam rubber.          Preferably, the polymeric
   foam may be selected from phenolic resin foams.
30 It has been found that the mechanical properties of phenolic resin foams may make
   them particularly suitable for use in blast-resistant and/or anti-ballistic shields. Further,
   the use of sheet-form polymeric material in conjunction with the phenolic resin foams
   may provide panels of extremely high strength, and high resistance to delamination and

                                                 -4
   fragmentation under the impact of an explosive energy wave.              Thus, the layered
   composite panels may provide exceptional protection from explosive blasts and ballistic
   materials.
 5 The disclosure also provides the use of a layered composite panel as a blast-resistant
   and/or anti-ballistic shield, wherein the layered composite panel comprises: (i) a first
   surface layer of a sheet form polymeric material; and (ii) a core comprising or consisting
   of a first solid, open-cell phenolic resin foam panel, wherein the sheet form polymeric
   material is bonded to a surface of the core.
10
   In accordance with this aspect of an embodiment, the first surface layer of a sheet-form
   polymeric material may preferably comprise a cured polymeric material.                  More
   preferably, the cured polymeric material may penetrate a surface of the first solid open
   cell foam panel so as to form the bond between the first surface layer and the core.
15
   The disclosure also provides the use of a layered composite panel as a blast-resistant
   and/or anti-ballistic shield, wherein the layered composite panel comprises: (i) a core
   comprising or consisting of a first solid, open-cell foam panel and a second solid foam
   panel wherein the foam panels are bonded together by an adhesive or other bonding
20 agent so as to form a monolithic layered structure; and optionally (ii) a first surface layer
   of a sheet form polymeric material, wherein the sheet form polymeric material is bonded
   to a surface of the core.
   In accordance with this embodiment, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may preferably
25 comprise or consist of a polymeric foam as described above.
   In accordance with this embodiment, the first surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric
   material, where present, may preferably comprise a cured polymeric material.            More
   preferably, the cured polymeric material may penetrate a surface of the first solid open
30 cell foam panel so as to form the bond between the first surface layer and the core.
   The disclosure also provides a layered composite panel comprising: (i) a core comprising
   or consisting of a first solid, open-cell foam panel and a second solid foam panel wherein

                                                -5
   the foam panels are bonded together by an adhesive or other bonding agent so as to
   form a monolithic layered structure; and optionally (ii) a first surface layer of a sheet form
   polymeric material, wherein the sheet form polymeric material is bonded to a surface of
   the core, with the proviso that the adhesive or other bonding agent does not form an
 5 air-tight sealing coating around a foam panel of the core.
   The novel layered composite panel may advantageously be used as a blast-resistant
   shield.
10 In accordance with this embodiment, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may preferably
   comprise or consist of a polymeric foam as described above.
   In accordance with this embodiment, the first surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric
   material, where present, may preferably comprise a cured polymeric material.             More
15 preferably, the cured polymeric material may penetrate a surface of the first solid open
   cell foam panel so as to form the bond between the first surface layer and the core.
   In accordance with the foregoing embodiments, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may
   preferably be non-elastically deformable when pressure is applied beyond a certain limit.
20 In some examples, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may deform plastically, retaining
   cohesion as a single object. In other examples, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may
   be frangible, i.e. it may break into fragments when pressure is applied.
   As used herein, the term non-elastically deformable refers to an open-cell foam which
25 undergoes irreversible change to the foam structure when pressure is applied beyond a
   certain limit, i.e. by crushing, collapsing or fragmenting.    Thus, the foam is intended to
   absorb energy from an energy wave by non-elastic deformation.
   In preferred examples, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may be progressively
30 deformable, such that the cells of the foam closest to an applied force collapse, fragment
   or are crushed first, with the cells further away from the applied force initially remaining
   intact.

                                                -6
   The first solid, open-cell foam panel may include a finely-divided particulate reinforcing
   material. Suitable particulate reinforcing materials may preferably be inert and insoluble.
    The reinforcing material may be present in an amount of up to 10 weight percent based
   on the total weight of the foam, for example from 2 to 10 weight percent, or 5 to 10 weight
 5 percent based on the total weight of the foam. Suitable reinforcing materials may include
   organic or inorganic (including metallic) particulate materials, which may be crystalline or
   amorphous. Even fibrous solids have been found to be effective in some embodiments,
   although not preferred.
10 Non-limiting examples of suitable particulate materials may include clays, clay minerals,
   talc, vermiculite, metal oxides, refractories, solid or hollow glass microspheres, fly ash,
   coal dust, wood flour, grain flour, nut shell flour, silica, mineral fibres such as finely
   chopped glass fibre and finely divided asbestos, chopped fibres, finely chopped natural
   or synthetic fibres, ground plastics and resins whether in the form of powder or fibres,
15 e.g. reclaimed waste plastics and resins, pigments such as powdered paint and carbon
   black, and starches.
   In some examples, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may further include chips of
   stone, ceramic, glass or other aggregate materials embedded in the open-cell foam
20 matrix. Preferably, the chips may have a size of from 2 to 50 mm in each dimension,
   more preferably from 2 to 20 mm in each dimension. These materials have been found
   to improve the anti-ballistic properties of the composite panels of an embodiment, for
   example by preventing bullets from penetrating the panels.
25 Preferably the first solid open-cell foam panel may have a density in the range of 100 to
   500 kg-m- 3 , more preferably 120 to 400 kg-m-3, and most preferably 120 to 250 kg-m-3,
   exclusive of any aggregate chips that may be embedded in the foam.
   The physical properties of such foams, especially the compressive strength and
30 deflection under load are believed to be related to (amongst other factors) cell wall
   thickness and average cell diameter. Preferably, the average cell diameter of the solid
   open-cell foam may be in the range of about 0.5 mm to 5 mm, more preferably 0.5 or 1
   mm to 2 or 3 mm.

                                               -7
   The cells or pores of the first solid open-cell foam panel may preferably open to a
   surface of the core on which sheet form polymeric material is applied, and preferably
   they open out below the surface to a greater width than the opening, thereby providing an
 5 undercut which enhance bonding of the sheet form polymeric material to the open cell
   foam.
   In some embodiments of the disclosure, the first surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric
   material may be formed from a sheet-form curable polymeric material, for example a
10 thermosetting polymeric material.
   The sheet-form polymeric material may preferably comprise a matrix comprising or
   consisting of a thermosetting polymer resin, for example, a thermosetting polymer resin
   matrix selected from polyester resins, vinyl ester resins, epoxy resins, phenolic resins,
15 bismaleimide resins or polyimide resins. Most preferably, the sheet-form polymeric
   material may comprise a thermosetting polymer resin matrix selected from polyester
   resins. The sheet-form polymeric material may also include melamine, which is useful
   as a fire retardant.  The sheet-form polymeric material may further include additives
   selected from hardeners, accelerators, fillers, pigments, and/or any other components as
20 required.
   In some examples, the sheet-form polymeric material may be cured in contact with a
   solid open-cell foam panel of the core, such that a bond is formed without the need for an
   adhesive layer. For example, the bond may be produced by pressing sheet-form curable
25 polymeric material and the solid, open-cell foam panel together and curing the sheet
   form curable polymeric material with heat. In this way, at least a portion of material from
   the sheet-form curable polymeric material can flow into the cells and interstices of the
   open-cell foam to form a bond between the core and the sheet-form polymeric material
   as it cures.
30
   In some examples, the cured polymeric material may penetrate the solid, open-cell foam
   to a depth which is at least equivalent to the average cell diameter of the foam, more
   preferably to a depth which is at least equivalent to two times the average cell diameter

                                               -8
   of the foam. Alternatively, the cured polymeric material may penetrate the solid, open
   cell foam to a depth of at least 0.5 mm, more preferably at least 1.0 mm, and still more
   preferably at least 2.0 mm, for example 2.5 mm or 3.0 mm.
 5 In this way, the sheet-form polymeric material may form a skin on the solid open-cell
   foam panel which is mechanically keyed into the surface of the solid open-cell foam
   panel.    By "mechanically keyed" it is meant that at least a portion of the sheet-form
   polymeric material penetrates at least a portion of the solid open-cell foam panel and
   forms a mechanical interaction with the solid open-cell foam panel.         Thus, at least a
10 portion of the sheet-form polymeric material may become effectively entrapped within the
   outer cells of the solid open-cell foam panel to form a strong mechanical bond. In this
   way, a stable monolithic layered composite structure may be obtained without the need
   for an adhesive to be applied between the layers.
15 In some cases, it has been found that the bond achieved at the interface of the skin and
   a solid open-cell foam panel may be stronger than the material of the foam panel itself.
   As a result, the layered composite panels used according to the disclosure may be
   extremely strong, highly-resistant to delamination of the sheet-form material from the
   core, and highly-resistant to fragmentation of the core under the impact of an explosive
20 energy wave. Specifically, it has been found that the sheet-form polymeric material may
   act as a flexible retaining layer which maintains the integrity of the solid, open-cell foam
   panel even as it is deformed/crushed by an explosive energy wave. It has been found
   that these constructions may provide exceptional protection from explosive blasts and
   ballistic materials.
25
   In other embodiments of the disclosure, an adhesive layer may be provided between the
   first surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric material and the solid, open-cell foam panel.
   In principle, any type of adhesive or other bonding agent suitable to form a strong bond
   between the two layers may be used.
30
   The sheet-form polymeric material may preferably comprise reinforcement, for example
   reinforcing fibres. The fibres may include one or more materials. For example the fibres
   may include one or more of carbon fibres, glass fibres, aramid fibres and/or polyethylene

                                                -9
   fibres, such as ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE).           In one preferred
   embodiment, the reinforcement may comprise or consist of glass fibres, for example E
   glass fibres or S-glass fibres.
 5 The reinforcing fibres may be short fibres, for example having lengths of 5.0 cm or less,
   or may be longer fibres.      The fibres may be loose, for example, the fibres may be
   arranged in a uni- or multi-directional manner. The fibres may be part of a network, for
   example woven or knitted together in any appropriate manner. The arrangement of the
   fibres may be random or regular, and may comprise a fabric, mat, felt or woven or other
10 arrangement. Fibres may provide a continuous filament winding. Optionally, more than
   one layer of fibres may be provided.
   Preferably the sheet-form polymeric material may comprise SMC (sheet moulding
   compound). The SMC may preferably include a thermosetting polymer matrix as defined
15 above and reinforcing fibres also as defined above. For example, the SMC may include
   a thermosetting resin, for example a polyester resin, together with reinforcing fibres, for
   example glass fibres.     The thermosetting polymer may further comprise additives, for
   example minerals, inert fillers, pigments, stabilizers, inhibitors, release agents, catalysts,
   thickeners, hydrating additives and/or other suitable materials.
20
   There may be benefits in using SMC as the first surface layer. For example, SMC has
   low density but favourable mechanical properties compared with other sheet-form
   polymeric materials.    In particular, it has been found that the very high compressive,
   tensile, flexural and impact strength of SMC may make it particularly suitable for use in
25 blast-resistant and/or anti-ballistic panels, for example in resisting delamination of the
   surface layer and maintaining the integrity of the layered composite panel against an
   energy wave from an explosive blast. SMC also exhibits good thermal properties and
   chemical resistance. Of particular importance in the context of the disclosure, resistance
   to fire may be good. Thus, the panels of the disclosure may also provide some degree
30 of protection against the risk of fire associated with explosive blasts and certain types of
   ballistic materials.
   The sheet form polymeric material may preferably have a thickness in the range of from

                                                 - 10
   0.5 to 25 mm, more preferably from 0.5 to 15 mm, still more preferably from 0.5 to 10
   mm, and most preferably from 0.5 to 5 mm.             For example, the sheet form polymeric
   material may have a thickness of 1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm or 4 mm.
 5 Preferably, the first surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material may extend across an
   entire surface of the first solid open-cell foam panel.
   The first surface layer of sheet form polymeric material may desirably be orientated in
   use towards the origin of a potential explosive blast or ballistic material.
10
   The core may consist of the first solid, open-cell foam panel. The core may comprise
   more than one foam panel.         In particular, in some of the foregoing embodiments, the
   core may comprise a second foam panel bonded to the first solid open-cell foam panel
   by way of an adhesive or bonding agent.
15
   Where present, the second solid foam panel may be the same as or different to the first
   solid open-cell foam panel. Thus, the second solid foam panel may comprise or consist
   of an open-cell foam or a closed-cell foam. Preferably, the second solid foam panel may
   comprise an open-cell foam, and most preferably may be an open-cell polymeric foam,
20 for example an open-cell polymeric foam as described above.
   The adhesive or bonding agent used to bond the first and second foam layers may
   preferably comprise or consist of one or more elastomers. Preferably, the adhesive or
   bonding agent may comprise or consist of at least one elastomer selected from: natural
25 rubber, synthetic polyisoprene, butyl rubber, halogenated butyl rubber, polybutadiene,
   styrene-butadiene rubber, nitrile rubber, hydrogenated nitrile rubber, chloroprene rubber,
   silicone rubber, and halogenated silicone rubber.
   Where the adhesive or bonding agent comprises one or more elastomers, the elastomer
30 may preferably penetrate at least a portion of the first solid open-cell foam panel. For
   example, the elastomer may penetrate the first solid, open-cell foam panel to a depth
   which is at least equivalent to the average cell diameter of the foam, more preferably to a
   depth which is at least equivalent to two times the average cell diameter of the foam.

                                               - 11
   Alternatively, the elastomer may penetrate the first solid, open-cell foam panel to a depth
   of at least 0.5 mm, more preferably at least 1.0 mm, and still more preferably at least 2.0
   mm, for example 2.5 mm or 3.0 mm.
 5 More preferably, where the second solid foam panel comprises an open-cell foam, the
   elastomer may preferably penetrate at least a portion of each of the solid open-cell foam
   panels.     For example, the elastomer may penetrate the first and/or the second solid,
   open-cell foam panel to a depth which is at least equivalent to the average cell diameter
   of the foam, more preferably to a depth which is at least equivalent to two times the
10 average cell diameter of the foam. Alternatively, the elastomer may penetrate the first
   and/or the second solid, open-cell foam panel to a depth of at least 0.5 mm, more
   preferably at least 1.0 mm, and still more preferably at least 2.0 mm, for example 2.5
   mm or 3.0 mm.
15 If required, the properties of each of the solid foam panels may be selected so as to
   optimise the blast-resistance and anti-ballistic properties of the layered composite
   panels.     For example, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may have a resistance to
   deformation (e.g. crushing, collapse, or fragmentation) that is lower than the second solid
   foam panel. In this way, the layered composite panel may have a progressive resistance
20 to deformation that increase from one solid foam panel to the next. The difference in
   resistance to deformation between the solid foam panels may be due to a difference in
   density. Other arrangements are of course possible, as will be appreciated by persons of
   skill in the art.
25 It has been found that these constructions may provide blast-resistant and anti-ballistic
   panels which are extremely strong, highly resistant to delamination and fragmentation of
   the core layers under the impact of an explosive energy wave, and which may provide
   exceptional protection from explosive blasts and ballistic materials.
30 The core may comprise one or more further core layers. In this way, the core may be
   formed from a plurality of layers or plies, wherein the plurality of layers or plies are
   preferably bonded together so as to form a monolithic core structure.

                                                - 12
   Preferably the plurality of layers or plies may be coextensive with one another. However,
   it is not excluded that in certain embodiments, the various layers or plies of the core may
   differ in extent. For example, one or more further core layers may be used only in areas
   of particular vulnerability to explosive impact, or to provide structural reinforcement in
 5 areas of the panel subjected to increased mechanical stress (e.g. at or around joints).
   In some embodiments, the core may comprise one or more further solid foam panels,
   which may be the same or different to the first solid, open-cell foam panel and/or the
   second solid foam panel (where present). Thus, the one or more additional solid foam
10 panels may comprise or consist of an open-cell or closed-cell foam. Preferably, the one
   or more additional solid foam panels may comprise an open-cell foam, and most
   preferably may be an open-cell polymeric foam, for example an open-cell polymeric foam
   as described above.
15 In accordance with this embodiment, the properties of each of the solid foam panels may
   be selected so as to optimise the blast-resistance and anti-ballistic properties of the
   layered composite panels. For example, the first solid, open-cell foam panel may have a
   resistance to deformation (e.g. crushing, collapse, or fragmentation) that is lower than a
   second solid foam panel.         In this way, the layered composite panel may have a
20 progressive resistance to deformation that increase from one solid foam panel to the
   next. Other arrangements are of course possible, as will be appreciated by persons of
   skill in the art.
   In an embodiment, the composite panel may comprise three solid foam panels.
25 Preferably, the two outer panels may sandwich an inner panel.         Preferably, the inner
   panel may have a lower resistance to deformation than the outer panels, for example by
   having a lower density. Preferably, the inner solid foam panel may have a density of 100
   to 140 kg-m- 3 , and the outer solid foam panels may have a density of 130 to 170 kg-m 3.
   More preferably, the inner solid foam panel may have a density of 115 to 125 kg-m- 3 , and
30 the outer solid foam panels may have a density of 145 to 155 kg-m- 3. It is believed that,
   under large or repeated impact, the inner panel absorbs at least a portion of the impact
   energy and thus deforms, for example by being frangible, whilst the outer panels remain
   substantially intact.

                                              - 13
   In another embodiment, the composite material may comprise more than three solid
   foam panels in a sandwich like structure. Preferably, one or more of the inner solid foam
   panels may have a lower resistance to deformation than its respective outer panels.
 5 Preferably, one or more of the inner solid foam panels may have a density of 100 to 140
   kg-m- 3 , and the outer solid foam panels may have a density of 130 to 170 kg-m- 3 . More
   preferably, one or more of the inner solid foam panels may have a density of 115 to 125
   kg-m- 3 , and the outer solid foam panels may have a density of 145 to 155 kg-m- 3 . In all
   of the embodiments where the composite material comprises a plurality of layers or plies,
10 the outer panels may be the same or different from one another.
   The one or more further solid foam panels may be bonded directly to one another so as
   to form a monolithic core structure, or may be bonded together through one or more
   intermediate layers.
15
   Where the core comprises one or more further solid foam panels, such as one or more
   additional solid, open-cell foam panels, any two of the panels may be bonded together by
   way of an adhesive or other bonding agent.         The adhesive or bonding agent may
   preferably comprise or consist of one or more elastomers as described above. The
20 elastomer may penetrate one or more of the foam panels as described above.
   Thus, in one particularly preferred embodiment, the core may comprise the first solid
   open-cell foam panel and a second solid-open-cell foam panel, which may be the same
   as or different from the first, wherein the panels are joined together by an adhesive or
25 bonding agent which comprises one or more elastomers, and wherein the elastomer
   penetrates the solid open-cell foam panels as described above.
   In another particularly preferred embodiment, the core may comprise the first, second
   and third solid open-cell foam panels, which may each be the same or different, wherein
30 the panels are joined together by an adhesive or bonding agent which comprises one or
   more elastomers, and wherein the elastomer penetrates the solid open-cell foam panels
   as described above.

                                               - 14
   In some embodiments, the core may further comprise one or more reinforcing layers.
   One type of reinforcing layer suitable for the layered composite panels described above
   may comprise reinforcing fibres. The fibres may include one or more materials. For
 5 example, the fibres may include one or more of carbon fibres, glass fibres, aramid fibres
   and/or polyethylene fibres, such as ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE)
   fibres. In one preferred embodiment, the reinforcement may comprise or consist of glass
   fibres, for example E-glass fibres and/or S-glass fibres.
10 Preferably, the reinforcing fibres used in the one or more reinforcing layers may be in the
   form of a woven or orientated fabric, felt, mat or web, which may be formed in any
   suitable manner as known in the art.
   The reinforcing layer comprising reinforcing fibres in the form of a woven or orientated
15 fabric, felt, mat or web may preferably be penetrable by a curable material or by an
   adhesive.     In this way, the reinforcing layer may be used as an intermediate layer
   between the first surface layer of a sheet form cured polymeric material and the first
   solid, open-cell foam panel, such that cured polymeric material may preferably penetrate
   the reinforcing layer and a surface of the open-cell foam panel, thus forming a bond
20 between the first surface layer and the core, with the reinforcing layer embedded in cured
   polymeric material.
   In another example, the reinforcing layer may be used as an intermediate layer between
   two adjacent foam panels in the core, wherein the reinforcing layers is embedded in the
25 adhesive or bonding agent (e.g. containing an elastomer) that is used to bond the foam
   panels together as described above.
   The core may further comprise one or more layers of sheet form polymeric material as
   described above. In a preferred embodiment, the sheet form polymeric material may
30 comprise a cured polymeric material which penetrates the surface of at least one
   adjacent solid open-cell foam panel. More preferably, the sheet form polymeric material
   may comprise a cured polymeric material which penetrates the surface of two adjacent
   solid open-cell foam panels, so as to bond the panels together.

                                              - 15
   The core may further comprise one or more other types of blast-resistant and/or anti
   ballistic materials. A range of suitable materials are known in the art which may readily
   be incorporated into the layered composite materials described above. For example,
 5 suitable additional layers may be selected from glass reinforced plastic (GRP) panels,
   ceramic panels, ceramic-reinforced plastic panels, steel panels, or similar.
   The core may further comprise one or more fire-retardant layers. Examples of materials
   which may be incorporated into the one or more fire-retardant layers include rock wool,
10 gypsum, perlite, vermiculite, alumina, aluminium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide, and
   calcium silicate.
   The core may preferably have a thickness in the range of from 20 to 500 mm, more
   preferably 20 to 250 mm, still more preferably from 20 to 200 mm, still more preferably
15 from 20 to 150 mm, still more preferably from 20 to 100 mm, and most preferably from
   50 to 100 mm. For example, the core may have a thickness of at least 25 mm, at least
   40 mm, or at least 50 mm.
   The layered composite panel may further comprise (iii) a second surface layer of a sheet
20 form polymeric material, wherein the core is disposed between the first and second
   surface layers of sheet-form polymeric material, such that the resulting layered
   composite panel has a sandwich construction - the core being sandwiched betweeh first
   and second surface layers of sheet-form polymeric material.
25 The first and second surface layers of sheet-form polymeric material may be the same or
   different.  Preferably, the second surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material may
   comprise a thermosetting polymer matrix as defined above, and/or may preferably
   comprise reinforcement as described above. In a preferred embodiment the first and
   second surface layers of sheet-form polymeric material may consist of SMC as defined
30 above. Where the second layer of sheet form polymeric material comprises a cured
   polymeric material, a portion of the curable material may preferably penetrate the surface
   of an open-cell foam panel forming a bond between the second surface layer and the
   core.

                                               - 16
   Where the core consists of a first solid, open-cell foam panel, the second surface layer of
   sheet-form polymeric material may be bonded to a surface of the solid, open-cell foam
   panel opposite the first surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material.
 5
   Where the core comprises two or more layers and/or panels, the second surface layer of
   sheet-form polymeric material may be bonded to a surface of the core opposite the first
   surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material.       Preferably, the core may comprise a
   solid foam layer adjacent to the second surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material.
10 More preferably, the core may comprise a solid, open-cell foam layer adjacent to the
   second surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material.
   Alternatively, the second surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material may be bonded
   to the core by way of an adhesive or other bonding agent.
15
   A reinforcing layer comprising reinforcing fibres, for example in the form of a woven or
   orientated fabric, felt, mat or web, may optionally be disposed between the second
   surface layer of sheet-form material and the core.
20 The layered composite panel may preferably have a thickness in the range of from 21 to
   550 mm, more preferably 21 to 275 mm, still more preferably from 21 to 220 mm, still
   more preferably from 21 to 165 mm, still more preferably from 21 to 110 mm, and most
   preferably from 51 to 110 mm. For example, the layered composite panel may have a
   thickness of at least 26 mm, at least 41 mm, or at least 51 mm.
25
   The layered composite panel may preferably be capable of withstanding an energy wave
   having an impulse of at least 20 psi-ms-1. In some embodiments, the layered composite
   panel may be capable of withstanding an energy wave having an impulse of at least 50
   psi-ms-1 , more preferably at least 100 psi-ms-1 , more preferably at least 150 psi-ms-1 , still
30 more preferably at least 200 psi-ms-1 , and most preferably 250 psi-ms-1.                   By
   "withstanding", it is meant that the layered composite material remains intact, without
   fragmentation and/or delamination of the surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material,
   and that the impulse transmitted through the layered composite material is reduced to no

                                                    - 17
   more than 20% of the impulse of the energy wave before the panel, preferably no more
   than 10%, still more preferably no more than 5%, and most preferably no more than 2%
   of the impulse of the energy wave before the panel.
 5 It will be appreciated that other arrangements of layers are possible within the scope of
   the present disclosure. For instance, the layered composite material may include one or
   more further layers of sheet-form polymeric material, one or more further reinforcing
   layers, one or more further foam layers, and/or one or more further fire-retardant layers.
10 The component layers or panels of the layered composite panel may be assembled in a
   variety of ways.        Thus, the layers may be bonded together simultaneously or
   consecutively. Where the layers are bonded together consecutively, the order in which
   the layers are bonded together is not limited.
15 In a preferred example, the layered composite panel may be formed by a method that
   comprises the steps of layering a sheet-form curable material (e.g. SMC) and at least the
   first solid, open-cell foam panel in a press and applying heat and/or pressure to the
   layers to cure the sheet-form material, thus forming a bond to the solid open-cell foam.
   Preferably, at least a portion of the material of the sheet-form curable material may flow
20 into the cells or interstices of the first solid, open-cell foam panel during the curing step.
   The resulting composite may optionally be bonded to one or more additional core layers
   and/or a second surface layer of sheet-form polymeric material in one or more
   subsequent manufacturing steps. Alternatively, or in addition, the solid open-cell foam
25 panel may be bonded to one or more additional core component layers or panels prior to
   the curing step.
   In a further example, the method may comprise the steps of layering a sheet-form
   curable polymeric material, a core (e.g. consisting of the first solid open-cell foam panel,
30 or a plurality of core panels/layers), and a second layer of sheet-form curable polymeric
   material in a press and applying heat and/or pressure to the layers. In this way, the first
   and second surface layers of sheet-form polymeric material may be bonded to the core
   in a single step.

                                                 - 18
   In a preferred embodiment, one or both faces of the layered composite panel may have
   a profiled surface. For example, one or both faces of the layered composite panel may
   have a profiled surface formed by a moulding technique. Where a profiled surface is
 5 used, it may preferably be formed on a surface which is visible when the layered
   composite panel is in use. For example, the profile may be formed on the first surface
   layer. In this way, the aesthetic effect of the layered composite panels of the disclosure
   may be improved, and the function of the panels may be disguised for aesthetic and
   security reasons.
10
   In a preferred embodiment, the profiled surface may be formed by a method as
   described above, wherein the press is provided with a mould surface having a negative
   impression of the desired profile.
15 In particular, the method may preferably comprise the steps of: (i) providing a mould
   surface having a negative impression of the desired profile; (ii) layering a sheet-form
   curable polymeric material (e.g. SMC) over the surface of the mould; (iii) providing a core
   (e.g. consisting of the first solid open-cell foam panel, or a plurality of core panels/layers)
   over the sheet-form curable polymeric material; and (iv) optionally providing a second
20 surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric material (e.g. SMC) over the core; and (v)
   pressing the layers into the mould, optionally with heating.
   Upon pressing the layers into the mould, air is expelled from the first solid, open-cell
   foam panel, and some cells of the foam are preferably crushed, so as to allow the foam
25 to assume the shape of the mould and thereby press the sheet-form polymeric material
   into the mould.
   The first solid open-cell foam panel may optionally be bonded to one or more additional
   core layers/panels prior to the moulding step.      Alternatively, bonding between the first
30 solid, open-cell foam panel and one or more additional core layers/panels and/or a
   second surface layers of a sheet form polymeric material may take place during one or
   more subsequent steps. In a further possibility, one or more additional core layers and/or
   a second surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric material may also be bonded together

                                                - 19
   in the pressing step (e.g. where the second surface layer of a sheet-form polymeric
   material comprises a curable material).
   Optionally, a second mould surface may be provided over the second layer of sheet-form
 5 polymeric material, such that a layered composite panel is provided having a profiled
   surface on both faces.
   Where the layered composite panel has a profiled surface formed by moulding, the first
   and/or second layers of sheet-from polymeric material may preferably be formed from a
10 sheet-form curable polymeric material, such as SMC.              Preferably, the sheet-form
   polymeric material layer may be adjacent to a solid open-cell foam panel, such as a solid
   open-cell phenolic resin foam panel.
   In some examples, an outer surface of the sheet-form polymeric material may optionally
15 be bonded to a surface effect material. The surface effect material may be selected so as
   to provide the layered composite panel with, for example, a simulated stone surface, a
   simulated brick surface, a simulated wood surface, a wood laminate surface, a material
   of high thermal conductivity (a      "cool touch"    surface), or a reflective surface.  For
   example, a granular material, such as sand or metal granules, a veneer element, such
20 as a wood veneer element, a brick veneer element, a stone veneer element, or a metallic
   foil/metallic particles can be bonded to, or partially embedded into the surface of the
   sheet form polymeric material. Different surface effects can be obtained by selection of
   the types of surface effect materials that are used.
25 To improve the rigidity of the layered composite panels used, the layered composite panels
   may be mounted in a frame or by frame members such as stiles, rails, and/or mullions.
   The frame members may be of wood, metal (for example, aluminium), or plastics (such
   as UPVC), or a combination of these.
30 In one embodiment, the layered composite panels may occupy substantially the entire
   volume or volume within the frame, such that frame members abut the edges of the
   layered composite panels. In another embodiment, substantially the entire volume or
   volumes within the frame may be occupied by the core, and the first and/or second

                                                - 20
   surface layers of a sheet form polymeric material may overlie substantially the entire
   surface of the frame and the layers contained therein. It will be appreciated that the use
   of frame members, particularly metal frame members, may compromise the blast
   resistance of the layered composite panels of the invention.      Thus, the use of frame
 5 members is ideally kept to the minimum necessary to obtain the necessary structural
   rigidity of the layered composite panels of the invention.
   The layered composite panels may be formed in a large surface area, or continuous
   configuration, and subsequently cut to the required size.       Alternatively, the layered
10 composite panels may be custom fabricated with the required dimensions for a particular
   application.
   In one embodiment, the composite materials may be provided in the form of modular
   panels, wherein each panel is provided with interconnecting means to allow a series of
15 panels to be interconnected.       In a preferred embodiment, the interconnecting means
   may be a tongue and groove arrangement.
   Where the core comprises more than three layers or panels, the tongue and groove
   arrangement may be obtained by offsetting one or more central layers or panels relative
20 to two or more outer layers. The offset may be linear or diagonal. Where the offset is
   linear, the layered composite panels may be connected in a two-dimensional array.
   Where the offset is diagonal, the layered composite panels may be connected in a three
   dimensional array.
25 Alternatively, or where the core comprises fewer than three layers, the tongue and
   groove arrangement may be obtained by contouring the edges of the individual layers of
   the core. Where the tongue and groove arrangement is provided on two opposite edges of
   the layered composite panels, the panels may be connected in a two-dimensional
   array. Where the tongue and groove arrangement is provided on all edges of the layered
30 composite panels, the panels may be connected in a three-dimensional array.
   Where a tongue and groove arrangement is used, the tongue and/or groove portions
   may comprise means for maintaining the integrity of the tongue and groove joint. For

                                                 - 21
   example, the tongue and/or groove portions may be provided with a gripping surface,
   such as a rubberised coating. Alternatively, the tongue and/or groove portions may be
   provided with an adhesive prior to joining the panels.
 5 The layered composite panel may be used in conjunction with a reinforced webbing
   material, such as a poly-aramid webbing or a UHMWPE webbing material.                   Such
   webbing materials are well-known in the art and may be used, for example, to prevent
   fragmentation and/or the release of high velocity fragments from the rear surface of walls
   when exposed to the energy wave from an explosive blast.
10
   Such webbing materials may provide further attenuation of the effects of an explosive
   blast. Preferably the webbing materials may be bonded to or positioned across a
   rear surface of the layered composite panel, i.e. a surface opposite the surface that faces
   the potential origin of an explosive blast or ballistic material.
15
   In accordance with the disclosure, the composite material panels may be used to form a
   blast-resistant and/or anti-ballistic envelope around persons or infrastructure that are at
   risk of damage or injury from an explosive blast or high-velocity fragments. Thus, for
   example, the composite material panels may be used to reinforce existing structures, such
20 as buildings or vehicles, for example as cladding. In some examples, the composite
   material panels may be spaced apart from an existing structure, or may be fixed directly
   to the existing structure.
   In other examples, the composite material panels may be used as construction materials in
25 their own right without any internal pre-existing structure.      In a particularly preferred
   embodiment, the composite materials may be mounted in a frame, e.g. a steel frame, to
   form a wall or building.    For example, the composite materials may be prefabricated in
   modular form, allowing rapid construction of walls and/or buildings in situ. In one preferred
   embodiment, the composite material panels may be mounted using expansion clips of a
30 type known in the art. These clips can expand in response to an explosive energy wave
   contacting the composite material panels, so as to further assist in absorbing the energy of
   the explosion.

                                                 - 22
   As noted above, a particularly suitable solid open-cell foam may be a solid open-cell
   phenolic resin foam. For example, a suitable foam may be produced by way of a curing
   reaction between:
            (a)     a liquid phenolic resole having a reactivity number (as defined below) of at
 5          least 1; and
            (b)     a strong acid hardener for the resole; optionally in the presence of:
            (c)     a finely divided inert and insoluble particulate solid which is present,
            where used, in an amount of at least 5% by weight of the liquid resole and is
            substantially uniformly dispersed through       the   mixture containing resole and
10          hardener;
   the temperature of the mixture containing resole and hardener due to applied heat not
   exceeding 85 'C and the said temperature and the concentration of the acid hardener
   being such that compounds generated as by-products of the curing reaction are
   volatilised within the mixture before the mixture sets such that a foamed phenolic resin
15 product is produced.
   By a phenolic resole is meant a solution in a suitable solvent of an acid-curable
   prepolymer composition prepared by condensation of at least one phenolic compound
   with at least one aldehyde, usually in the presence of an alkaline catalyst such as sodium
20 hydroxide.
   Examples of phenols that may be employed are phenol itself and substituted, usually
   alkyl substituted, derivatives thereof, with the condition that that the three positions on
   the phenolic benzene ring          ortho- and para- to the phenolic hydroxyl group are
25 unsubstituted. Mixtures of such phenols may also be used. Mixtures of one or more
   than one of such phenols with substituted phenols in which one of the ortho- or para
   positions has been substituted may also be employed where an improvement in the flow
   characteristics of the resole is required. However, in this case the degree of cross-linking
   of the cured phenolic resin foam may be reduced.              Phenol itself may generally be
30 preferred as the phenol component for economic reasons.
   The aldehyde will generally be formaldehyde although the use of higher molecular weight
   aldehydes is not excluded.

                                                 - 23
   The phenol/aldehyde condensation product component of the resole may be suitably
   formed by reaction of the phenol with at least 1 mole of formaldehyde per mole of the
   phenol, the formaldehyde being generally provided as a solution in water, e.g. as
 5 formalin. It may be preferred to use a molar ratio of formaldehyde to phenol of at least
   1.25 to 1 but ratios above 2.5 to 1 are preferably avoided. The most preferred range may
   be 1.4 to 2.0 to 1.
   The mixture may also contain a compound having two active hydrogen atoms (dihydric
10 compound) that will react with the phenol/aldehyde reaction product of the resole during
   the curing step to reduce the density of cross-linking. Preferred dihydric compounds may
   be diols, especially alkylene diols or diols in which the chain of atoms between the hydroxy
   groups contains not only methylene and/or alkyl-substituted methylene groups but also
   one or more heteroatoms, especially oxygen atoms.             Suitable diols include ethylene
15 glycol, propylene glycol, propane-1,3-diol, butane-1,4-diol and neopentyl glycol.
   Particularly preferred diols may be poly-, especially di-,(alkylene ether) diols, for example
   diethylene glycol and, especially, dipropylene glycol.
   Preferably the dihydric compound may be present in an amount of from 0 to 35% by
20 weight, more preferably 0 to 25% by weight, based on the weight of phenol/aldehyde
   condensation product.      Most preferably, the dihydric compound, when used, may be
   present in an amount of from 5 to 15% by weight based on the weight of
   phenol/aldehyde condensation product.              When such resoles       containing dihydric
   compounds are employed in the present process, products having a particularly good
25 combination of physical properties, especially strength, can be obtained.
   Suitably, the dihydric compound may be added to the formed resole and may preferably
   have 2 to 6 atoms between hydroxy groups.
30 The resole may comprise a solution of the phenol/aldehyde reaction product in water or
   in any other suitable solvent or in a solvent mixture, which may or may not include water.
   Where water is used as the sole solvent, it may preferably be present in an amount of from

                                               - 24
   15 to 35% by weight of the resole, preferably 20 to 30%. Of course the water content
   may be substantially less if it is used in conjunction with a cosolvent, e.g. an alcohol or
   one of the above-mentioned dihydric compounds where used.
 5 As indicated above, the liquid resole (i.e. the solution of phenol/aldehyde product 25
   optionally containing dihydric compound) must have a reactivity number of at least 1.
   The reactivity number is 10/x where x is the time in minutes required to harden the resole
   using 10% by weight of the resole of a 66 to 67% aqueous solution of p-toluene sulfonic
   acid at 60 'C. The test involves mixing about 5 mL of the resole with the stated amount of
10 the p-toluene sulfonic acid solution in a test tube, immersing the test tube in a water bath
   heated to 60 'C and measuring the time required for the mixture to become hard to the
   touch.    The resole should have a reactivity number of at least 1 for useful foamed
   products to be produced and preferably the resole has a reactivity number of at least 5,
   most preferably at least 10.
15
   The pH of the resole, which is generally alkaline, is preferably adjusted to about 7, if
   necessary, for use in the process, suitably by the addition of a weak organic acid such as
   lactic acid.
20 Examples of strong acid hardeners may be inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid,
   sulphuric acid and phosphoric acid, and strong organic acids such as aromatic sulphonic
   acids, e.g. toluene sulphonic acids, and trichloroacetic acid. Weak acids such as acetic
   acid and propionic acid are generally not suitable. The preferred hardeners for the
   process of the invention may be the aromatic sulfonic acids, especially toluene sulfonic
25 acids. The acid may be used as a solution in a suitable solvent such as water.
   When the mixture of resole, hardener and solid is to be poured, e.g. into a mould and in
   slush moulding applications, the amount of inert solid that can be added to the resole and
   hardener is determined by the viscosity of the mixture of resole and hardener in the
30 absence of the solid. For these applications, it may be preferred that the hardener is
   provided in a form, e.g. solution, such that when mixed with the resole in the required
   amount yields a liquid having an apparent viscosity not exceeding about 50 poises at the
   temperature at which the mixture is to be used, and the preferred range may be 5 to 20

                                                 - 25
   poises. Below 5 poises, the amount of solvent present tends to present difficulties during
   the curing reaction.
   The curing reaction is exothermic and will therefore of itself cause the temperature of the
 5 mixture containing resole and acid hardener to increase. The temperature of the mixture
   may also be raised by applied heat, but the temperature to which said mixture may then
   be raised (that is, excluding the effect of any exotherm) preferably does not exceed
   85 'C. If the temperature of the mixture exceeds 85 'C before addition of the hardener, it
   is usually difficult or impossible thereafter to properly disperse the hardener through the
10 mixture because of incipient curing. On the other hand, it is difficult, if not impossible, to
   uniformly heat the mixture above 85 'C after addition of the hardener.
   Increasing the temperature towards 85 'C tends to lead to coarseness and non
   uniformity of the texture of the foam but this can be offset at least to some extent at
15 moderate temperatures by reducing the concentration of hardener.                  However at
   temperatures much above 75 'C even the minimum amount of hardener required to
   cause the composition to set is generally too much to avoid these disadvantages. Thus,
   temperatures above 75 'C are preferably avoided and preferred temperatures for most
   applications may be from ambient temperature to about 75 'C.                   The preferred
20 temperature range usually depends to some extent on the nature of the particulate solid,
   where used. For most solids the preferred temperature range may be from 25 to 65 'C,
   but for some solids, in particular wood flour and grain flour, the preferred temperature
   range may be 25 to 75 'C. The most preferred temperature range may be 30 to 50 'C.
   Temperatures below ambient, e.g. down to 10 'C can be used if desired, but no
25 advantage is usually gained thereby. In general, at temperatures up to 75 'C, increase in
   temperature leads to decrease in the density of the foam and vice versa.
   The amount of hardener present may also affect the nature of the product as well as the
   rate of hardening.     Thus, increasing the amount of hardener may not only have the
30 effect of reducing the time required to harden the composition, but above a certain
   level dependant on the temperature and nature of the resole it may also tend to produce a
   less uniform cell structure. It may also tend to increase the density of the foam because of
   the increase in the rate of hardening.     In fact, if too high a concentration of hardener is

                                                 - 26
   used, the rate of hardening may be so rapid that no foaming occurs at all and under
   some conditions the reaction can become explosive because of the build up of gas inside a
   hardened shell of resin. The appropriate amount of hardener will depend primarily on the
   temperature of the mixture of resole and hardener prior to the commencement of the
 5 exothermic curing reaction and the reactivity number of the resole and will vary inversely
   with the chosen temperature and the reactivity number. The preferred range of hardener
   concentration may be the equivalent of 2 to 20 parts by weight of p-toluene sulfonic acid
   per 100 parts by weight of phenol/aldehyde reaction product in the resole, assuming that
   the resole has a substantially neutral reaction, i.e. a pH of about 7. By equivalent to p
10 toluene sulfonic acid, we mean the amount of hardener required to give substantially the
   same curing time as the stated amount of p-toluene sulfonic acid.           The most suitable
   amount for any given temperature and combination of resole and finely divided solid may
   be readily determinable by simple experiment. Where the preferred temperature range is
   25 to 75 'C and the resole has a reactivity number of at least 10, the best results may
15 generally be obtained with the use of hardener in amounts equivalent to 3 to 10 parts of
   p-toluene sulfonic acid per 100 parts by weight of the phenol/aldehyde reaction product.
   For use with temperatures below 25 'C or resoles having a reactivity number below 10, it
   may be necessary to use more hardener.
20 By suitable control of the temperature and of the hardener concentration, the time lapse
   between adding the hardener to the resole and the composition becoming hard (referred to
   herein as the curing time) can be varied at will from a few seconds to up to an hour or even
   more, without substantially affecting the density and cell structure of the product.
25 Another factor that controls the amount of hardener required can be the nature of the
   inert solid, where present. Very few are exactly neutral and if the solid has an alkaline
   reaction, even if only very slight, more hardener may be required because of the
   tendency of the filler to neutralize it. It is therefore to be understood that the preferred
   values for hardener concentration given above do not take into account any such effect
30 of the solid. Any adjustment required because of the nature of the solid will depend on
   the amount of solid used and can be determined by simple experiment.
   The exothermic curing reaction of the resole and acid hardener leads to the formation of

                                                   - 27
   by-products, particularly aldehyde and water, which are at least partially volatilised.
   The curing reaction may be effected in the presence of a finely divided inert and
   insoluble particulate solid which is substantially uniformly dispersed throughout the
 5 mixture of resole and hardener. By an inert solid we mean that in the quantity it is used
   it does not prevent the curing reaction.
   It is believed that the finely divided particulate solid provides nuclei for the gas bubbles
   formed by the volatilisation of the small molecules, primarily formaldehyde and/or water,
10 present in the resole and/or generated by the curing action, and provides sites at which
   bubble formation is promoted, thereby assisting uniformity of pore size. The presence of
   the finely divided solid may also promote stabilisation of the individual bubbles and
   reduce the tendency of bubbles to agglomerate and eventually cause likelihood of bubble
   collapse prior to cure. To achieve the desired effect, the solid should be present in an
15 amount of not less than 5% by weight based on the weight of the resole.
   Any finely divided particulate solid that is insoluble in the reaction mixture may be
   suitable, provided it is inert. Examples of suitable particulate solids are provided above.
20 Solids having more than a slightly alkaline reaction, e.g. silicates and carbonates of alkali
   metals, are preferably avoided because of their tendency to react with the acid hardener.
   Solids such as talc, however, which have a very mild alkaline reaction, in some cases
   because of contamination with more strongly alkaline materials such as magnesite, are
   acceptable.
25
   Some materials, especially fibrous materials such as wood flour, can be absorbent and it may
   therefore be necessary to use generally larger amounts of these materials than non-fibrous
   materials, to achieve valuable foamed products.
30 The solids may preferably have a particle size in the range 0.5 to 800 microns.          If the
   particle size is too great, the cell structure of the foam tends to become undesirably coarse.
    On the other hand, at very small particle sizes, the foams obtained tend to be rather
   dense. The preferred range may be 1 to 100 microns, most preferably 2 to 40 microns.

                                               - 28
   Uniformity of cell structure appears to be encouraged by uniformity of particle size.
   Mixtures of solids may be used if desired.
   If desired, solids such as finely divided metal powders may be included which contribute
 5 to the volume of gas or vapour generated during the process. If used alone, however, it
   will be understood that the residues they leave after the gas by decomposition or
   chemical reaction satisfy the requirements of the inert and insoluble finely divided
   particulate solid required by the process of the invention.
10 Preferably, the finely divided solid may have a density that is not greatly different from
   that of the resole, so as to reduce the possibility of the finely divided solid tending to
   accumulate towards the bottom of the mixture after mixing.
   One preferred class of solids may be the hydraulic cements, e.g. gypsum and plaster,
15 but not Portland cement because of its alkalinity. These solids will tend to react with
   water present in the reaction mixture to produce a hardened skeletal structure within the
   cured resin product. Moreover, the reaction with the water is also exothermic and assists in
   the foaming and curing reaction.        Foamed products obtained using these materials
   may have particularly valuable physical properties.      Moreover, when exposed to flame
20 even for long periods of time they tend to char to a brick-like consistency that is still strong
   and capable of supporting loads. The products may also have excellent thermal insulation
   and energy absorption properties. The preferred amount of inert particulate solid may be
   from 20 to 200 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of resole.
25 Another class of solids that may be preferred because its use yields products having
   properties similar to those obtained using hydraulic cements may comprise talc and fly
   ash. The preferred amounts of these solids may also be 20 to 200 parts by weight per 100
   parts by weight of resole.
30 For the above classes of solid, the most preferred range may be 50 to 150 parts per 100
   parts of resole.
   In general, the maximum amount of solid that can be employed is controlled only by the

                                                - 29
   physical problem of incorporating it into the mixture and handling the mixture. In general
   it may be desired that the mixture is pourable but even at quite high solids
   concentrations, when the mixture is like a dough or paste and cannot be poured, foamed
   products with valuable properties can be obtained.
 5
   Other additives may be included in the foam-forming mixture.          These may include: (i)
   surfactants, such as anionic materials, e.g. sodium salts of long chain alkyl benzene
   sulfonic acids, non-ionic materials such as those based on poly(ethyleneoxide) or
   copolymers thereof, and cationic materials such as long chain quaternary ammonium
10 compounds or those based on polyacrylamides; (ii) viscosity modifiers such as alkyl
   cellulose, especially methyl cellulose; and (iii) colorants, such as dyes or pigments.
   Plasticisers for phenolic resins may also be included provided the curing and foaming
   reactions are not suppressed thereby, and polyfunctional compounds other than the
   dihydric compounds referred to above may be included which take part in the cross-linking
15 reaction which occurs in curing; e.g. di- or poly-amines, di- or poly-isocyanates, di- or poly
   carboxylic acids and aminoalcohols. Polymerisable unsaturated compounds may also be
   included, possibly together with free-radical polymerisation initiators that are activated
   during the curing reaction, e.g. acrylic monomers, so-called urethane acrylates, styrene,
   maleic acid and derivatives thereof, and mixtures thereof.                The foam-forming
20 compositions may also contain dehydrators, if desired.
   Other resins may be included e.g. as prepolymers which are cured during the foaming
   and curing reaction or as powders, emulsions or dispersions.              Examples may be
   polyacetals such as polyvinyl acetals, vinyl polymers, olefin polymers, polyesters, acrylic
25 polymers and styrene polymers,           polyurethanes    and prepolymers thereof and
   polyester prepolymers, as well as melamine resins, phenolic novolaks, etc. Conventional
   blowing agents may also be included to enhance the foaming reaction, e.g. low boiling
   organic compounds or compounds which decompose or react to produce gases.
30 The SMC may be prepared by applying a layer of a resin paste, for example a polyester
   resin paste, containing additives where appropriate, onto a bottom film carrier. Glass
   fibres as the reinforcement are then applied to the upper surface of the resin paste on
   the film carrier. A further layer of the resin paste may be applied to sandwich the

                                                 - 30
   fibres between the layers of matrix. A top film may be applied to the upper layer of the
   matrix. The resulting layered composition may be subsequently compressed using a
   series of rollers to form a sheet of the SMC between the film carriers. The material may
   be rolled onto rollers and kept for at least 3 days at a regulated temperature of for example
 5 23 to 27 'C. The resulting SMC can be compression moulded with heat. The shelf life of
   the SMC before use is usually a few weeks.
   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described, purely by way of
   example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
10
   Figures 1 to 5 show a schematic cross-sectional view of various embodiments of the
   layered composite panels of the invention (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 6A shows schematically in cross-sectional exploded view the moulding of a
15 layered composite panel of the invention having a profiled surface (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 6B shows schematically in cross-sectional view the moulding of a layered
   composite panel of the invention having a profiled surface (not drawn to scale).
20 Figure 6C shows schematically in cross-sectional view a moulded layered composite panel
   of the invention having a profiled surface (not drawn to scale).
   Figure 7A shows schematically in cross-sectional view a layered composite panel of the
   invention before impact (not drawn to scale).
25
   Figure 7B shows schematically in cross-sectional view the effect of an impact on a layered
   composite panel of the invention (not drawn to scale).
   In Figure 1, a layered composite panel is shown having a first surface layer of a sheet
30 form polymeric material (10) bonded to a first solid open-cell foam panel (12), wherein a
   cured polymeric material (14) penetrates a surface of the first solid open-cell foam panel
   (12).

                                                - 31
   In Figure 2, a second surface layer of a sheet form polymeric material (16) is also
   bonded to the first solid open-cell foam panel. Again, a cured polymeric material (18)
   penetrates a surface of the first solid open-cell foam panel (12).
 5 In Figure 3, the core comprises first and second solid open-cell foam panels (12, 20)
   respectively bonded to first and second surface layers of sheet form polymeric material
   (10, 16). A cured polymeric material (14, 18) penetrates a surface of each of the first
   and second solid open-cell foam panels (12, 20), and an elastomeric adhesive (22)
   bonds the first and second solid open-cell foam panels together. As shown, the
10 elastomeric adhesive penetrates a portion of each of the first and second solid open-cell
   foam panels.
   In Figure 4, a third solid open-cell foam panel (26) is provided between the first and
   second solid open-cell foam panels (12, 20). An elastomeric adhesive (22, 24) bonds
15 the first, second and third solid open-cell foam panels together, and penetrates a portion
   of each of the foam panels. As shown, the third solid open-cell foam panel comprises
   chips (28) of stone, ceramic, glass or other aggregate materials embedded in the solid
   open-cell foam matrix.
20 In Figure 5, a reinforcing panel (30), such as a glass-reinforced plastics material, is
   provided between the first and second solid open-cell foam panels (12, 20).
   As shown in Figures 6A to 6C, a profiled surface of the layered composite panels of the
   invention may be formed by a moulding process.
25
   Thus, a layer of sheet form polymeric material (10), preferably SMC, is applied to the
   upper surface of a mould (32).        The sheet-form polymeric material (10) is preferably
   sized so as to extend across the whole of the mould surface.         Onto the sheet form
   polymeric material (10) is applied a solid open-cell foam panel (12). The foam used is
30 advantageously:
       *    structural and has load bearing properties;
       e    frangible and can be formed under pressure;

                                                  - 32
        *  inelastic, such that it substantially retains its pressed form; and
        *  open cell such that gases may escape from the foam matrix during pressing and
           such that curable materials in the sheet form polymeric material can migrate into
           the open cells of the foam so as to form a strong bond between the sheet form
 5         polymeric material and the foam.
   Downward pressure is applied to the components as shown in Figure 6B using a
   pressure plate (34). Preferably, the layers are also heated. The foam layer (12) is
   pressed toward the lower mould surface (32), crushing the foam and moulding the lower
10 surface of the foam (12) to the shape of the mould surface (32).             The sheet form
   polymeric material (10) is also pressed between the mould surface (32) and the foam
   layer (12).   Preferably, the sheet form polymeric material is heated so as to cure the
   polymeric material.
15 Air and other gases trapped between the sheet form polymeric material (10) and the
   foam layer (12) pass through the open cell structure of the foam. The components are
   held in the mould with the application of pressure and heat for a sufficient time for the
   formation of a bond between the layers, e.g. the curing time of the SMC. The resulting
   product is then removed from the mould as shown in Figure 6C, and may subsequently
20 be bonded to a first insulating layer as described above.
   In Figures 7A and 7B, a layered composite panel is shown having two first solid open-cell
   foam panels (12) sandwiching a lower density second solid open-cell foam panel (20).
   An energy wave (36) is shown approaching the composite panel in Figure 7A, and
25 impacting on the composite panel in Figure 7B.             As shown in Figure 7B, the impact
   compresses the lower density second solid open-cell foam panel. The first solid open
   cell foam panel remains intact.

                                              - 33
   Examples
   Example 1
 5 A blast resistant panel was constructed from a core consisting of a single solid open-cell
   phenolic resin foam panel (82 mm thickness), a first surface layer of SMC (1.5 mm) and
   a second surface layer of SMC (1.5 mm). A layer of orientated glass fibre fabric (1 mm)
   was provided between the phenolic resin foam panel and the first surface layer of SMC.
   The constituent layers of the blast-resistant panel were assembled and heated and
10 pressed to cure the SMC, such that a curable material from the first surface layer of SMC
   penetrated the orientated glass fibre fabric and the surface of the phenolic resin foam,
   and a curable material from the second surface layer of SMC penetrated the opposite
   surface of the phenolic resin foam panel. The resulting panel had a thickness of 85 mm.
    A layer of Kevlar  TM webbing (a poly-aramid webbing) was fixed to the second surface
15 layer of SMC.
   Four of these panels, measuring 2.0 m in height and 0.80 m in width were assembled
   adjacent to one another in a steel frame using expansion clips, so as to form a wall of
   approximately 2.4 m in height and 4.0 m in width.
20
   An explosive charge (1800 kg of ammonium nitrate-fuel oil) was detonated at a distance of
   70 m from the wall, to produce a shock wave having an impulse of 150 psi-ms-1.
   A pressure monitor positioned behind the wall during the detonation recorded no change
25 in pressure due to the explosive blast.       In addition, no damage to the panels was
   observed.

                                               - 34
   Example 2
   A blast resistant panel was constructed from a core comprising a first solid open-cell
   phenolic resin foam panel (40 mm thickness) bonded to a reinforcing layer of glass fibre
 5 reinforced plastic (13 mm) which was itself bonded to a second solid open-cell phenolic
   resin foam panel (40 mm thickness). Thus, the core comprised a glass fibre reinforced
   plastic material bonded between two phenolic resin foam panels. A first surface layer of
   SMC (1.5 mm) and a second surface layer of SMC (1.5 mm) were bonded to the first and
   second solid open-cell foam panels, respectively. A layer of orientated glass fibre fabric
10 (1 mm) was provided between the first solid open-cell phenolic resin foam panel and the
   first surface layer of SMC.     The constituent layers of the blast-resistant panel were
   assembled, heated and pressed to cure the SMC, such that a curable material from the
   first surface layer of SMC penetrated the orientated glass fibre fabric and the surface of
   the first solid open-cell phenolic resin foam panel, and a curable material from the
15 second surface layer of SMC penetrated the opposite surface of the phenolic resin foam
   panel. The resulting panel had a thickness of 85 mm. A layer of Kevlar      TM webbing (a
   poly-aramid webbing) was fixed to the second surface layer of SMC.
   As above, four of these panels, measuring 2.0 m in height and 0.80 m in width were
20 assembled adjacent to one another in a steel frame using expansion clips, so as to form a
   wall of approximately 2.4 m in height and 4.0 m in width.
   An explosive charge (1800 kg of ammonium nitrate-fuel oil) was detonated at a distance of
   70 m from the wall, to produce a shock wave having an impulse of 150 psi-ms 1.
25
   A pressure monitor positioned behind the wall during the detonation recorded no change in
   pressure due to the explosive blast.         In addition, no damage to the panels was
   observed.

                                              - 35
   Comparative Example 3
   A wall measuring approximately 2.4 m in height, 4.0 m in width and 0.20 m in depth was
   constructed from concrete blocks of approximate dimensions 15 cm in height, 30 cm in length
 5 and 20 cm in depth and standard building mortar.
   An explosive charge (1800 kg of ammonium nitrate-fuel oil) was detonated at a distance of
   70 m from the wall, to produce a shock wave having an impulse of 150 psi-ms 1. The wall
   was totally demolished, with none of the mortar joints remaining intact and with a majority of
10 the concrete blocks fragmenting.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise"
   or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
15 specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
   further features in various embodiments of the layered composite panel.

                                          - 36
CLAIMS
1.   Use of a layered composite panel as a blast-resistant shield, wherein the layered
     composite panel comprises: (i) a first surface layer of a sheet form polymeric
     material; and (ii) a core comprising or consisting of a first solid, open-cell foam
     panel, wherein the first solid open-cell foam panel is non-elastically deformable,
     and wherein the sheet form polymeric material comprises a cured polymeric
     material which penetrates a surface of the first solid, open-cell foam panel forming
     a bond between the first surface layer and the core.
2.   Use according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form polymeric material comprises a
     matrix comprising or consisting of a thermosetting polymer resin.
3.   Use according to claim 2, wherein the thermosetting polymer resin is selected
     from:  polyester resins, vinyl ester resins, epoxy resins, phenolic resins,
     bismaleimide resins or polyimide resins.
4.   Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sheet-form
     polymeric material further comprises reinforcing fibres.
5.   Use according to claim 4, wherein the reinforcing fibres include one or more of
     carbon fibres, glass fibres, aramid fibres and/or polyethylene fibres.
6.   Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sheet-form
     polymeric material comprises sheet moulding compound (SMC).
7.   Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sheet-form
     polymeric material has a thickness in the range of from 0.5 to 25 mm.
8.   Use according to claim 7, wherein the sheet-form polymeric material has a
     thickness in the range of from 0.5 to 10 mm.
9.   Use according to claim 8, wherein the sheet-form polymeric material has a

                                         - 37
    thickness in the range of from 0.5 to 5 mm.
10. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first solid, open
    cell foam panel is selected from phenolic resin foams, polystyrene foams,
    polyurethane      foams,      polyethylene    foams,      polyvinylchloride  foams,
    polyvinylacetate foams, polyester foams polyether foams, and foam rubber.
11. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first solid, open
    cell foam panel is frangible.
12. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first solid, open
    cell foam panel includes a finely-divided particulate reinforcing material.
13. Use according to claim 12, wherein the finely-divided particulate reinforcing
    material is a metallic particulate.
14. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first solid, open
    cell foam panel further comprises chips of stone, ceramic, glass or other
    aggregate materials embedded in an open-cell foam matrix.
15. Use according to claim 14, wherein the first solid, open-cell foam panel foam
    panel has a density in the range of 100 to 500 kg-m- 3 , exclusive of any aggregate
    chips that are embedded in the open-cell foam matrix.
16. Use according to claim 15, wherein the first solid, open-cell foam panel has a
    density in the range of 120 to 250 kg-m 3, exclusive of any aggregate chips that
    are embedded in the open-cell foam matrix.
17. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first solid, open
    cell foam panel comprises a foam having an average cell diameter in the range of
    0.5 mm to 5 mm.
18. Use according to claim 17, wherein the first solid, open-cell foam panel comprises
    a foam having an average cell diameter of 1 mm to 2 mm.

                                        -38
19. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sheet-form
    polymeric material penetrates the solid, open-cell foam to a depth which is at least
    equivalent to the average cell diameter of the foam.
20. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sheet-form
    polymeric material penetrates the solid, open-cell foam to a depth of at least 0.5
    mm.
21. Use according to claim 20, wherein the sheet-form polymeric material penetrates
    the solid, open-cell foam to a depth of at least 2.0 mm.
22. Use according to Claim 21, wherein the sheet-form polymeric material penetrates
    the solid, open-cell foam to a depth of 3.0 mm.
23. Use according to any preceding claim, wherein the core comprises one or more
    reinforcing layers.
24. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the layered composite
    panel further comprises (iii) a second surface layer of a sheet form polymeric
    material, and wherein the core is disposed between the first and second surface
    layers of sheet-form polymeric material.
25. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the layered composite
    panel has a profiled surface.
26. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first surface layer
    of sheet-form polymeric material is bonded to a surface effect material.
27. Use according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the core has a
    thickness in the range of from 20 to 500 mm.

<removed-date>
              Editorial Note
                <removed-apn>
                 There are only
<removed-apn>
                   4 pages of
                   Drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
