                                           ABSTRACT
               A gaming machine has a display and a game controller arranged to control
   images of symbols displayed on the display. The game controller is arranged to play a
   game wherein at least one random event is caused to be displayed on the display means
 5 and, if a predefined winning event occurs, the machine awards a prize. The game
   comprises a bonus feature in which at least one meter, having a plurality of number
   positions, is displayed on the display and, by a predetermined selection process, a
   number from a set of numbers is selected and associated with at least one number
   position of the at least one meter. A decision as to which number position of the at least
10 one meter is to be filled by which of the numbers from the set is made by the game
   controller and completion of filling of the number positions of the at least one meter
   provides an indication of a prize won by a player.
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                       1
                                    Gaming Machine with prize building feature
   Field of the Invention
               This invention relates to a gaming machine. More particularly, the invention
   relates to a gaming machine and to an improvement to a game played on such a gaming
 5 machine.
   Background to the Invention
               Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular games
   and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop innovative
10 game features which add interest to the games. In so doing, it is hoped to keep players
   amused and therefore willing to continue playing the game as well as to attract new
   players.
               Also, with the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market, there is
   intense competition between manufacturers to supply various existing and new venues.
15 When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue will often pay
   close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons. Therefore, gaming
   machine manufacturers are keen to devise games and/or game features which are
   popular with the players as a mechanism for improving sales, retaining customers and
   attracting new customers.
20
   Summary of the Invention
   According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming machine having
   a display and a game controller arranged to control images of symbols displayed on the
   display, wherein the game controller is configured to play a game comprising a base
25 game in which at least one random event is caused to be displayed on the display and, if
   a predefined winning event occurs, the gaming machine awards a prize, wherein a
   player of the gaming machine stakes a wager on each play of the base game, wherein
   the gaming machine is further configured to provide a bonus game that is triggered
   during play of the base game and in which:
30             the game controller, in a random selection process, makes a selection of a
   plurality of meters, each selected meter comprising a plurality of number positions,
   wherein the random selection process results in different instances of the bonus game,
   each instance having a different number of selected meters, each selected meter having
   a different number of number positions, the plurality of number positions being blank
35 when the selection process is made, the game controller allocating a number to each of
   the number positions subsequent to making the selection;
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                       2
               each selected meter is displayed on the display;
               numbers from a set of numbers are selected during play of the bonus game, and
   if a said selected number matches a number associated with a number position of one or
   more of the selected meters, then the game controller determines that number position
 5 as being filled, wherein once a said selected number is selected, irrespective of whether
   said selected number matches a number associated with a number position, said
   selected number is removed from the set of numbers such that it cannot be subsequently
   selected; and
               when the number positions of at least one of the selected meters have been
10 filled, the game controller concludes the bonus game and causes the gaming machine to
   award a prize, wherein the awarded prize is dependent on a value indicated by the
   sequence formed by the number positions of the at least one selected meter that has
   been filled.
               A gaming apparatus is to be understood to include apparatus that does not
15 require the wagering of a stake in order to play the game and further includes apparatus
   which is connectable to a network.
               In one version of this embodiment of the invention, the selected number may be
   associated with the relevant number position/s of the sub-meter/s by being inserted into
   the number position/s of the sub-meter/s.
20             The sub-meters may be displayed on the display together with the set of
   numbers. The set of numbers may be from zero to nine or a subset thereof.
               When a number has been selected by the player, that number may be removed
   from the set of numbers so that it cannot be reselected.
               It will be appreciated that it is possible for the number positions of more than
25 one sub-meter to be completed simultaneously especially where the sub-meters are of
   differing number position lengths.
               The prize awarded to the player may be the total amount shown on the, or each,
   completed sub-meter of the meter, multiplied by a wager of the triggering base game.
               In an embodiment of the invention, a plurality of sets of numbers may be
30 provided and the game controller may randomly select one of the sets of numbers. Each
   set of numbers may be from zero to nine or a subset of the series of numbers from zero
   to nine.
               To provide an interesting appearance to the feature, the selected set of numbers
   may be perceived to be in a receptacle. The receptacle may be transparent The
35 receptacle may be "shaken" or otherwise manipulated so that the appearance of
   selecting one of the numbers is imparted to the player. Instead, the receptacle may be
   opaque and the selected set of numbers may be displayed alongside or above the
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                    3
    receptacle. As a number is dispensed from the receptacle, it is removed from the
    displayed set of numbers.
                The selection of the numbers may be made by the game controller and, once the
    game controller has selected a number, the selected number is placed in one of the
  5 number positions in the meter. In addition, the selection of the number position in
    which the number is to be placed may be made by the game controller. In this
    embodiment of the invention, the selected numbers may be placed in the meter from the
    right number position to the left number position, consecutively.
                When a number has been selected by the game controller from the receptacle, it
10  may, in effect, be removed from the receptacle so that it cannot be re-selected.
                Regardless of the embodiment of the invention, the player may have to wager an
    additional stake in order to be eligible for the bonus feature. The bonus feature may be
    triggered randomly. When the bonus feature is triggered, a number of bonus features
    may be offered to the player, two of which may be the embodiments of the bonus
is  feature of the invention, as described above. Instead of the additional stake, the bonus
    feature may be triggered by the occurrence of a trigger condition without the wagering
    of an additional stake. For example, the bonus feature may be triggered by the
    occurrence of a predetermined combination of symbols in a base game. The
    predetermined combination of symbols may be a predetermined number of scatter
20  symbols in the base game.
                According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
    operating a gaming machine having a display and a game controller arranged to control
    images displayed on the display, wherein the game controller is configured to play a
    game wherein at least one random event is caused to be displayed on the display and, if
25  a predefined winning event occurs, the gaming machine awards a prize, the method
    comprising:
                in a bonus feature of the game, using the gaming machine to select and display a
    plurality of meters, each selected meter comprising a plurality of number positions each
    associated with a number, wherein the selected meters are selected by the game
30  controller of the gaming machine in a random selection process so that different
    instances of the bonus feature display a different number of meters each selected meter
    having a different number of number positions, the plurality of number positions being
    blank when the random selection process makes the selection;
                allocating a number to each of the number positions subsequent to making the
35  selection;
    10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                     4
               by a selection process, selecting a number from a set of numbers and associating
   the selected number with at least one number position of the selected meters so as to fill
   that number position;
               removing the selected number from the set of numbers irrespective of whether
 5 said selected number matches a number associated with a number position;
               repeating the selection process until at least one of the selected meters has been
   completed by the filling of all of the number positions of that meter; and
               awarding a prize having a value which is determined dependent on a value
   indicated by the at least one completed meter. Further, the method may include
10 displaying the selectable numbers on the display.
               Further, the method may include awarding as the prize the total amount shown
   on the, or each, completed sub-meter of the meter, multiplied by a wager of the
   triggering base game.
               In another embodiment of the invention, the method may include providing a
15 plurality of sets of numbers and randomly selecting one of the sets of numbers.
               The player may have to wager an additional stake in order to be eligible for the
   bonus feature.
   Brief Description of the Drawin2s
20             The invention is now described by way of example with reference to the
   accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
               Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a gaming machine, in accordance with the
   invention;
               Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machine;
25             Figure 3 shows a screen display of a first version of a first embodiment of a
   bonus feature of a game played on the gaming machine of Figure 1;
               Figures 4-8 show screen displays of various stages in the playing of the first
   version of the first embodiment of the bonus feature;
               Figure 9 shows a modification to the first version of the first embodiment of the
30 bonus feature;
               Figure 10 shows an initial screen display of a second embodiment of a bonus
   feature of a game played on the gaming machine of Figure 1;
               Figures 11-13 show screen displays of various stages in the playing of the
   second embodiment of the bonus feature; and
35             Figures 14-17 show screen displays of various stages in the playing of a second
   version of the first embodiment of the bonus feature.
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                     5
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
               In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 generally designates a gaming machine,
   including a game, in accordance with the invention. The machine 10 includes a console
   12 having a display means in the form of a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is
 5 played, in use. The video display unit 14 may be implemented as a cathode ray screen
   device, a liquid crystal display, a plasma screen, or the like. The game 16 has a base
   game which is a spinning reel game that simulates the rotation of a number of spinning
   reels 18. A midtrim 20 of the machine 10 houses a keypad 22 for enabling a player to
   play the game 16. The midtrim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a
io coin input chute 24.1 and a bill collector 24.2.
               The machine 10 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is carried. The
   artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc.
               A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   machine 10.
15             Referring to Figure 2 of the drawings, a control means or control circuit 32 is
   illustrated. A program which implements the game and user interface is run on a
   processor 34 of the control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a controller 36
   that drives the screen of the video display unit 14 and that receives input signals from
   sensors 38. The sensors 38 include sensors associated with the bank 22 of buttons and
20 touch sensors mounted in the screen of the video display unit 14. The controller 36 also
   receives input pulses from the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a player has
   provided sufficient credit to commence playing. The mechanism 24 may, instead of the
   coin input chute 24.1 or the bill collector 24.2, or in addition thereto, be a credit card
   reader (not shown) or any other type of validation device.
25             Finally, the controller 36 drives a payout mechanism 40 which, for example,
   may be a coin hopper for feeding coins to the coin tray 30 to make a pay out to a player
   when the player wishes to redeem his or her credit.
               The game 16, in accordance with the invention, includes a bonus feature that
   follows the base game. To be eligible for the bonus feature, the player may have to
30 wager an additional stake, for example, an additional 5 credits over and above the
   number of credits bet per line and the number of lines bet. Instead, the bonus feature
   may be a no-cost feature and may be triggered by other triggering conditions. For
   example, the occurrence of a combination of scatter symbols in the underlying base
   game of the game 16 may trigger the bonus feature, the bonus feature may be triggered
35 randomly, by a central controller, or the like.
               Regardless of how the bonus feature is triggered, when the bonus feature is
   awarded, the player may be offered a plurality of bonus features two of which are in
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                      6
   accordance with the invention and which are described below with reference firstly to
   Figures 3-9 of the drawings and Figures 14-17 of the drawings and, secondly, with
   reference to Figures 10-13 of the drawings.
               Referring to Figures 3-9, a first version of a first embodiment of the bonus
 5 feature, in accordance with the invention is described. When the bonus feature is
   awarded and selected by the player, an initial screen display 50 is displayed on the
   screen of the video display unit 14. The screen display 50 displays a meter 52 and a set
   of numbers 54. The meter 52 comprises a plurality of sub-meters 56, 58, 60 and 62,
   each of which has a plurality of number positions 64. Initially, all the number positions
10 64 for each of the sub-meters 56-62 are blank.
               The set of numbers 54 is arranged behind a touch-sensitive membrane on the
   screen of the VDU 14. The player is offered the opportunity of selecting any one of the
   numbers in the set of numbers 54 by touching the selected number of the set 54 on the
   screen of the VDU 14.
15             As shown in Figure 4 of the drawings, the player initially selects number "8".
   The controller 34 has predetermined which number positions 64 of the sub-meters 5662
   contain which numbers. There are two occurrences of the number "8", one in submeter
   58 and the other in sub-meter 60. Once a number has been selected by the player from
   the set of numbers 54, it is removed from the set 54.
20             The player then selects the number "3" from the set of numbers 54. Only a
   single occurrence of the number "3" has been preselected by the controller 34 to occur
   in the meter 52 being in sub-meter 56. That position in sub-meter 56 is filled by the
   number "3" as illustrated in Figure 5 of the drawings.
               As shown in Figure 6 of the drawings, the following selection made by the
25 player is the number "5". Once again, there is only a single occurrence of a number
   position 64 having the number "5". That position 64 is, once again, in the sub-meter 56
   of the meter 52 and is filled by the number 5.
               With reference to Figure 7 of the drawings, the player then selects number "7"
   from the set of numbers 54 by touching the screen of the VDU 14. There are two
30 occurrences of number positions 64 having the number "7" associated with them, being
   in sub-meters 58 and 62 and these positions 64 are each filled with the number "7".
               Finally, the player selects the number "2" from the set of numbers 54. There are
   three occurrences of number positions 64 of the meter 52 having the number "2"
   associated with them. The number "2" is therefore inserted into these number positions
35 64 of the meter 52 as shown in Figure 8 of the drawings.
               As two of the sub-meters, 58 and 62 have had all their number positions 64
   filled, the bonus feature is regarded as concluded and the player is awarded a bonus
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                      7
   prize being the sum of the amounts in the sub-meters 58 and 62. Thus, in the example
   illustrated, the player is awarded a bonus prize of 800 credits.
               Figure 9 shows another example of the first variation of the first embodiment of
   the invention. Whereas the meter 52 in the example shown in Figures 3-8 had four
 5 submeters, the meter 52 in the example shown in Figure 9 of the drawings has five
   submeters 56, 58, 60, 62 and 66.
               It is to be noted that the controller 34 contains a set of meters 52, each meter 52
   in the set having different sub-meters, with some of the sub-meters being different in 25
   size from other sub-meters, and different numbers of sub-meters. When the bonus
10 feature is triggered, one of the meters 52 is randomly selected by the controller 34. Each
   number position 64 of each of the sub-meters is allocated a number from the range of
   numbers, 0 to 9, but the numbers allocated to the number positions 64 of the sub-meters
   of the selected meter 52 are not revealed to the player.
               Once the bonus prize has been awarded, the controller 34 may reveal to the
15 player what numbers were in the remaining number positions 64 which had not been
   filled. The remaining numbers could be shown in a different colour or shaded
   differently to differentiate between those and the numbers which had been selected by
   the player.
               Referring now to Figures 14-17 of the drawings, a second version of the first
20 embodiment of the invention is illustrated. With reference to Figures 3 to 9 of the
   drawings, like reference numerals refer to like parts, unless otherwise specified.
               In this embodiment of the invention, the number list 54 has its numbers hidden
   behind concealing elements 80. In keeping with the theme of the bonus feature, the
   concealing elements 80 are elements which represent luck such as, for example, a four
25 leaf clover.
               In the example illustrated, the meter 52 comprises four sub-meters 56, 58, 60
   and 62. The sub-meters 56 and 58 have three number positions 64 which are active and
   the sub-meters 60 and 62 have two number positions 64 which are active. It will be
   noted from the display 50 that the meter 52 could comprise up to six sub-meters, each
30 of which has four number positions 64 associated with them.
               Upon commencement of the bonus feature, the game controller 34 pre-selects
   the number of sub-meters constituting the meter 52 and the quantity of number
   positions 64 constituting each sub-meter. In addition, the game controller 34 inserts
   numbers selected from the set of numbers from 0 to 9 into the selected number position
35 64. All of the numbers allocated to the number positions 64 of the meter 52 are shown,
   at commencement of the bonus feature, in a non-highlighted manner.
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                    8
               A message 82 appears on the display 50 at the start of the bonus feature
   instructing the player to touch one of the four leaf clovers 80. As indicated above, the
   VDU 14 is covered by a touch-sensitive membrane and when the four leaf clover 80 is
   touched, it is removed to reveal a number beneath it.
 5             Figure 15 shows the situation after the player has touched two of the four leaf
   clovers 80 covering the set of numbers 54. Assuming the four leaf clover 80 covering
   the number "8"was removed first, because the number 8 does not appear at any number
   position 64 in the meter 52, none of the numbers in the number positions 64 is
   highlighted.
10             After the second four leaf clover 80 has been removed by being touched, it
   reveals the number "9". The sub-meter 58 has the number "9" at two number positions
   64. Both of these number positions 64 are then changed into a highlighted
   configuration.
               Figure 16 shows the situation after three further four leaf clovers 80 have been
15 touched. Of the numbers revealed, only the number "2" appears at number positions 64
   in the sub-meters 60 and 62 of the meter 52. Once again, the numbers at these number
   positions 64 are changed to a highlighted configuration.
               At this stage, because no sub-meter 56 has had all the numbers at its number
   positions 64 highlighted, the bonus feature continues.
20             In a subsequent selection by the player (Figure 17), the number "7" is revealed.
   This causes the number "7" at the first number position of the sub-meter 62 to be
   highlighted.
               Because all the number positions of the sub-meter 62 have now been completed,
   the bonus feature is regarded as concluded. The player is awarded, as a prize, the
25 number of credits reflected in the sub-meter 62. Thus, a win meter 84 on the display 50
   is credited with 72 credits.
               The remaining four leaf clovers 80 are then removed to reveal the positions of
   the remaining, non-selected numbers in the set of numbers 54. The non-selected
   numbers are shown in the set of numbers 54 in a way that distinguishes them from the
30 numbers that had been revealed by the actions of the player, e.g. the non-selected
   numbers are shown in a non-highlighted fashion in the set of numbers 54. In this way,
   the player can readily determine which of the numbers were not selected.
               Referring now to Figures 10-13 of the drawings, a second embodiment of the
   bonus feature is described. In this embodiment of the invention, a screen display 70 is
35 displayed on the screen of the VDU 14 when the bonus feature is triggered. The screen
   display 70 initially shows a receptacle 72 and a meter 74 arranged below the receptacle
   72, the meter 74 having three empty number positions 76.
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                       9
               The receptacle 72 is, for example, a representation of a transparent barrel which,
   in use, is animated to rotate to select a number from a set of numbers contained in the
   barrel 72.
               When the bonus feature is triggered, the controller 34 selects one of a plurality
 5 of sets of numbers. For example, the controller 34 could contain the following sets of
   numbers:
   1. Numbers 0,1,2,3,4.
   2. Numbers 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9.
   3. Numbers 1,2,3,4,5.
i0 4. Numbers 5,6,7,8,9.
   5. Numbers 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9.
               It is assumed, in this case, that the third set of numbers has been selected by the
   game controller 34. It is to be noted that the selection of a set of numbers occurs
   randomly. The selected set of numbers is then displayed in the barrel 72 as shown in
15 Figure 10 of the drawings.
               An animation occurs of the barrel 72 being rotated, shaken or otherwise
   manipulated until a number "drops" from the barrel 72. In Figure 11 of the drawings,
   the first number to drop from the barrel 72 is the number "I"which is placed in the right
   number position 76 of the meter 74.
20             The barrel 72 is then again shaken, rotated or otherwise manipulated until the
   following number is ejected from the barrel 72. As shown in Figure 12 of the drawings
   it is assumed that the following number is the number "4" which is placed in the middle
   number position 76 of the meter 74.
               Finally, the number "5"is ejected from the barrel 72 and is placed in the left
25 number position 76 of the meter 74 as shown in Figure 13 of the drawings. The player
   is accordingly awarded a prize of 541 credits.
               In a variation of this embodiment (not shown), instead of the barrel 72 being
   transparent with the numbers visible therethrough, the barrel 72 is opaque with the
   selected set of numbers being displayed above, alongside or below the barrel 72. As a
30 number is selected from the set, it is removed from the displayed set of numbers.
               Hence, it is an advantage of the invention that a bonus feature is provided
   which, in an attractive and entertaining manner, awards a bonus prize to a player. The
   bonus features comprise various sets of numbers and various sets of meters so that the
   chance of players becoming familiar with the bonus features and, in so doing losing
35 interest or being in a position to influence an outcome, is reduced.
               It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
   and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                          10
embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
illustrative and not restrictive.
10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                    11
    THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.           A gaming machine having a display and a game controller arranged to control
    images of symbols displayed on the display, wherein the game controller is configured
  5 to play a game comprising a base game in which at least one random event is caused to
    be displayed on the display and, if a predefined winning event occurs, the gaming
    machine awards a prize, wherein a player of the gaming machine stakes a wager on
    each play of the base game, wherein the gaming machine is further configured to
    provide a bonus game that is triggered during play of the base game and in which:
10              the game controller, in a random selection process, makes a selection of a
    plurality of meters, each selected meter comprising a plurality of number positions,
    wherein the random selection process results in different instances of the bonus game,
    each instance having a different number of selected meters, each selected meter having
    a different number of number positions, the plurality of number positions being blank
is  when the selection process is made, the game controller allocating a number to each of
    the number positions subsequent to making the selection;
                each selected meter is displayed on the display;
                numbers from a set of numbers are selected during play of the bonus game, and
    if a said selected number matches a number associated with a number position of one or
20  more of the selected meters, then the game controller determines that number position
    as being filled, wherein once a said selected number is selected, irrespective of whether
    said selected number matches a number associated with a number position, said
    selected number is removed from the set of numbers such that it cannot be subsequently
    selected; and
25              when the number positions of at least one of the selected meters have been
    filled, the game controller concludes the bonus game and causes the gaming machine to
    award a prize, wherein the awarded prize is dependent on a value indicated by the
    sequence formed by the number positions of the at least one selected meter that has
    been filled.
30  2.          The gaming machine of claim 1, wherein the numbers that are associated with
    the number positions of the meter are initially not displayed on the selected meters and
    the set of numbers are displayed at an available number position on the display, and
    wherein the process of selecting numbers from the set of numbers is completed by the
    player selecting one of the numbers from the set of numbers shown at the available
35  number position of the display, and wherein the gaming machine continues to receive
    number selections from the player until all the number positions of at least one of the
    10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                   12
   meters has been filled, wherein if all number positions of two or more selected meters
   are filled as a result of a selection from the set of numbers by the player, the prize
   awarded by the gaming machine is dependent on the sum of the values indicated by the
   two or more selected meters.
 5
   3.          The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the awarded
   prize comprises a prize value shown on one or more completed meters, multiplied by
   the wager that was staked in the play of the base game that resulted in the triggering of
   the bonus game.
10
   4.          The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the game
   controller randomly selects from one of the plurality of sets of numbers.
   5.          The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the selection
15 of the number position in which the number is to be placed is made by the game
   controller.
   6.          The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, including in memory a
   definition of a plurality of sets of meters, wherein at least two of the sets of meters
20 comprise a different number of meters and meters with a different number of number
   positions, wherein when the game controller in a random selection process meters a
   selection of a plurality of meters, the game controller selects are of the sets of meters.
   7.          A method of operating a gaming machine having a display and a game
   controller arranged to control images displayed on the display, wherein the game
25 controller is configured to play a game wherein at least one random event is caused to
   be displayed on the display and, if a predefined winning event occurs, the gaming
   machine awards a prize, the method comprising:
               in a bonus feature of the game, using the gaming machine to select and display a
   plurality of meters, each selected meter comprising a plurality of number positions each
30 associated with a number, wherein the selected meters are selected by the game
   controller of the gaming machine in a random selection process so that different
   instances of the bonus feature display a different number of meters each selected meter
   having a different number of number positions, the plurality of number positions being
   blank when the random selection process makes the selection;
35             allocating a number to each of the number positions subsequent to making the
   selection;
   10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

                                                     13
                by a selection process, selecting a number from a set of numbers and associating
    the selected number with at least one number position of the selected meters so as to fill
    that number position,
                removing the selected number from the set of numbers irrespective of whether
  5 said selected number matches a number associated with a number position;
                repeating the selection process until at least one of the selected meters has been
    completed by the filling of all of the number positions of that meter; and
                awarding a prize having a value which is determined dependent on a value
    indicated by the at least one completed meter.
10
    8.          The method of claim 7, comprising awarding the indicated value multiplied by a
    wager of the game.
    9.          The method of claim 7 or claim 8, comprising providing a plurality of sets of
15  numbers to the gaming machine and randomly selecting one of the sets of numbers for
    use in filling the number positions of the plurality of meters.
    10.         The method of any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the game controller is
    configured to randomly select from the set of numbers.
    10274289_1(GHMaters) P87997.AU.3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
