                                      ABSTRACT
      A pharmaceutical       composition   for treating   eczema  is  disclosed.  The
pharmaceutical composition includes, by weight, 2 to 6 parts of Dried Rhizoma
Zingiberis Officinalis, 2 to 6 parts of Paeonia Lactiflora, 1 to 4 parts of Fructus
Amomi, 0.5 to 3 parts of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 0.5 to 3 parts of Inula helenium,
0.5 to 3 parts of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 0.5 to 3 parts of Rhizoma Dioscoreae.
The components of the pharmaceutical composition synergistically cooperate to clear
and disinhibit the liver and gallbladder and clear away damp heat from the body. The
pharmaceutical composition can be used to treat skin eczema symptoms caused by
metabolic disorders of the liver and gallbladder functions. A method for preparing the
pharmaceutical composition is also disclosed.
                                           28

                            Australian Patents Act 1990
              ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                             STANDARD PATENT
                                      Invention Title
  Pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema and method for preparation thereof
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
                           of performing it known to me/us:-

TECHNICAL FIELD
        The present invention relates to compound traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)
preparations and, in particular, to a pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema
and a method for preparing such a pharmaceutical composition.
BACKGROUND
        Eczema, also known as atopic eczema or atopic dermatitis, is an inflammatory,
allergic skin disease commonly and frequently encountered in dermatology. Clinically,
eczema is mainly manifested as recurrent itchiness and symmetrically distributed
pleomorphic lesions and characterized in symmetrically distributed pleomorphic skin
lesions, severe itchiness, a tendency to oozing, recurrence, refractoriness, proneness to
chronicity and persistence, etc. Histological characteristics include edema between
epidermal cells, accompanied by varying degrees of acanthosis and lymphohistiocytic
infiltration around superficial vessels.
        At present, the pathogenesis of eczema has not yet been fully elucidated in
Western medicine. Well-accepted possible causes mainly include allergies, skin barrier
defects, pathogenic microbial colonization, inflammatory mediator release, genetic
polymorphisms or mutations and other environmental factors. Eczema can be specified
as acute, sub-acute or chronic, depending upon the appearance of lesions and may
induce Staphylococcus aureus skin infections, herpes simplex virus infections, warts,
infectious plaques or other conditions.
        Eczema can endanger the lives and health of patients. Patients with acute or
chronic eczema often suffer from erosions caused by scratching, which are prone to
secondary infections that may lead to pustules and local swollen lymph nodes. Chronic
eczema can lead to thickened, moss-like, local skin lesions with a protracted course.
                                            la

Some patients may develop life-threatening systemic diseases such as serious liver and
kidney damage due to excessive medication throughout the protracted course of
treatment.
       The impact of eczema on patients is not limited to the physical pain and
suffering, but more lies in degrading their quality of life (QOL). Rash and severe
itching may inhibit the patient's normal life and work and lead to lack of sleep.
Generally, a patient with eczema has a probability of 60% of sleep disorders and even
higher during onset of the disease. Another reason for QOL degradation due to eczema
is dietary restrictions. Other consequences of eczema include listlessness, irritability
and other mental disorders resulting from prolonged treatment, impaired appearance
due to papules, papules, blisters, oozing, erosions, scalp scabs, pigmentation of eczema
lesions, and psychological pressures and poor mental health because of some
characteristics of the disease such as unidentifiable causes and allergens, proneness to
recurrence and a protracted course.
       In Western medicine, eczema is typically treated following the principles of
controlling skin inflammation, relieving itching, delaying and mitigating progression,
recovering or strengthening the skin barrier function and improving and enhancing
patient QOL based on patients' individual needs while comprehensively considering
their age, severity, lesion site, infection, past treatment and other conditions.
       In general, the treatment is medical or surgical and involves the use of H1
receptor antagonists (antihistamines), non-specific anti-allergic drugs, corticosteroids,
immunomodulators or antibiotics. Most of these drugs, however, cannot fundamentally
eradicate the disease but can only temporarily suppress its onset and relieve its
symptoms at the cost of many side effects, for example, lethargy, drowsiness, dry
mouth, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, urinary retention and so on arising from the
                                               2

use of antihistamines. Use of corticosteroids can cause obesity, hirsutism, acnes,
hyperglycemia,     hypertension,    hypernatremia,    edema,    hypokalemia,    menstrual
disorders, osteoporosis, aseptic bone necrosis, gastric and duodenal ulcers and other
complications, addiction and exacerbation after withdrawal. Clinically, there are many
patients who fear the use of hormones. In such cases, the treatment will be affected
due to a limited choice of mediations and poor patient compliance.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       In view of the above-discussed shortcomings of Western medicine in the
treatment of eczema, the present invention discloses a pharmaceutical composition for
treating eczema. Also disclosed is a method for preparing the pharmaceutical
composition, which allows easy preparation of the pharmaceutical composition with
simple conditions and is safe, reliable and suitable for industrial production.
       The pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, includes, by weight, 2 to 6
parts of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 2 to 6 parts of Paeonia Lactiflora, 1 to 4
parts of Fructus Amomi, 0.5 to 3 parts of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 0.5 to 3 parts of
Inula helenium, 0.5 to 3 parts of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 0.5 to 3 parts of Rhizoma
Dioscoreae.
       Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition may include, by weight, 2 to 4 parts
of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 2 to 4 parts of Paeonia Lactiflora, 1 to 3 parts
of Fructus Amomi, 0.5 to 2 parts of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 0.5 to 2 parts of
Inula helenium, 0.5 to 2 parts of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 0.5 to 2 parts of Rhizoma
Dioscoreae.
       More preferably, the pharmaceutical composition may include, by weight, 3
parts of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 3 parts of Paeonia Lactiflora, 2 parts of
                                             3

Fructus Amomi, 1 part of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 1 part of Inula helenium, 1 part
of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 1 part of Rhizoma Dioscoreae.
       In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition may include, in every 12 g
of the pharmaceutical composition, 3 g of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 3 g of
Paeonia Lactiflora, 2 g of Fructus Amomi, 1 g of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 1 g of
Inula helenium, 1 g of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 1 g of Rhizoma Dioscoreae.
       In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema
may further include, by weight, 2 to 6 parts of Fructus Aurantii Immaturus, 0.5 to 3
parts of Radix Scutellariae Bai-calensis and 0.5 to 3 parts of Caulis Bambusae in
Taeniam.
       Further, the pharmaceutical composition may assume a form of oral solutions,
tablets, capsules, pills granules or dropping pills.
       The method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition includes the steps of:
       step A) subjecting a first group of medicine materials including Dried Rhizoma
Zingiberis Officinalis, Fructus Amomi, Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, and Inula
helenium to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1-2 hours and using a
50%-80% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which has a number of units of
volume (L) 6 times a number of units of a total weight (Kg) of the first group of
medicine materials;
       step B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes to obtain a first filtrate and concentrating the first filtrate under a
reduced pressure, concurrently with recovery of the ethanol solutions, until relative
density of the concentrated first filtrate comes to 1.05-1.15;
       step C) subjecting a second group of medicine materials including Paeonia
Lactiflora, Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and Rhizoma Dioscoreae to three boiling processes
                                              4

each lasting for 1-2 hours and using water with a weight 8-12 times a total weight of
the second group of medicine materials as a boil medium;
       step D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes to
obtain a second filtrate, mixing the second filtrate with the first filtrate obtained from
step B to obtain a first mixture, concentrating the first mixture until a weight of the
first mixture becomes 1-3 times a total weight of the first and second groups of
medicine materials and keeping the concentrated first mixture at room temperature for
24 hours; and
       step E) filtering and centrifuging a supernatant of the concentrated first mixture
to obtain a centrifugate, concentrating the centrifugate into an extract with a relative
density of 1.10-1.35,      and drying the extract to produce the pharmaceutical
composition.
       Optionally, the method may further include a step of: step F) homogeneously
mixing the pharmaceutical composition with starch to obtain a second mixture,
forming the second mixture into granules and filling the granules in packs.
       Preferably, in step B, the first filtrate is concentrated at 75 *C until the relative
density of the concentrated first filtrate comes to 1.05-1.15.
       Preferably, in step E, the centrifugate may be concentrated at 75 *C into the
extract with a relative density of 1.10-1.35, wherein the extract is dried with
microwaves to produce the pharmaceutical composition.
       Optionally, in step A, the first group of medicine materials may further include 2
to 6 parts of Fructus Aurantii Immaturus and 0.5 to 3 parts of Radix Scutellariae
Bai-calensis; and in step C, the second group of medicine materials may further
include 0.5 to 3 parts of Caulis Bambusae in Taeniam.
       Compared with the prior art, the invention has the advantages as follows:
                                               5

       Clinical trials have found that the seven Chinese medicine (TCM) materials in
the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, i.e., Dried Rhizoma
Zingiberis    Officinalis,  Paeonia Lactiflora, Fructus     Amomi,     Semen Alpiniae
Katsumadai, Inula helenium, Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and Rhizoma Dioscoreae,
synergistically cooperate to clear and disinhibit the liver and gallbladder and clear
away damp heat from the body, and that the pharmaceutical composition can be used
to treat skin eczema symptoms, in particular in infants, young children and adolescents,
caused by metabolic disorders of the liver and gallbladder functions, transformation of
enduring depression into heat and disorders of transportation and transformation, such
as skin redness, rash, edema, itching and dry skin. The pharmaceutical composition
treats the disease from its internal root causes by regulating the liver and gallbladder
functions and purging stagnant damp heat in the body. It is capable of relieving itching,
clearing dampness and heart and facilitating self-healing of skin. In addition, the
pharmaceutical composition is safe, has a good effect of improving eczema and solves
the prior-art problems of many side effects, proneness to addiction, exacerbation after
withdrawal, temporary suppression rather than eradication, severe liver or kidney
damage caused by long-term medication, etc.
       Further, the method allows easy preparation of the pharmaceutical composition
with simple conditions and is environmental friendly, cost-effective, efficient, free of
toxicity. Hence, it has a wide application foreground.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
       While specific embodiments of the present invention are set forth below, the
invention is not limited to these embodiments. The advantages and features of the
present invention will become more apparent from the following description and the
                                             6

appended claims.
       The present invention proposes a pharmaceutical composition for treating
eczema, including, by weight, 2 to 6 parts of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis
(Gan Jiang), 2 to 6 parts of Paeonia Lactiflora (Chi Shao), 1 to 4 parts of Fructus
Amomi (Sha Ren), 0.5 to 3 parts of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai (Cao Dou Kou), 0.5
to 3 parts of Inula helenium (Tu Mu Xiang), 0.5 to 3 parts of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei
(Da Huang) and 0.5 to 3 parts of Rhizoma Dioscoreae (Shan Yao). Such a
pharmaceutical composition is safe and has a good effect of improving eczema. It
solves the prior-art problems of many side effects, proneness to addiction,
exacerbation after withdrawal, temporary suppression rather than eradication, severe
liver or kidney damage caused by long-term medication, etc.
       Gan Jiang is pungent in flavor and warm in nature. It interacts with the Spleen,
Stomach, Kidney, Heart and Lung meridians to warm the spleen and stomach, restore
devastated Yang, unblock channels and warm the lung to transform thin mucus. Chi
Shao is bitter in flavor and slightly cold in nature. It interacts with the Liver meridian
to clear heat, cool blood, dissipate blood stasis and relieve pain. Sha Ren is pungent in
flavor and warm in nature. It interacts with the Spleen, Stomach and Kidney meridians
to resolve dampness, whet the appetite, warm the spleen, control diarrhea, regulate the
flow of Qi and prevent miscarriage. Cao Dou Kou is pungent in flavor and warm in
nature. It interacts with the Spleen and Stomach meridians to dry dampness, promote
the circulation of Qi, warm the spleen and stomach and relieve nausea. Tu Mu Xiang is
pungent and bitter in flavor and warm in nature. It interacts with the Liver and Spleen
meridians to tonify spleen and stomach, promote the circulation of Qi, relieve pain and
prevent miscarriage. Da Huang is bitter in flavor and cold in nature. It interacts with
the Spleen, Stomach, Large Intestine, Liver and Pericardium meridians to remove
                                             7

accumulation with purgation, clear heat and drain fire. Shan Yao is sweet in flavor and
mild in nature. It interacts with the Spleen, Lung and Kidney meridians to nourish the
spleen, stomach, lung and kidney, generate fluids and arrest seminal emission.
       Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition may include, by weight, 2 to 4 parts
of Gan Jiang, 2 to 4 parts of Chi Shao, 1 to 3 parts of Sha Ren, 0.5 to 2 parts of Cao
Dou Kou, 0.5 to 2 parts of Tu Mu Xiang, 0.5 to 2 parts of Da Huang and 0.5 to 2 parts
of Shan Yao. Such a pharmaceutical composition is safe and has a good effect of
improving eczema.
       Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition may include, by weight, 3 parts of
Gan Jiang, 3 parts of Chi Shao, 2 parts of Sha Ren, 1 part of Cao Dou Kou, 1 part of
Tu Mu Xiang, 1 part of Da Huang and 1 part of Shan Yao. Such a pharmaceutical
composition is safe and has a better effect of improving eczema.
       Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition may include, in every 12 g of it, 3 g
of Gan Jiang, 3 g of Chi Shao, 2 g of Sha Ren, 1 g of Cao Dou Kou, 1 g of Tu Mu
Xiang, 1 g of Da Huang and 1 g of Shan Yao. Such a pharmaceutical composition is
safe and has the best effect of improving eczema.
       Optionally, the pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema may further
include, by weight, 2 to 6 parts of Fructus Aurantii Immaturus (Zhi Shi), 0.5 to 3 parts
of Radix Scutellariae Bai-calensis (Huang Qin) and 0.5 to 3 parts of Caulis Bambusae
in Taeniam (Zhu Ru). Wherein, Zhi Shi is bitter, pungent and sour in flavor and slightly
cold in nature. It interacts with the Spleen and Stomach meridians to break stagnant Qi,
purge accumulation, transform phlegm and dissipate glomus. Huang Qin is bitter in
flavor and cold in nature. It interacts with the Lung, Gallbladder, Spleen, Large
Intestine and Small Intestine meridians to clear heat, dry dampness, drain fire and
eliminate toxicity. Zhu Ru is sweet in flavor and slightly cold in nature. It interacts
                                             8

with the Lung, Stomach, Heart and Gallbladder meridians to clear heat, transform
phlegm, soothe irritability and relieve nausea. Thus, the effect of clearing heat can be
further improved.
       Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition may be prepared in the form of oral
solutions, tablets, capsules, pills granules or dropping pills.
       A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema as
defined above includes the steps as detailed below.
       In step A, a first group of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) materials, Gan
Jiang, Sha Ren, Cao Dou Kou, and Tu Mu Xiang are subjected to three reflux
extraction processes each lasting for 1-2 hours and using a 50%-80% ethanol solution
as an extraction medium. Each ethanol solution has the number of liters (L) of its
volume is 6-10 times the number of kilograms (Kg) of the total weight of the first
group of TCM materials. The concentration of 50%-80% makes active ingredients in
the TCM materials possible to be well extracted and dissolved in the ethanol solutions.
Phase distribution equilibria during the three reflux extraction processes using the
ethanol solutions each with the number of liters 6-10 times the number of kilograms of
the first group of TCM materials enable good utilization of ethanol as a solvent, high
extraction efficiency and more thorough extraction of the active ingredients. The
duration of 1-2 hours of each extraction process enables dissolution equilibrium and
hence good extraction of the active ingredients.
       In step B, the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux extraction processes are
combined and filtered. The filtrate is concentrated under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density comes to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 'C).
       In step C, a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang and
                                              9

Shan Yao undergo three boiling processes. In each of the processes, the second group
of TCM materials are decocted in water with a weight 8-12 times their total weight for
1-2 hours. Phase distribution equilibria during the three boiling processes each using
water weighing 8-12 times the second group of TCM materials enable good utilization
of the solvent, high extraction efficiency and more thorough extraction of active
ingredients in the second group of TCM materials. The duration of 1-2 hours of each
boiling process enables dissolution equilibrium and hence good extraction of the active
ingredients.
       In step D, the water used in the three boiling processes is combined and filtered.
The filtrate is mixed with the filtrate obtained from step B, and the mixture is
concentrated until its number of liters is 1-3 times the number of kilograms of the first
and second groups of TCM materials. The concentrate is kept at room temperature for
24 hours. Mixing the filtrate obtained in this step with that from step B and
concentrating the mixture until its number of liters is 1-3 times the number of
kilograms of the first and second groups of TCM materials and keeping the
concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours enables precipitation of undesired less
soluble substances contained in the filtrate from step B, such as gums, oils, fats and
pigments, and of some proteins, starch and other undesired substances in the filtrate
from this step. This is favorable to the subsequent separation as well as the quality of
the pharmaceutical composition being prepared.
       In step E, the supernatant of the concentrate is filtered and centrifuged, and the
centrifugate is concentrated to an extract with a relative density of 1.10-1.35
(measured at 60 'C) which is then dried to produce the pharmaceutical composition for
treat eczema. The filtration and centrifugation of the supernatant achieves further
separation of the less soluble substances.
                                             10

       Preferably, the method may further include a step F in which the pharmaceutical
composition is homogeneously mixed with starch, and the mixture is formed into
granules which are filled into capsules.
       Preferably, in step B, the filtrate may be concentrated at 75 'C under a reduced
pressure, concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until it has a relative density of
1.05-1.15 (measured at 60 *C).
       Preferably, in step D, the mixture may be concentrated until its number of liters
is 1-3 times the number of kilograms of the first and second groups of TCM materials.
       Preferably, in step E, the centrifugate may be concentrated at 75 *C to the extract
with a relative density of 1.10-1.35 (measured at 60 *C) which is then dried with
microwaves to produce the pharmaceutical composition for treat eczema. Drying with
microwaves can reduce the heating time and is therefore more desirable.
       Optionally, in step A, the first group of TCM materials further includes 2 to 6
parts of Zhi Shi and 0.5 to 3 parts of Huang Qin; and in step C, the second group of
TCM materials further includes 0.5 to 3 parts of Zhu Ru.
       EXAMPLE 1
       A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, by weight, 2 parts
of Gan Jiang, 2 parts of Chi Shao, 1 part of Sha Ren, 0.5 parts of Cao Dou Kou, 0.5
parts of Tu Mu Xiang, 0.5 parts of Da Huang and 0.5 parts of Shan Yao was prepared
and formed into pills.
       A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition included the steps of:
       A) subjecting a first group of TCM materials including Gan Jiang, , Sha Ren,
Cao Dou Kou,      and Tu Mu Xiang to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for
1 hour and using a 60% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which had the
number of liters 6 times the number of kilograms of the first group of TCM materials;
                                              11

       B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes and concentrating the filtrate under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density came to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 *C);
       C) subjecting a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang
and Shan Yao to three boiling processes each lasting for 1 hour and using water with a
weight 8 times the total weight of the second group of TCM materials as a boil
medium;
       D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes, mixing
the filtrate with the filtrate obtained from step B, concentrating the mixture until its
weight was 1.5 times the total weight of the first and second groups of TCM materials
and keeping the concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours; and
       E) filtering and centrifuging the supernatant of the concentrate and concentrating
the centrifugate into an extract with a relative density of 1.10-1.20 (60 *C), followed
by drying, pulverization and formation of the extract into pills.
       Optionally, Zhi Shi, Huang Qin and Zhu Ru can be added in the above
pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to the following weight
ratio: 2 parts of Gan Jiang, 2 parts of Zhi Shi, 2 parts of Chi Shao, 1 part of Sha Ren,
0.5 parts of Cao Dou Kou, 0.5 parts of Huang Qin, 0.5 parts of Tu Mu Xiang, 0.5 parts
of Da Huang, 0.5 parts of Shan Yao and 0.5 parts of Zhu Ru.
       Correspondingly, in the above preparation method, the method further optionally
includes adding Zhi Shi and Huang Qin to the first group of TCM materials in step A
and adding Zhu Ru to the second group of TCM materials in step C according to the
above weight ratio.
       EXAMPLE 2
                                            12

        A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, by weight, 4 parts
of Gan Jiang, 4 parts of Chi Shao, 3 parts of Sha Ren, 2 parts of Cao Dou Kou, 2 parts
of Tu Mu Xiang, 2 parts of Da Huang and 2 parts of Shan Yao was prepared and
formed into oral solutions.
        A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition included the steps of:
        A) subjecting a first group of TCM materials including Gan Jiang, Sha Ren,
Cao Dou Kou, and Tu Mu Xiang to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1
hour and using a 50% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which had the number
of liters 7 times the number of kilograms of the first group of TCM materials;
        B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes     and concentrating the filtrate under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density came to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 *C);
        C) subjecting a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang,
Shan Yao to three boiling processes each lasting for 1 hour and using water with a
weight 9 times the total weight of the second group of TCM materials as a boil
medium;
        D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes, mixing
the filtrate with the filtrate obtained from step B, concentrating the mixture until its
weight was 1.5 times the total weight of the first and second groups of TCM materials
and keeping the concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours; and
       E) filtering and centrifuging the supernatant of the concentrate and concentrating
the centrifugate into an extract with a relative density of 1.15-1.20 (60 C), followed
by dosing and bottling thereof.
        Optionally, Zhi Shi, Huang Qin and Zhu Ru can be added in the above
                                            13

pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to the following weight
ratio: 4 parts of Gan Jiang, 4 parts of Zhi Shi, 4 parts of Chi Shao, 3 parts of Sha Ren,
2 parts of Cao Dou Kou, 2 parts of Huang Qin, 2 parts of Tu Mu Xiang, 2 parts of Da
Huang, 2 parts of Shan Yao and 2 parts of Zhu Ru.
       Correspondingly, in the above preparation method, the method further optionally
includes adding Zhi Shi and Huang Qin to the first group of TCM materials in step A
and adding Zhu Ru to the second group of TCM materials in step C according to the
above weight ratio.
       EXAMPLE 3
       A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, by weight, 4.5
parts of Gan Jiang, 4.5 parts of Chi Shao, 3 parts of Sha Ren, 1.5 parts of Cao Dou
Kou, 1.5 parts of Tu Mu Xiang, 1.5 parts of Da Huang and 1.5 parts of Shan Yao was
prepared and formed into granules.
       A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition included the steps of:
       A) subjecting a first group of TCM materials including Gan Jiang, Sha Ren,
Cao Dou Kou and Tu Mu Xiang to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1.5
hours and using a 65% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which had the
number of liters 8 times the number of kilograms of the first group of TCM materials;
       B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes and concentrating the filtrate under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density came to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 *C);
       C) subjecting a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang
and Shan Yao to three boiling processes each lasting for 1.5 hours and using water with
a weight 10 times the total weight of the second group of TCM materials as a boil
                                            14

medium;
       D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes, mixing
the filtrate with the filtrate obtained from step B, concentrating the mixture until its
weight was 1.5 times the total weight of the first and second groups of TCM materials
and keeping the concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours;
       E) filtering and centrifuging the supernatant of the concentrate, concentrating
the centrifugate into an extract with a relative density of 1.25-1.35 (60 'C), and drying
with microwaves and pulverizing the extract; and
       F) homogeneously mixing the pulverized extract with starch, forming the
mixture into granules and filling the granules in packs.
       Optionally, Zhi Shi, Huang Qin and Zhu Ru can be added in the above
pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to the following weight
ratio: 4.5 parts of Gan Jiang,4.5 parts of Zhi Shi, 4.5 parts of Chi Shao, 3 parts of Sha
Ren, 1.5 parts of Cao Dou Kou, 1.5 parts of Huang Qin, 1.5 parts of Tu Mu Xiang, 1.5
parts of Da Huang, 1.5 parts of Shan Yao and 1.5 parts of Zhu Ru.
       Correspondingly, in the above preparation method, the method further optionally
includes adding Zhi Shi and Huang Qin to the first group of TCM materials in step A
and adding Zhu Ru to the second group of TCM materials in step C according to the
above weight ratio.
       EXAMPLE 4
       A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, by weight, 3 parts
of Gan Jiang, 3 parts of Chi Shao, 2 parts of Sha Ren, 1 part of Cao Dou Kou, 1 part
of Tu Mu Xiang, 1 part of Da Huang and 1 part of Shan Yao was prepared and formed
into tablets.
       A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition included the steps of:
                                             15

       A) subjecting a first group of TCM materials including Gan Jiang, Sha Ren,
Cao Dou Kou and Tu Mu Xiang to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1.5
hours and using a 65% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which had the
number of liters 8 times the number of kilograms of the first group of TCM materials;
       B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes     and concentrating the filtrate under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density came to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 *C);
       C) subjecting a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang
and Shan Yao to three boiling processes each lasting for 1.5 hours and using water with
a weight 10 times the total weight of the second group of TCM materials as a boil
medium;
       D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes, mixing
the filtrate with the filtrate obtained from step B, concentrating the mixture until its
weight was 1.5 times the total weight of the first and second groups of TCM materials
and keeping the concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours;
       E) filtering and centrifuging the supernatant of the concentrate, concentrating
the centrifugate into an extract with a relative density of 1.20-1.30 (60 'C), and drying
with microwaves and pulverizing the extract; and
       F) homogeneously mixing the pulverized extract with starch, forming the
mixture into granules and filling the granules in capsules.
       Optionally, Zhi Shi, Huang Qin and Zhu Ru can be added in the above
pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to the following weight
ratio: 3 parts of Gan Jiang, 3 parts of Zhi Shi, 3 parts of Chi Shao, 2 parts of Sha Ren,
1 part of Cao Dou Kou, 1 part of Huang Qin, 1 part of Tu Mu Xiang, 1 part of Da
                                             16

Huang, 1 part of Shan Yao and 1 part of Zhu Ru.
       Correspondingly, in the above preparation method, the method further optionally
includes adding Zhi Shi and Huang Qin to the first group of TCM materials in step A
and adding Zhu Ru to the second group of TCM materials in step C according to the
above weight ratio.
       EXAMPLE 5
       A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, in every 12 g of it,
3 g of Gan Jiang, 3 g of Chi Shao, 2 g of Sha Ren, 1 g of Cao Dou Kou, 1 g of Tu Mu
Xiang, 1 g of Da Huang and 1 g of Shan Yao was prepared and formed into capsules.
       A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition included the steps of:
       A) subjecting a first group of TCM materials including Gan Jiang, Sha Ren,
Cao Dou Kou and Tu Mu Xiang to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1.5
hours and using a 70% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which had the
number of liters 8 times the number of kilograms of the first group of TCM materials;
       B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes     and concentrating the filtrate under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density came to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 'C);
       C) subjecting a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang
and Shan Yao to three boiling processes each lasting for 1.5 hours and using water with
a weight 10 times the total weight of the second group of TCM materials as a boil
medium;
       D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes, mixing
the filtrate with the filtrate obtained from step B, concentrating the mixture until its
weight was 1.5 times the total weight of the first and second groups of TCM materials
                                            17

and keeping the concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours;
       E) filtering and centrifuging the supernatant of the concentrate, concentrating
the centrifugate into an extract with a relative density of 1.20-1.30 (60 *C), and drying
with microwaves and pulverizing the extract; and
       F) homogeneously mixing the pulverized extract with starch, forming the
mixture into granules and filling the granules in packs.
        Optionally, Zhi Shi, Huang Qin and Zhu Ru can be added in the above
pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, such that the pharmaceutical
composition includes, in every 17 g of it, 3 g of Gan Jiang, 3 g of Zhi Shi, 3 g of Chi
Shao, 2 g of Sha Ren, 1 g of Cao Dou Kou, 1 g of Huang Qin, 1 g of Tu Mu Xiang, 1 g
of Da Huang, 1 g of Shan Yao and 1 g of Zhu Ru.
        Correspondingly, in the above preparation method, the method further optionally
includes adding Zhi Shi and Huang Qin to the first group of TCM materials in step A
and adding Zhu Ru to the second group of TCM materials in step C according to the
above weight ratio.
       EXAMPLE 6
        A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, in every 12 g of it,
3 g of Gan Jiang, 3 g of Chi Shao, 2 g of Sha Ren, 1 g of Cao Dou Kou, 1 g of Tu Mu
Xiang, 1 g of Da Huang and 1 g of Shan Yao was prepared and formed into dropping
pills.
        A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition included the steps of:
        A) subjecting a first group of TCM materials including Gan Jiang, Sha Ren,
Cao Dou Kou and Tu Mu Xiang to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1
hour and using a 75% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which had the number
of liters 9 times the number of kilograms of the first group of TCM materials;
                                             18

       B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes and concentrating the filtrate under a reduced pressure,
concurrently with recovery of the ethanol, until its relative density came to 1.05-1.15
(measured at 60 *C);
       C) subjecting a second group of TCM materials including Chi Shao, Da Huang
and Shan Yao to three boiling processes each lasting for 1 hour and using water with a
weight 12 times the total weight of the second group of TCM materials as a boil
medium;
       D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes, mixing
the filtrate with the filtrate obtained from step B, concentrating the mixture until its
weight was 2 times the total weight of the first and second groups of TCM materials
and keeping the concentrate at room temperature for 24 hours; and
       E) filtering and centrifuging the supernatant of the concentrate and concentrating
the centrifugate into an extract with a relative density of 1.25-1.35 (60 *C), following
by dosing and formation of the extract into dropping pills.
       Optionally, Zhi Shi, Huang Qin and Zhu Ru can be added in the above
pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, such that the pharmaceutical
composition includes, in every 17 g of it, 3 g of Gan Jiang, 3 g of Zhi Shi, 3 g of Chi
Shao, 2 g of Sha Ren, 1 g of Cao Dou Kou, 1 g of Huang Qin, 1 g of Tu Mu Xiang, 1 g
of Da Huang, 1 g of Shan Yao and 1 g of Zhu Ru.
       Correspondingly, in the above preparation method, the method further optionally
includes adding Zhi Shi and Huang Qin to the first group of TCM materials in step A
and adding Zhu Ru to the second group of TCM materials in step C according to the
above weight ratio.
       EXAMPLE 7
                                            19

       A pharmacodynamic study was conducted to investigate immune effects of
eczema-treating pharmaceutical compositions.
       1 Materials and methods
       1.1 Test drugs: Capsules of an eczema-treating pharmaceutical composition
prepared from 7 TCM materials in accordance with Example 5 (Capsules A), capsules
of an eczema-treating pharmaceutical composition prepared from the 10 TCM
materials in accordance with Example 5 (Capsules B) and Kushen Capsules (as a
positive control drug containing Sophorae flavescentis radix (Kushen) as the main
TCM material).
       1.2 Reagents: dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), eosinophil cationic protein (ECP),
ELISA kits, different fluorescein-labelled anti-CD4 and anti-CD8 (anti-CD4/CD8)
monoclonal antibodies.
       1.3 Animals: 30 male and 30 female healthy guinea pigs from the Experimental
Animal Center each with a body weight of 250-300 g.
       1.4 Instruments: a Biochrom. EZ Read 400 ELISA microplate reader and a
Gallios flow cytometer.
       1.5 Methods
       1.5.1 Modeling: Models for acute eczema were made. The guinea pigs' necks
were depilated one day before the start of the study and each applied with 25pl of a
5% acetone solution of DNCB for allergization on the day of the study. One week later,
100 g1 of a 1% acetone solution of DNCB was applied as a stimulus on the inner side
of the right ear of each of the guinea pigs. Subsequently, this was repeated for five
times at an interval of 3 days. Each of the guinea pigs was determined as being usable
as a model for acute eczema if it had been observed to have an obvious red and
swollen right ear with oozing and crusting compared with its left ear.
                                           20

       1.5.2 Grouping: the 60 guinea pigs were randomly and equally divided into the
following 6 groups (i.e., 10 in each group): blank control (hereinafter referred to as
"Blank Group"); models for acute eczema as blank control ("Model Group"); models
for acute eczema administrated with a low dose of the capsules A ("Low-Dose Group
A"); models for acute eczema administrated with a high dose of the capsules A
("High-Dose Group"); models for acute eczema administrated with a low dose of the
capsules B ("Low-Dose Group B"); and models for acute eczema as positive control
("Positive Control Group").
       1.5.3 Administration: One day after the last application of the stimulus, Positive
Control Group was intragastrically given 0.46g/kg of Kushen Capsules, Low-Dose
Group B intragastrically 0.46g/kg of Capsules B, Low-Dose Group A intragastrically
0.46g/kg of Capsules A, High-Dose Group intragastrically 1.84g/kg of Capsules A,
and both Blank and Model Groups intragastrically a normal saline, once every day
continuously for two weeks.
       1.5.4 Indicators and Assays
       1.5.4.1 Serum ECP Level After two weeks of continuous administration, blood
samples were collected from the abdominal aortas of the guinea pigs and centrifuged.
Serums were taken and subjected to ELISA assays for determination of ECP levels
therein.
       1.5.4.2 CD4' and CD8' T Lymphocyte Levels Subsequent to two weeks of
continuous administration, 2 ml of whole blood was collected from each of the guinea
pigs through heart puncture 2 h after the last administration and added with heparin for
full anticoagulation. Each anticoagulated blood sample was transferred carefully with
a glass capillary pipette onto 2 ml of a lymphocyte separation medium contained in a
test tube so that it slowly flowed down along the wall of the test tube, resulting in a
                                            21

clear interface between the two liquids. The test tube was then subjected to
centrifugation at 2000 rpm for 10 min. The resulting lymphocyte layer at the interface,
together with the serum, was drawn into a glass capillary pipette and added into
another scaled centrifuge tube and rinsed with PBS buffer for three times. The
lymphocyte concentration was conditioned to 105/mL during the last rinsing cycle, and
0.5 ml of the lymphocyte suspension was taken, added with 5 pl of a doubly-labelled
antibody, mixed well, incubated in a dark location at 37 'C for 30 min, rinsed with
PBS buffer for twice and tested.
       2 Results
       2.1 Effect of the eczema-treating pharmaceutical compositions according to the
present invention on serum ECP levels of the guinea pigs
       Guinea pigs in Model Group had higher serum ECP levels than the Blank Group
ones (P<0.01), indicating the success of the modeling. Compared to Model Group,
High-Dose Group, Low-Dose Group A, Low-Dose Group B and Positive Control
Group all had significantly reduced serum ECP levels (P<0.05 or P<0.01). High-Dose
Group exhibited a better therapeutic effect than Low-Dose Group A, Low-Dose Group
B, and Positive Control Group (P<0.05). Low-Dose Group A exhibited a better
therapeutic effect than Low-Dose Group B and Positive Control Group, but the
difference was not statistically significant (P> 0.05). These results are shown in Table
1.
       Table 1 Effects of the capsules of the compositions on serum ECP levels of the
guinea pigs (x s, n=10)
       Group                         Dose (g/kg)                 ECP (ng/ml)
       Blank                                                     4.97±0.57
       Model                                                     8.45±0.63**
                                             22

       High-Dose                     1.84                      5.46±0.47**
       Low-Dose A                    0.46                      6.68±0.58*A
       Low-Dose B                    0.46                      6.87±0.59"A
       Positive Control              0.46                      6.72±0.53*A
       Note: Compare with Blank Group, **P<0.01; compare with Model Group,
**P<0.01 and "P<0.05; and compare with High-Dose Group, AP<0.05.
       2.2 Effect of the eczema-treating pharmaceutical compositions according to the
present invention on CD4* and CD8' T lymphocyte levels of the guinea pigs as well as
on their ratios
       The CD4* T lymphocyte levels of Model Group were statistically significantly
(P<0.01) lower than those of Blank Group. While the CD4* T lymphocyte levels of the
therapeutic groups were averagely higher than those of Model Group, only High-Dose
Group showed a statistical difference (P<0.05). The CD8' F lymphocyte levels of
Model Group were statistically significantly (P<0.01) higher than those of Blank
Group. While the CD8*F lymphocyte levels of the therapeutic groups were averagely
lower than those of Model Group, only High-Dose Group showed a statistical
difference (P<0.05). The CD4*/CD8* ratios of Model Group were statistically
significantly (P<0.01) lower than those of Blank Group. While the CD4*/CD8* ratios
of the therapeutic groups were higher than those of Model Group, only High-Dose
Group showed a statistical difference (P<0.05). These results are summarized in Table
2.
       Table 2 Effects of the capsules of the compositions on CD4* and CD8* T
Lymphocyte Levels and CD4*/CD8* ratios of the guinea pigs (x      s, n=10)
Group                      CD4*                  CD8*                   CD4*/CD8*
Blank                       38.57±1.41           16.98±1.25             2.27±0.25
                                           23

Model                      27.56±3.67**            26.11±3.89**            1.06±0.49**
High-Dose                  32.83±3.58#              19.93±4.43*            1.65±0.37'
Low-Dose A                 30.74±4.13              22.86±3.11              1.34±0.31
Low-Dose B                 29.51±3.67              23.42±4.52              1.26±0.48
Positive Control           29.72±3.72              23.13±4.65              1.28±0.45
       Note: Compare with Blank Group, **P<0.01; and compare with Model Group,
"P<0.05.
              While the present invention has been described above with reference to
several preferred embodiments, they are not intended to limit the invention in any
sense. Those of ordinary skill in the art can make various changes and modifications
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the scope of
the invention is intended to be defined by the appended claims.
              The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or
information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not
be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior
publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the
common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
relates.
              Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step
or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
of integers or steps.
                                            24

          THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
       1. A pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema, including, by weight, 2 to
6 parts of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 2 to 6 parts of Paeonia Lactiflora, 1 to
4 parts of Fructus Amomi, 0.5 to 3 parts of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 0.5 to 3 parts
of Inula helenium, 0.5 to 3 parts of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 0.5 to 3 parts of
Rhizoma Dioscoreae.
       2. The pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to claim 1,
including, by weight, 2 to 4 parts of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 2 to 4 parts
of Paeonia Lactiflora, 1 to 3 parts of Fructus Amomi, 0.5 to 2 parts of Semen Alpiniae
Katsumadai, 0.5 to 2 parts of Inula helenium, 0.5 to 2 parts of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei
and 0.5 to 2 parts of Rhizoma Dioscoreae.
       3. The pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to claim 2,
including, by weight, 3 parts of Dried Rhizoma Zingiberis Officinalis, 3 parts of
Paeonia Lactiflora, 2 parts of Fructus Amomi, 1 part of Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, 1
part of Inula helenium, 1 part of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 1 part of Rhizoma
Dioscoreae.
       4. The pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to claim 1,
including, in every 12 g of the pharmaceutical composition, 3 g of Dried Rhizoma
Zingiberis Officinalis, 3 g of Paeonia Lactiflora, 2 g of Fructus Amomi, 1 g of Semen
Alpiniae Katsumadai, 1 g of Inula helenium, 1 g of Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and 1 g of
Rhizoma Dioscoreae.
       5. The pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to claim 1,
further including, by weight, 2 to 6 parts of Fructus Aurantii Immaturus, 0.5 to 3 parts
of Radix Scutellariae Bai-calensis and 0.5 to 3 parts of Caulis Bambusae in Taeniam.
       6. The pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema according to any one of
claims 1 to 5, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is in a form of oral solutions,
                                            25

tablets, capsules, pills granules or dropping pills.
       7. A method for preparing the pharmaceutical composition for treating eczema
according to any one of claims 1 to 4, including:
       step A) subjecting a first group of medicine materials including Dried Rhizoma
Zingiberis Officinalis, Fructus Amomi, Semen Alpiniae Katsumadai, and Inula
helenium to three reflux extraction processes each lasting for 1-2 hours and using a
50%-80% ethanol solution as an extraction medium which has a number of units of
volume (L) 6 times a number of units of a total weight (Kg) of the first group of
medicine materials;
       step B) combining and filtering the ethanol solutions used in the three reflux
extraction processes to obtain a first filtrate and concentrating the first filtrate under a
reduced pressure, concurrently with recovery of the ethanol solutions, until relative
density of the concentrated first filtrate comes to 1.05-1.15;
       step C) subjecting a second group of medicine materials including Paeonia
Lactiflora, Radix Et Rhizoma Rhei and Rhizoma Dioscoreae to three boiling processes
each lasting for 1-2 hours and using water with a weight 8-12 times a total weight of
the second group of medicine materials as a boil medium;
       step D) combining and filtering the water used in the three boiling processes to
obtain a second filtrate, mixing the second filtrate with the first filtrate obtained from
step B to obtain a first mixture, concentrating the first mixture until a weight of the
first mixture becomes 1-3 times a total weight of the first and second groups of
medicine materials and keeping the concentrated first mixture at room temperature for
24 hours; and
       step E) filtering and centrifuging a supernatant of the concentrated first mixture
to obtain a centrifugate, concentrating the centrifugate into an extract with a relative
                                             26

density of 1.10-1.35,     and drying the extract to produce the pharmaceutical
composition.
       8. The method according to claim 7, further including: step F) homogeneously
mixing the pharmaceutical composition with starch to obtain a second mixture,
forming the second mixture into granules and filling the granules in packs.
       9. The method according to claim 7, wherein in step B, the first filtrate is
concentrated at 75 'C until the relative density of the concentrated first filtrate comes
to 1.05-1.15.
       10.     The method according to claim 7, wherein in step E, the centrifugate is
concentrated at 75 *C into the extract with a relative density of 1.10-1.35, and the
extract is dried with microwaves to produce the pharmaceutical composition.
       11.     The method according to claim 7, wherein in step A, the first group of
medicine materials further include 2 to 6 parts of Fructus Aurantii Immaturus and 0.5
to 3 parts of Radix Scutellariae Bai-calensis; and in step C, the second group of
medicine materials further include 0.5 to 3 parts of Caulis Bambusae in Taeniam.
                                           27

