                           ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
              The present invention provides Ligand-Drug Conjugates, Drug-Linkers, Linkers,
and Ligand-Linker Conjugates comprising a self-stabilizing linker assembly component.

                    SELF-STABILIZING LINKER CONJUGATES
                                            CONTINUITY
[0001]    This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2013263002, the
entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[0001]    This application claims the benefit of US Provisional Patent Application No.
61/647,373, filed May 15, 2012, and US Provisional Patent Application No. 61/773,067, filed
March 5, 2013, and also claims priority to US Application Ser. No. 13/799,244, filed March 13,
2013, each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety and for all purposes.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    The antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) field has made significant advances with the FDA
approval of Brentuximab Vedotin for the treatment of a select group of patients and with the
advancement of many other ADCs in the clinic. The linker component of ADCs is one
important feature in developing optimized therapeutic agents that are highly active at well
tolerated doses. The electrophilic maleimide functional group has proven very useful in the
preparation of ADCs due to its high degree of specificity for reacting with thiol groups and the
very fast thiol addition kinetics under gentle conditions.
                                0                           0
         Antibody'SH   -       N ]           Antibody-     N
                            0    drug-linker             0    drug-linker
[0003]    As has been noted by multiple investigators in the bioconjugate field, the thio
substituted product of the reaction between the electrophilic maleimide functional group and free
thiol of antibody is subject to slow elimination, thus reversing the above reaction:
                                                    1

                         0                                     0
                 ,S     N      --                SH   +|   'N
         Antibody                       Antibody
                     0     drug-linker                     0     drug-linker
[0004]     When this reversible reaction occurs in a purified preparation of the ADC, the reaction
is largely undetectable because the maleimide and thiol which are regenerated through the
elimination process simply react again, thus reforming the intact conjugate. However, when
other thiols are present, the net effect can be the transfer of the maleimide from the antibody of
the ADC onto any other available thiol. This process has been documented to occur in plasma,
in which the maleimide of an ADC transfers to cysteine 34 of serum albumin (Alley et al.,
Bioconjugate Chem. 2008, 19, 759-765). This process has also been reported when an ADC is
incubated in the presence of excess cysteine or glutathione (Shen et al., Nature Biotech, 30(2):
 184-9, 2012).   The present invention provides, inter alia, bioconjugates that do not undergo this
transfer reaction.
                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]     The invention provides inter alia, Linkers, Drug-Linkers, Ligand-Drug Conjugates,
Ligand-Linker Conjugates, Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates, and Functional Agent-Linkers,
and methods of preparing and using them. The Ligand-Drug Conjugates are stable in circulation,
yet capable of inflicting cell death once released in the vicinity or within tumor cells.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]     Figure 1 provides a reaction scheme illustrating the reduction of the interchain
disulfides of a human IgG 1, followed by conjugation of the resulting thiols with a self-stabilizing
linker and subsequent hydrolysis of the succinimide ring (Top); and the use of mass spectrometry
to monitor the change in the molecular weight of the antibody conjugates due to hydrolysis
(Bottom).
[0007]     Figure 2 illustrates the timecourse of succinimide ring hydrolysis of a self-stabilizing
antibody conjugate by electrospray mass spectrometry. Conjugation of fully reduced cAC10
                                                    2

with maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE was performed at pH 7.2 and 22'C, then samples
were subjected to analysis by LC-MS at the indicated times (Top). The resulting data of %
hydrolysis was plotted versus time and fit to an exponential equation to determine kinetic
parameters (Bottom).
[0008]     Figure 3 provides the hydrolysis kinetic profiles for bioconjugates prepared with an
IgGI antibody and self-stabilizing linkers with varying spacing between the maleimide and the
basic group (a primary amine). Conjugation was performed at pH 8 and 37'C, then hydrolysis of
the IgG1 light chain conjugate was immediately monitored by mass spectrometry, plotted as a
function of time, and fit to an exponential equation.
[0009]     Figure 4 provides kinetic profiles of the hydrolysis of bioconjugates prepared with an
IgGI antibody and self-stabilizing maleimide linkers with varying spacing between the
maleimide and the basic group (a primary amine). Conjugation was performed at pH 8 and
37'C, then hydrolysis of the IgG1 light chain conjugate was immediately monitored by mass
spectrometry, plotted as a function of time, and fit to an exponential equation.
[0010]     Figure 5 provides hydrolysis kinetic profiles for bioconjugates prepared with an IgG1
antibody and various N-substituted maleimides. Conjugation was performed at pH 7.4 and
22'C, then hydrolysis of the IgGI light chain conjugate was immediately monitored by mass
spectrometry, plotted as a function of time, and fit to an exponential equation. Hydrolysis of the
maleimido-caproyl conjugate (bottom structure) is too slow to produce any detectable hydrolysis
in 24 hours under these conditions. The presence of the carboxamide electron withdrawing
group (EWG) or the primary amine (BASE) accelerate the hydrolysis, and the combination of
the two (top structure) results in a conjugate which hydrolyzes with a half-life of less than 20
minutes under these mild conditions.
[0011]     Figure 6 provides hydrolysis kinetic profiles for self-stabilizing maleimido drug
linkers prepared with a-diaminopropionic acid (u-DPR, open circles) and with      p
diaminopropionic acid (p-DPR, filled circles). Although isomers of each other, the positioning
of the basic amino group and the electron withdrawing carboxamide relative to the succinimide
results in a 17-fold difference in the rate of succinimide hydrolysis.
                                                    3

[0012]     Figure 7 illustrates the change in drug loading over time for an ADC prepared with a
self-stabilizing maleimido-DPR drug-linker versus one prepared with a maleimido-caproyl drug
linker when incubated in a buffer containing excess thiol. The reversed-phase chromatograms of
the two ADCs at time zero and time 14 days after incubation is shown in the top panel.
Chromatographic peak assignments LO, L1, HO, H1, H2, and H3 correspond to unconjugated
light chain, light chain with one drug, unconjugated heavy chain, and heavy chain with 1, 2, or 3
drugs, respectively. The self-stabilizing maleimido-DPR drug-linker is represented with open
circles versus one prepared with a maleimido-caproyl drug linker (open squares). Drug loading
remains constant at 8 per antibody for the self-stabilizing drug-linker (open circles), but falls to 4
drugs per antibody over 14 days for the maleimido-caproyl drug linker (open squares), reflecting
loss of drug by maleimide elimination.
[0013]     Figure 8 illustrates the change in drug loading over time for ADCs prepared with a
self-stabilizing maleimido-DPR drug-linker and a maleimido-caproyl drug linker, when
incubated in rat plasma at 37 'C (R=val-cit-PAB-MMAE). ADC samples at each timepoint were
purified by Ig Select affinity resin and their drug loading evaluated by reversed-phase HPLC
analysis of the ADCs.
 [0014]    Figure 9 provides the stability profile of drugs conjugated to antibodies via a
maleimido-caproyl drug- linker (squares) or a self-stabilizing maleimide linker(circles) during
incubation in rat (open symbols) or human (filled symbols) plasma (R=val-cit-PAB-MMAE).
ADCs were captured on Protein A affinity resin at each timepoint and the drug released
enzymatically via its protease-cleavable linker. The released drug was then quantified by LC
MS/MS and normalized to the initial value. Each timepoint reflects the percent of the conjugated
drug that was observed at tO.
[0015]     Figure 10 illustrates the decrease in drug loading in vivo (rats) for ADCs prepared with
a self-stabilizing maleimido-DPR drug-linker and a maleimido-caproyl drug linker (R=val-cit
PAB-MMAE). ADCs were dosed i.v. and plasma samples from each timepoint were purified by
Ig Select affinity resin and their drug loading evaluated by reversed-phase HPLC analysis of the
ADCs.
[0016]     Figure 11 illustrates the antitumor activity of ADCs in a murine xenograft model of
ALCL (Karpas-299 cell line). ADCs were prepared with the anti-CD30 antibody cACiO and
                                                   4

drug linkers containing the val-cit-PAB-MMAE cytotoxic payload linked to the antibody via
either a maleimido-caproyl group (closed circles) or a self-stabilizing maleimido-DPR group
(open circles). Tumors were allowed to reach a volume of approximately 250 mm 3 before
dosing at 1 mg/kg weekly for three doses (six mice per dose group). The self-stabilizing ADC
dose group experienced complete responses (no detectable tumor) in all six animals, with five
animals experiencing durable regressions, while the maleimido-caproyl ADC experienced no
complete responses.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Abbreviations and Definitions
[0017]     Unless stated otherwise, the following terms and phrases as used herein are intended to
have the following meanings. When trade names are used herein, the trade name includes the
product formulation, the generic drug, and the active pharmaceutical ingredient(s) of the trade
name product, unless otherwise indicated by context.
[0018]     The term "electron-withdrawing group" refers to a functional group that draws
electrons away from a reaction center. Exemplary electron withdrawing groups include, but are
not limited to, -C(=O), -CN, -NO 2 , -CX 3 , -X, -COOR, -CONR 2 , -COR, -COX, -SO 2R, -SO 2OR,
-SO 2NHR, -SO 2 NR 2 , -PO 3 R 2 , -P(O)(CH 3)NHR, NO, -NR3), -CR=CR 2, and -C-CR wherein X
is F, Br, Cl, or I, and R is, at each occurrence, independently selected from the group consisting
of hydrogen and C 1 .6 alkyl. Exemplary electron withdrawing groups can also include aryl groups
(e.g., phenyl) and certain heteroaryl groups (e.g., pyridine). The term "electron withdrawing
groups" includes aryls or heteroaryls further substitued with electron withdrawing groups.
Preferred electron withdrawing groups are -C(=O), -CN, -NO 2 , -CX 3 , and -X.
[0019]     The term "base" refers to a functional group that deprotonates water to produce a
hydroxide ion. Exemplary bases are amines and nitrogen containing heterocycles.
Representative bases include -N(R 3)(R 4) wherein R 3 and R 4 are independently selected from H
or C1.6 alkyl, preferably H or methyl,
                                                    5

                     NR5
                                 (CH 2 )e           NR5        NR 5
                                             I  'H                        2N
                  H2 N
                               -R6                      N                  NH
                                          N                           HN      NR7 R8
                          NHR 7             N7R 8R,     NH         R7 HN     NR 8
                       N)     NHR 8
                                               R        N
                                                        N
                                      N                             N   R
                                                          Nure        R6
wherein R , R , R7 and R8 are, at each occurrence, independently selected from hydrogen or C1 .6
alkyl, preferably H or methyl, and e is 0-4. In some aspects, the base is a nitrogenous base.
[0020]     The term "antibody" herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers intact
monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, monospecific antibodies, multispecific antibodies
(e.g., bispecific antibodies), and antibody fragments that exhibit the desired biological activity.
An intact antibody has primarily two regions: a variable region and a constant region. The
variable region binds to and interacts with a target antigen. The variable region includes a
complementary determining region (CDR) that recognizes and binds to a specific binding site on
a particular antigen. The constant region may be recognized by and interact with the immune
system (see, e.g., Janeway et al., 2001, Immuno. Biology, 5th Ed., Garland Publishing, New
York). An antibody can be of any type (e.g., IgG, IgE, IgM, IgD, and IgA), class (e.g., IgGI,
IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl and IgA2) or subclass. The antibody can be derived from any suitable
                                                     6

species. In some embodiments, the antibody is of human or murine origin. An antibody can be,
for example, human, humanized or chimeric.
[0021]      The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a
population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies comprising
the population are identical except for possible naturally-occurring mutations that may be present
in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, being directed against a single
antigenic site. The modifier "monoclonal" indicates the character of the antibody as being
obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies, and is not to be construed
as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method.
[0022]      An "intact antibody" is one which comprises an antigen-binding variable region as well
as a light chain constant domain (CL) and heavy chain constant domains, CHI,        CH2 , CH3 and
CH4,  as appropriate for the antibody class. The constant domains may be native sequence
constant domains (e.g., human native sequence constant domains) or amino acid sequence
variant thereof.
[0023]      An "antibody fragment" comprises a portion of an intact antibody, comprising the
antigen-binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab, Fab',
F(ab') 2 , and Fv fragments, diabodies, triabodies, tetrabodies, linear antibodies, single-chain
antibody molecules, scFv, scFv-Fc, multispecific antibody fragments formed from antibody
fragment(s), a fragment(s) produced by a Fab expression library, or an epitope-binding fragments
of any of the above which immunospecifically bind to a target antigen (e.g., a cancer cell
antigen, a viral antigen or a microbial antigen).
[0024]      An "antigen" is an entity to which an antibody specifically binds.
[0025]      The terms "specific binding" and "specifically binds" mean that the antibody or
antibody derivative will bind, in a highly selective manner, with its corresponding target antigen
and not with the multitude of other antigens. Typically, the antibody or antibody derivative
binds with an affinity of at least about 1x10-7 M, and preferably 10- M to 10-9 M, 101m M, 101"
M, or 10-12 M and binds to the predetermined antigen with an affinity that is at least two-fold
greater than its affinity for binding to a non-specific antigen (e.g., BSA, casein) other than the
predetermined antigen or a closely-related antigen.
                                                   7

[0026]     The term "inhibit" or "inhibition of' means to a reduce by a measurable amount, or to
prevent entirely.
[0027]     The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount of a drug effective to
treat a disease or disorder in a mammal. In the case of cancer, the therapeutically effective
amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells; reduce the tumor size; inhibit (i.e.,
slow to some extent and preferably stop) cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs; inhibit
(i.e., slow to some extent and preferably stop) tumor metastasis; inhibit, to some extent, tumor
growth; and/or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer.
To the extent the drug may inhibit growth and/or kill existing cancer cells, it may be cytostatic
and/or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy, efficacy can, for example, be measured by assessing the
time to disease progression (TTP) and/or determining the response rate (RR).
[0028]     The term "substantial" or "substantially" refers to a majority, i.e. >50% of a population,
of a mixture or a sample, preferably more than 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 75%, 80%, 85%,
90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97 %, 98%, or 99% of a population.
[0029]     The terms "intracellularly cleaved" and "intracellular cleavage" refer to a metabolic
process or reaction inside a cell on a Ligand Drug conjugate (e.g., an Antibody Drug Conjugate
(ADC) or the like), whereby the covalent attachment, e.g., the linker, between the Drug moiety
(D) and the Ligand unit (e.g., an antibody (Ab)) is broken, resulting in the free Drug, or other
metabolite of the conjugate dissociated from the antibody inside the cell. The cleaved moieties
of the Drug-Linker-Ligand conjugate are thus intracellular metabolites.
[0030]     The term "cytotoxic activity" refers to a cell-killing, a cytostatic or an anti-proliferative
effect of a Drug-Linker-Ligand conjugate compound or an intracellular metabolite of a Drug
Linker-Ligand conjugate. Cytotoxic activity may be expressed as the IC 50 value, which is the
concentration (molar or mass) per unit volume at which half the cells survive.
[0031]     The term "cytotoxic agent" as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or inhibits
the function of cells and/or causes destruction of cells. The term is intended to include
radioactive isotopes (e.g., 211At,   I, 125 90 Y,   Re, 188Re,     Sm, 212Bi, 32p, 60C, and radioactive
isotopes of Lu), chemotherapeutic agents, and toxins such as small molecule toxins or
                                                   8

enzymatically active toxins of bacterial, fungal, plant or animal origin, including synthetic
analogs and derivatives thereof.
[0032]    The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological condition or
disorder in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A "tumor"
comprises one or more cancerous cells.
[0033]    An "autoimmune disease" herein is a disease or disorder arising from and directed
against an individual's own tissues or proteins.
[0034]    Examples of a "patient" include, but are not limited to, a human, rat, mouse, guinea pig,
monkey, pig, goat, cow, horse, dog, cat, bird and fowl. In an exemplary embodiment, the patient
is a human.
[0035]    The terms "treat" or "treatment," unless otherwise indicated by context, refer to
therapeutic treatment and prophylactic measures to prevent relapse, wherein the object is to
inhibit or slow down (lessen) an undesired physiological change or disorder, such as the
development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention, beneficial or desired clinical
results include, but are not limited to, alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of extent of
disease, stabilized (i.e., not worsening) state of disease, delay or slowing of disease progression,
amelioration or palliation of the disease state, and remission (whether partial or total), whether
detectable or undetectable. "Treatment" can also mean prolonging survival as compared to
expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already
with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder.
[0036]    In the context of cancer, the term "treating" includes any or all of: inhibiting growth of
tumor cells, cancer cells, or of a tumor; inhibiting replication of tumor cells or cancer cells,
lessening of overall tumor burden or decreasing the number of cancerous cells, and ameliorating
one or more symptoms associated with the disease.
[0037]    In the context of an autoimmune disease, the term "treating" includes any or all of:
inhibiting replication of cells associated with an autoimmune disease state including, but not
limited to, cells that produce an autoimmune antibody, lessening the autoimmune-antibody
burden and ameliorating one or more symptoms of an autoimmune disease.
                                                    9

[0038] As used herein, the term "Detection unit" refers to refers to any molecule which
produces, or can be induced to produce, a detectable signal. Detection units having reporter
molecules that can be detected by imaging equipment include, but are not limited to, radioactive,
paramagnetic, fluorescent or radioopaque chemical entities. In some embodiments, the
Detection unit will be a radioactive compound, a chemiluminescent agent, a fluorescent agent, or
a chromogen. In some embodiments, the Detection unit will be a fluorescent molecule such as a
fluorophore.
[0039]     As used herein, the term "Stability unit" refers to a compound that promotes the
stability of the conjugate, e.g., by increasing systemic retention of the Ligand when administered
to a patient. A Stability unit can also increase the water solubility of the conjugate. An
exemplary Stability unit is polyethylene glycol.
[0040]     The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable salt," as used herein, refers to
pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound (e.g., a Drug, Drug
Linker, or a Ligand-Drug Conjugate). The compound can contain at least one amino group, and
accordingly acid addition salts can be formed with the amino group. Exemplary salts include,
but are not limited to, sulfate, trifluoroacetate, citrate, acetate, oxalate, chloride, bromide, iodide,
nitrate, bisulfate, phosphate, acid phosphate, isonicotinate, lactate, salicylate, acid citrate,
tartrate, oleate, tannate, pantothenate, bitartrate, ascorbate, succinate, maleate, gentisinate,
fumarate, gluconate, glucuronate, saccharate, formate, benzoate, glutamate, methanesulfonate,
ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and pamoate (i.e., 1,1' -methylene-bis
(2-hydroxy-3- naphthoate)) salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion
of another molecule such as an acetate ion, a succinate ion or other counterion. The counterion
may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound.
Furthermore, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its
structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable
salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or
more charged atoms and/or one or more counterion.
[0041]     Unless otherwise indicated, the term "alkyl" by itself or as part of another term refers to
a substituted or unsubstituted straight chain or branched, saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon
having the indicated number of carbon atoms (e.g., "-C1 -C8 alkyl" or "-C1 -Cio alkyl refer to an
                                                     10

alkyl group having from 1 to 8 or 1 to 10 carbon atoms, respectively). When the number of
carbon atoms is not indicated, the alkyl group has from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Representative
straight chain "-C1 -C8 alkyl" groups include, but are not limited to, -methyl, -ethyl, -n-propyl,
n-butyl, -n-pentyl, -n-hexyl, -n-heptyl and -n-octyl; while branched -C 1-C8 alkyls include, but are
not limited to, -isopropyl, -sec-butyl, -isobutyl, -tert-butyl, -isopentyl, and -2-methylbutyl;
unsaturated -C 2 -C8 alkyls include, but are not limited to, -vinyl, -allyl, -1-butenyl, -2-butenyl,
-isobutylenyl, -1-pentenyl, -2-pentenyl, -3-methyl-1-butenyl, -2-methyl-2-butenyl,
-2,3-dimethyl-2-butenyl, -1-hexyl, 2-hexyl, -3-hexyl, -acetylenyl, -propynyl, -1-butynyl,
-2-butynyl, -1-pentynyl, -2-pentynyl and -3-methyl-i butynyl. In some embodiments, an alkyl
group is unsubstituted. An alkyl group can be substituted with one or more groups. In some
aspects, an alkyl group will be saturated.
[0042]    Unless otherwise indicated, "alkylene," by itself of as part of another term, refers to a
substituted or unsubstituted saturated, branched or straight chain or cyclic hydrocarbon radical of
the stated number of carbon atoms, typically 1-10 carbon atoms, and having two monovalent
radical centers derived by the removal of two hydrogen atoms from the same or two different
carbon atoms of a parent alkane. Typical alkylene radicals include, but are not limited to:
methylene (-CH 2 -), 1,2-ethyl (-CH 2CH 2 -), 1,3-propyl (-CH 2CH 2CH 2-), 1,4-butyl
(-CH 2CH 2CH 2 CH 2-), and the like. In preferred aspects, an alkylene is a branched or straight
chain hydrocarbon (i.e., it is not a cyclic hydrocarbon).
[0043]    Unless otherwise indicated, "aryl," by itself or as part of another term, means a
substituted or unsubstituted monovalent carbocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6-20 carbon
atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent
aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as "Ar".
Typical aryl groups include, but are not limited to, radicals derived from benzene, substituted
benzene, naphthalene, anthracene, biphenyl, and the like. An exemplary aryl group is a phenyl
group as follows:
                                                   11

[0044]     Unless otherwise indicated, an "arylene," by itself or as part of another term, is an aryl
group as defined above which has two covalent bonds (i.e., it is divalent) and can be in the ortho,
meta, or para configurations as shown in the following structures, with phenyl as the exemplary
group:
[0045]     Unless otherwise indicated, a "C3-C8 heterocycle," by itself or as part of another term,
refers to a monovalent substituted or unsubstituted aromatic or non-aromatic monocyclic or
bicyclic ring system having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms (also referred to as ring members) and one
to four heteroatom ring members independently selected from N, 0, P or S, and derived by
removal of one hydrogen atom from a ring atom of a parent ring system. One or more N, C or S
atoms in the heterocycle can be oxidized. The ring that includes the heteroatom can be aromatic
or nonaromatic. Unless otherwise noted, the heterocycle is attached to its pendant group at any
heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. Representative examples of a C3-Cs
heterocycle include, but are not limited to, pyrrolidinyl, azetidinyl, piperidinyl, morpholinyl,
tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropyranyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiophene, indolyl, benzopyrazolyl,
pyrrolyl, thiophenyl (thiophene), furanyl, thiazolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridinyl,
pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, isothiazolyl, and isoxazolyl. A"C3-C8 heteroaryl," is an aromatic C3 -C8
heterocycle.
[0046]     Unless otherwise indicated, "C3 -C8 heterocyclo," by itself or as part of another term,
refers to a C3 -C8 heterocycle group defined above wherein one of the heterocycle group's
hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond (i.e., it is divalent). A "C3 -C8 heteroarylene," by itself or
as part of another term, refers to a C3-C8 heteroaryl group defined above wherein one of the
heteroaryl group's hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond (i.e., it is divalent).
[0047]     Unless otherwise indicated, a "C3 -C8 carbocycle," by itself or as part of another term, is
a 3-, 4-, 5-, 6-, 7- or 8-membered monovalent, substituted or unsubstituted, saturated or
unsaturated non-aromatic monocyclic or bicyclic carbocyclic ring derived by the removal of one
hydrogen atom from a ring atom of a parent ring system. Representative -C 3 -C8 carbocycles
                                                  12

include, but are not limited to, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentadienyl,
cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, 1,3-cyclohexadienyl, 1,4-cyclohexadienyl, cycloheptyl, 1,3
cycloheptadienyl, 1,3,5-cycloheptatrienyl, cyclooctyl, and cyclooctadienyl.
[0048]     Unless otherwise indicated, a "C3-C8 carbocyclo," by itself or as part of another term,
refers to a C3 -C8 carbocycle group defined above wherein another of the carbocycle groups'
hydrogen atoms is replaced with a bond (i.e., it is divalent).
[0049]     Unless otherwise indicated, the term "heteroalkyl," by itself or in combination with
another term, means, unless otherwise stated, a stable straight or branched chain hydrocarbon, or
combinations thereof, fully saturated or containing from 1 to 3 degrees of unsaturation,
consisting of the stated number of carbon atoms and from one to ten, preferably one to three,
heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of 0, N, Si and S, and wherein the nitrogen and
sulfur atoms may optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be
quaternized. The heteroatom(s) 0, N and S may be placed at any interior position of the
heteroalkyl group or at the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the
molecule. The heteroatom Si may be placed at any position of the heteroalkyl group, including
the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule. Examples
include -CH 2 -CH 2-0-CH3 , -CH 2-CH 2-NH-CH 3, -CH 2 -CH 2-N(CH 3 )-CH 3 , -CH 2 -S-CH 2 -CH 3 ,
CH 2-CH 2-S(O)-CH 3, -NH-CH 2-CH 2 -NH-C(O)-CH 2-CH 3, -CH 2 -CH 2 -S(0) 2 -CH 3 , -CH=CH-0
CH 3 , -Si(CH 3) 3, -CH 2-CH=N-0-CH 3, and -CH=CH-N(CH 3)-CH 3. Up to two heteroatoms may
be consecutive, such as, for example, -CH 2-NH-OCH 3 and -CH 2 -0-Si(CH 3) 3. In preferred
embodiments, a C1 to C 4 heteroalkyl or heteroalkylene has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and 1 or 2
heteroatoms and a C1 to C3 heteroalkyl or heteroalkylene has 1 to 3 carbon atoms and 1 or 2
heteroatoms. In some aspects, a heteroalkyl or heteroalkylene is saturated.
[0050]     Unless otherwise indicated, the term "heteroalkylene" by itself or as part of another
substituent means a divalent group derived from heteroalkyl (as discussed above), as exemplified
by -CH 2-CH 2-S-CH 2-CH 2- and -CH 2-S-CH 2-CH 2-NH-CH 2-. For heteroalkylene groups,
heteroatoms can also occupy either or both of the chain termini. Still further, for alkylene and
heteroalkylene linking groups, no orientation of the linking group is implied.
[0051]     "Substituted alkyl" and "substituted aryl" mean alkyl and aryl, respectively, in which
one or more hydrogen atoms are each independently replaced with a substituent. Typical
                                                  13

substituents include, but are not limited to, -X, -R, -0-, -OR, -SR, -S-, -NR2 , -NR3 ,
=NR, -CX 3 , -CN, -OCN, -SCN, -N=C=O, -NCS, -NO, -NO 2, =N 2 , -N 3, -NRC(=O)R, -C(=O)R,
C(=O)NR 2 , -S03-, -S0     3 H, -S(=0) 2 R, -OS(=0) 2 0R, -S(=0) 2NR, -S(=O)R, -OP(=O)(OR) 2,
P(=O)(OR) 2, -PO-3 , -P0 3 H 2 , -AsO 2 H 2 , -C(=O)R, -C(=O)X, -C(=S)R, -CO 2 R, -C0 2
, -C(=S)OR, -C(=O)SR, -C(=S)SR, -C(=O)NR 2, -C(=S)NR 2, or -C(=NR)NR 2, where each X is
independently a halogen: -F, -Cl, -Br, or -I; and each R is independently -H, -C 1-C2 0 alkyl,
C6 -C2 0 aryl, -C 3 -C 4 heterocycle, a protecting group or a prodrug moiety. Alkylene, carbocycle,
carbocyclo, arylene, heteroalkyl, heteroalkylene, heterocycle, heterocyclo, heteroaryl, and
heteroarylene groups as described above may also be similarly substituted.
[0052]     RG is a reactive group that contains a reactive site (RS) that is capable of forming a
bond with either the components of the Linker unit (i.e., A, W, Y) or the Drug unit D. RS is the
reactive site within a Reactive Group (RG). Reactive groups include sulfhydryl groups to form
disulfide bonds or thioether bonds, aldehyde, ketone, or hydrazine groups to form hydrazone
bonds, carboxylic or amino groups to form peptide bonds, carboxylic or hydroxy groups to form
ester bonds, sulfonic acids to form sulfonamide bonds, alcohols to form carbamate bonds, and
amines to form sulfonamide bonds or carbamate bonds. The following table is illustrative of
Reactive Groups, Reactive Sites, and exemplary functional groups that can form after reaction of
the reactive site. The table is not limiting. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the noted
R' and R" portions in the table are effectively any organic moiety (e.g., an alkyl group, aryl
group, heteroaryl group, or substituted alkyl, aryl, or heteroaryl, group) which is compatible with
the bond formation provided in converting RG to one of the Exemplary Functional Groups. It
will also be appreciated that, as applied to the embodiments of the present invention, R' may
represent one or more components of the self-stabilizing linker or optional secondary linker, as
the case may be, and R" may represent one or more components of the optional secondary linker,
Drug unit, Stability unit, or Detection unit, as the case may be.
                RG                                    RS                 Exemplary Functional Groups
 1) R'-SH                             -5-                                R'-S-R"
                                                                         R'-S-S-R"
                                                       14

2) R'-C(=O)OH                      -C(=0)-                            R'-C(=O)NH-R"
3) R'-C(=O)ONHS                    -C(=0)-                            R'-C(=O)NH-R"
4) R'S(=0) 2 -OH                   -S(=0)2-                           R'S(=0) 2NH-R"
5) R'-CH 2-X (X is Br, I, Cl)      -CH 2-                             R'-CH 2 -S-R"
6) R'-NH 2                         -N-                                R'-NHC(=O)R"
It will be understood that, once reacted, the reactive site RS can form a new bond with
components of the Linker unit or the Drug unit, as the case may be. The reactive site, RS, once
linked to the remainder of the Linker unit has typically lost its reactivity.
[0053]     The term "dilactam" as used herein refers to a cyclic amide that forms from a macro
cyclicization reaction with a thio-substituted succinimide and base present on the self-stabilizing
linker assembly.
General
[0054]     Hydrolysis of a maleimide (or thio-substituted succinimide) represents a nucleophilic
addition reaction in which water, acting as the nucleophile, attacks one of the electrophilic
carbonyl carbon atoms of the maleimide ring (or succinimide ring). The rate of this reaction is
influenced by electrophilicity of the carbonyls, which can vary with the substitution of electron
donating or electron-withdrawing groups present on the nitrogen of the imide group. The rate of
the hydrolysis reaction is also influenced by the pH of an aqueous solvent, which effectively
increases the nucleophilicity of water with increasing pH. It has been discovered by the present
inventors that the placement of a basic group on an N-substituted maleimide also increases the
rate of the hydrolysis. By careful engineering of an N-substituent group on the maleimide, the
combination of its electron withdrawing influence on the maleimide ring (thus increasing its
electrophilicity) and localized basicity (increasing the effective nucleophilicity of nearby water)
can be used to tune the rate of hydrolysis of either the parent maleimide or its thio-substituted
                                                   15

succinimide derivative.       The present invention provides, inter alia, N-substituted maleimides
with hydrolysis rates that fall within a useful range wherein their reaction with thiols occurs
more quickly than their hydrolysis to the maleic acid derivative, but which yield thio-substituted
succinimides with hydrolysis rates that are sufficiently rapid to achieve complete hydrolysis
under gentle conditions that are very suitable for the manufacture of protein-based bioconjugates.
[0055]      The present invention is based, in part, on the discovery that a basic functional group
proximal to a maleimide will catalyze the hydrolysis of a thio-substituted succinimide which is
formed upon conjugation of the maleimide and a protein thiol leading to a stable bioconjugate.
By further combining a proximal basic group with an electron withdrawing group, the rate of
thio-substituted succinimide ring hydrolysis can be tuned to a desirable level. Design parameters
that affect the rate of hydrolysis include the pKa of the basic group, the strength of the electron
withdrawing group when present, and the proximity of both groups to the maleimide carbonyl
carbons. Design parameters that affect the percentage hydrolysis include the nature and
proximity of the base to the maleimide carbonyl carbons.
[0056]      Conceptually, without limiting the invention, a Linker unit comprising a self-stabilizing
linker assembly is referred to herein as a Self-Stabilizing Linker or Self-Stabilizing Linker unit.
The Self-Stabilizing Linker prior to conjugation with the Ligand unit comprises a maleimide
group. The Self-Stabilizing Linker is self-stabilizing by virtue of the proximity of the maleimide
group to a base within the Linker unit which catalyzes the hydrolysis of its own thio-substituted
succinimide after conjugation to the Ligand unit. This is represented schematically below:
               0         DRUG                   0          DRUG                  0         DRUG
         SH                                         N    Q                          N '<
 Ligand-   S+            B E  U        Ligand-/               SE       Ligand           H HEE+
                     0
                                                                P-HOH
[0057]      It will be understood that the term Self-Stabilizing Linker refers to the Linker unit both
prior to and post stabilization.
[0058]      In view of the above, the present invention provides in one group of embodiments, a
Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate comprising a Ligand unit and at least one Functional Agent
selected from a Drug unit, a Detection Unit, or a Stabilizing Unit, wherein the Ligand unit and
                                                    16

each of the Functional Agent(s) are joined by a self-stabilizing linker assembly comprising a
succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring directly conjugated to the Ligand unit via a
thioether linkage; and a base and an electron withdrawing group (conjugated to the Ligand unit
via the succinimide) operably linked to stabilize the conjugate in plasma relative to a ligand drug
conjugate lacking the self-stabilizing linker assembly (i.e. by increasing the rate of succinimide
ring hydrolysis). In some aspects, the electron withdrawing group is positioned to increase the
electrophilicity of the succinimide rendering it more reactive with water and the base is
positioned to assist the hydrolysis of the succinimide ring (e.g., by an intramolecular base
catalysis mechanism). In some aspects, in place of the succinimide ring is a dilactam formed
when the base reacts with the succinimide ring. In another group of embodiments, Functional
Agent-Linker units are provided wherein the Linker portion comprises a self-stabilizing linker
assembly. In another group of embodiments, Ligand-Linker conjugates are provided, wherein
the Linker portion comprises a self-stabilizing linker assembly. In some embodiments, the Linker
portion further comprises an optional secondary linker assembly (L0 ).
[0059]    In some aspects, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is a Ligand-Drug Conjugate.
Accordingly, the present invention provides in one group of embodiments, a Ligand-Drug
Conjugate comprising a Ligand unit and at least one Drug unit, wherein the Ligand unit and each
of the Drug unit(s) are joined by a self-stabilizing linker assembly comprising a succinimide ring
or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring directly conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage;
and a base and an electron withdrawing group (conjugated to the Ligand unit via the succinimide
ring) operably linked to stabilize the conjugate in plasma relative to a ligand drug conjugate
lacking the self-stabilizing linker assembly (i.e. by increasing the rate of succinimide ring
hydrolysis). In some aspects, the electron withdrawing group is positioned to increase the
electrophilicity of the succinimide rendering it more reactive with water and the base is
positioned to assist the hydrolysis of the succinimide ring (e.g., by an intramolecular base
catalysis mechanism). In some aspects, in place of the succinimide ring is a dilactam formed
when the base reacts with the succinimide ring. In another group of embodiments, Drug-Linker
units are provided wherein the Linker portion comprises a self-stabilizing linker assembly. In
another group of embodiments, Ligand-Linker conjugates are provided, wherein the Linker
portion comprises a self-stabilizing linker assembly. In some embodiments, the Linker portion
further comprises an optional secondary linker assembly (L0 ). In some embodiments, the
                                                   17

secondary linker assembly is a releasable linker assembly (LR) which comprises a Cleavable unit
and optionally one or more of a Stretcher and a Spacer unit. In some other embodiments, the
secondary linker assembly is a non-releasable linker assembly (LN) which comprises one or more
of a Stretcher unit and a Spacer unit. In still other embodiments, the invention provides methods
of treating cancer, immune disease, infectious diseases and other diseases and disorders using a
Ligand-Drug Conjugate comprising a self-stabilizing linker assembly.
[0060]      The Linker unit of the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate (or Ligand-Drug Conjugate)
can further comprise, in addition to a self-stabilizing linker assembly, an optional secondary
linker assembly (L 0 ) which joins each Functional Agent (or Drug unit) to the self-stabilizing
linker assembly. The secondary linker assembly can be a releasable linker assembly or a non
releasable linker assembly.
[0061]      The term Linker unit can be used herein to refer to the linker portion of the Ligand
Functional Agent Conjugate (or Ligand-Drug Conjugate) comprising the self-stabilizing linker
assembly and optional secondary linker assembly.
The Self-Stabilizing Linker Assembly
[0062]      The Self-Stabilizing Linkers are designed such that the rate of the post-conjugation
hydrolysis of the succinimide ring will be controllable and fall within a desired range. The
limits of this range are typically dictated by issues which arise in the manufacture of ligand-drug
conjugates. On the one hand, hydrolysis which is too slow would require unacceptable delays in
the manufacturing process or aggressive conditions of pH and temperature which may induce
damage to the protein backbone.           Conversely, a maleimide which is too reactive with water may
be hydrolyzed to the corresponding maleic acid derivative before it can react with available
protein thiols (see undesired pathway):
    undesired pathway                                               desired pathway
                   H H2O   0        Protei SH                   H20         H            R           S       R
                 H -4--                             sN'         H 0         HDo        H    +             wR
                N _R       oProtein(                   0WR             Prte s          NR            5
                                                                                             Protein' H
                                                                       PrteProte     i        rotir{HO
   hydrolyzed maleimide maleimide        thio-substituted succinimide             hydrolyzed succinimide
  (maleic acid derivative)                                                    (2 possible positional isomers)
                                                           18

Such maleic acid derivatives are not reactive with thiols, and thus this reaction pathway does not
result in a bioconjugate. Therefore, maleimides which undergo hydrolysis faster than thiol
addition under applicable conditions are not useful reagents. In general, structural features
which increase the hydrolysis rate of a thio-substituted succinimide will also increase the
hydrolysis rate of the parent maleimide.
[0063]     In designing the Self-Stabilizing Linkers of the present invention, it will be understood
that the pKa of the basic group, the strength of the electron withdrawing group(s), and the
proximity of both groups to the maleimide are inter-related variables and will affect the
hydrolysis rate of both the maleimide and corresponding thio-substituted succinimide product.
Accordingly, positioning of the electron withdrawing group and base will be dependent upon the
pKa of the base and the strength of the electron withdrawing group(s). The skilled artisan will
understand that for particularly strong electron withdrawing groups such as fluoro,
trifluoromethyl, and nitro, the group can be further from the maleimide. In some embodiments,
the hydrolysis reaction may compete with a macro-cyclization reaction such that the resultant
conjugates comprise a heterogenous mixture of hydrolyzed thio-substituted succinimide
conjugates and cyclized thio-substituted dilactam conjugates. In preferred embodiments, a
dilactam will not be formed.
           Selected Embodiments of the Invention
[0064]     In some embodiments, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by
Formula I:
                                         BU              b
                          L  M-(HE)r                (HE)q    LO-    D)
                                             (HE)m                     a
                                            LSS
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof);
wherein
                                                   19

L is a Ligand unit;
D' is a Drug unit, a Detection unit, or a Stability unit;
Lo is the optional secondary linker assembly; and
Lss is the self-stabilizing linker assembly, wherein
         M' is a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide or together with BU forms a
         dilactam;
         BU is a Basic unit;
         HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
         the circle represents a scaffold that can be C1.8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6    10
         arylene, or C4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or D';
         the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
         that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C6 10 arylene or C4 .1 o heteroarylene;
         the subscript a and b are each 0 or 1, and the sum of a+b is 1; and
         the subscript p ranges from 1 to 20.
[0065]     In some aspects, when r is 1, HE does not comprise a carbonyl group,(i.e., C(=O))
[0066]     In some aspects, r is zero. In some aspects, a is 1 and b is zero. In other aspects, a is
zero and b is 1.
[0067]     In some aspects m + q + r is 0. In such aspects, the scaffold is a C.10 arylene or C4.io
heteroarylene and acts as the electron withdrawing group. Exemplary aryls and heteroaryls
include phenyl and pyridinyl.
[0068]     In some aspects m + q + r is 1 or 2.
[0069]     In some aspects, the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein a
is 1 and r is zero.
[0070]     In some aspects, the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein L0
is present and is a releasable linker assembly, the circle represents a scaffold that is C1.8 alkylene
or C1.8 heteroalkylene (preferably C 1 .4 alkylene or C1 .4 heteroalkylene), a is 1, r is zero, and the
sum of m+q is 1. In some such aspects, the scaffold is C 1 .3 alkylene or C 1 .3 heteroalkylene. In
some such aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched.
                                                     20

[0071]     In some aspects, the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein L 0
is present and is a releasable linker assembly, the circle represents a scaffold that is C1.8 alkylene
or C1.8 heteroalkylene (preferably C 1 .4 alkylene or C1 .4 heteroalkylene), a is 1, and m and r are
zero. In some such aspects, the scaffold is C 1 .3 alkylene or C1 .3 heteroalkylene. In some such
aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched.
[0072]     In some aspects, the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein L 0
is present and is a releasable linker assembly, the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1 , C2 , C3 or
C4 straight or branched chain alkylene, a is 1, r is zero, and the sum of m+q is 1.
[0073]     In some aspects, the Conjugate is represented by Formula I or a salt thereof wherein L 0
is present and is a releasable linker assembly, the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1, C2 , C3 or
C4 straight or branched chain alkylene, a is 1, and m and r are zero.
[0074]     In some aspects, there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between
the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non
hydrolyzed) or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms, no more than 4 atoms, no more than
3 atoms, or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the
nitrogen atom of the succinimide ring (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam.
[0075]     In each of these embodiments, the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain can be straight or
branched. In some aspects, the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a straight chain. In other
aspects, it will be branched.
[0076]     In each of these embodiments, p can range from 1 to 20, preferably 1 to 12, even more
preferably I to 10, or I to 8.
[0077]     In each of these embodiments, M' is preferably a succinimide ring (i.e., non
hydrolyzed) or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring (also referred to herein as hydrolyzed
succinimide).
[0078]      In each of these embodiments, D' can be a Drug unit, D, and the Ligand-Functional
Agent Conjugate can be a Ligand-Drug conjugate.
[0079]     In some aspects wherein the scaffold itself is directly linked to the optional secondary
linker assembly or D', (for example, in select embodiments when q is zero or when q is zero and
                                                   21

r is zero), the scaffold will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to the optional
secondary linker assembly or D'.
[0080]      In some embodiments, the self-stabilizing linker assembly (Lss) is represented by
Formula II:
                                                      BU
                                    -M-(HE)r         0(HE)q
                                                           (HE)m
                                                        -Y
                                                         LSS
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt) wherein the wavy lines indicates points
for attachment of the optional secondary linker assembly to D' or D, and wherein // indicates the
point of attachment to a Ligand Unit. In the self-stabilizing linker assembly above, MI
represents a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring or a dilactam formed when the
base reacts with the succinimide ring, BU is a Basic unit, HE is a hydrolysis enhancer
comprising an electron withdrawing group, and the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8
alkylene, C 1.8 heteroalkylene, C 6 .10 arylene, or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a
reactive site suitable for attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly, D', or D; and the
subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided that if m + q
+ r is 0, the scaffold is a C6 .10 arylene or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene.
[0081]      In some aspects, when r is 1, HE does not comprise a carbonyl group,(i.e., C(=O))
[0082]      In some aspects, the self-stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II
wherein r is zero.
[0083]      In some aspects m + q + r is 0. In such aspects, the C6 .10 arylene or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene
act as the electron withdrawing group. Exemplary aryls and heteroaryls include phenyl and
pyridinyl.
[0084]      In some aspects m + q + r is 1 or 2.
                                                        22

[0085]     In some aspects, the self-stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a
salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1.8 alkylene or C 1.8 heteroalkylene
(preferably C 1 4 alkylene or heteroalkylene), r is zero, and the sum of m+q is 1. In some such
aspects, the scaffold is C 1 .3 alkylene or C1 .3 heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the alkylene is
a straight chain or branched alkylene.
[0086]     In some aspects, the self-stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a
salt thereof wherein, the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1.8 alkylene or C 1.8 heteroalkylene
(preferably C 1 .4 alkylene or heteroalkylene) and m and r are zero. In some such aspects, the
scaffold is C 1 .3 alkylene or C 1 .3 heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the alkylene is a straight
chain or branched alkylene.
[0087]     In some aspects, the self-stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a
salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1, C2 , C3 , or C 4 straight or branched
chain alkylene, r is zero, and the sum of m+q is 1.
[0088]     In some aspects, the self-stabilizing linker assembly is represented by Formula II or a
salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1, C2 , C3 , or C 4 straight or branched
chain alkylene, and m and r are zero.
[0089]     In some aspects, there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between
the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non
hydrolyzed) or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms, no more than 4 atoms, no more than
3 atoms, or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the
nitrogen atom of the succinimide ring (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam.
[0090]     In each of these embodiments, the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will preferably be a
straight or branched chain. In some aspects, the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a
straight chain. In other aspects, it will be a branched chain.
[0091]     In each of these embodiments, M' is preferably a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed
succinimide ring.
[0092]     In each of these embodiments, D' is preferably D, a Drug unit.
                                                      23

[0093]     Returning to the embodiments of the invention wherein the Ligand-Functional Agent
Conjugate has the Formula (I):
                                         BU)LO-D'         b
                        L   MI-(HE)r                (HE)q    LO  D)
                                             (HE)m                  a
                                                                        p
                                            LSS
or a salt thereof, wherein each of the scaffold, L, M , HE, BU, L , D', and the subscripts p, a, b,
m, q and r have the meanings provided above, selected embodiments include those wherein:
1) m is 1, and q and r are 0;
2) q is 1, and m and r are 0;
3) r is 1, and m and q are 0;
4) m is 1, q and r are 0, and a is 1;
5) q is 1, m and r are 0, and a is 1;
6) r is 1, m and q are 0, and a is 1;
7) m is 1, q and r are 0, and D' is a Drug unit, D;
8) q is 1, m and r are 0, and D' is a Drug unit, D;
9) r is 1, m and q are 0, and D' is a Drug unit, D;
10) m is 1, q and r are 0, a is 1, and D' is a Drug unit, D;
11) q is 1, m and r are 0, a is 1, and D' is a Drug unit, D; or
12) r is 1, m and q are 0, a is 1, and D' is a Drug unit, D.
                                                   24

[0094]     In other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9), 10), 11), and 12) above , the Basic unit (BU)
comprises a primary, a secondary amine, or a tertiary amine. In still other selected embodiments,
including those based on each of the selected embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9), 10),
 11), and 12) above, the Basic unit is selected from the group consisting of -(C(R 9 )( R1"))xNH 2 ,
(C(R 9 )( R10 ))xNHRa, and -(C(R 9 )( R 0 ))xNRa2, wherein x is an integer of from 0-4 (or from 1 to
4) and each Ra is independently selected from the group consisting of C1 6 alkyl and C1 .6
haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an
azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group, provided that if x is zero there are no less than 2
intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide
(hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam, and each R9 and Rio are independently selected
from H or Ci- alkyl. In still other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the
selected embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9), 10), 11), and 12) above, the Basic unit is
selected from the group consisting of -(CH 2 )xNH 2 , -(CH 2 )xNHRa, and       -(CH 2 )xNRa  2,wherein
x is an integer of from 0 to 6 (preferably 0 to 4, or 1 to 4) provided that if x is zero there are no
less than 2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the
succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam, and each Ra is independently selected
from the group consisting of C1 6 alkyl and C1 6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with
the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group.
In yet other selected embodiments, x is an integer of from 1 to 4. In even other selected
embodiments, including those based on each of the selected embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6),
7), 8), 9), 10), 11), and 12) above, the Basic unit is -NH 2, -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 CH 2NH 2 ,
CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2, or -CH 2 CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2 provided that if the Basic unit is -NH 2 , there are
no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide
(hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam.
[0095]     In still other selected embodiments, including those based on the selected embodiments
of 2), 5), 8), and 11) above and including those based on the embodiments of the preceding
paragraph, HE preferably comprises a carbonyl, sulfonyl or phosphoryl moiety.
[0096]     In yet other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above (e.g., each of the selected embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9), 10),
                                                   25

 11), and 12) above and including those based on the embodiments of the preceding paragraphs),
there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit
and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam and there
are no more than 5 atoms, no more than 4 atoms, no more than 3 atoms, or no more than 2
intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom of the
succinimide ring (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam.
[0097]     In yet other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above (e.g., each of the selected embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9), 10),
 11), and 12) above and including those based on the embodiments of the preceding paragraphs,
M' is a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide.
[0098]     In yet other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above (e.g., each of the selected embodiments of 1), 2) 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8), 9), 10),
 11), and 12) above and including those based on the embodiments of the preceding paragraphs,
the circle represents a scaffold that is C1.8 alkylene or C1.8 heteroalkylene (preferably C 14
alkylene or C 14 heteroalkylene). In some such aspects the alkylene is a straight or branched
chain alkylene.
[0099]     In yet other selected embodiments, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates have the
formula:
                                         BU
                                L   MI              (HE)-LO -D'
                                                                       p
                                            LSS
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of the scaffold, L, M , HE, BU, L0 ,
D', and the subscript p has the meaning provided above, selected embodiments include those
wherein:
                                                   26

 1) the Basic unit (BU) comprises a primary, a secondary amine, or a tertiary amine, and D' is
preferably a Drug unit D.
2) the Basic unit is selected from the group consisting of -(C(R 9 )( R1 0 ))xNH 2 , -(C(R 9 )( R' 0
))xNHRa, and -(C(R9)( R' ))xNRa2, wherein x is an integer of from 0-4 (or 1-4) and each Ra is
independently selected from the group consisting of C 1.6 alkyl and C1 .6 haloalkyl, or two Ra
groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl,
pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group, provided that if x is zero, there are no less than 2 intervening
atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed
or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam, and R9 and R10 are independently selected from H or C1 3 alkyl,
and D' is preferably a Drug unit D.
3) the Basic unit is selected from the group consisting of -(CH 2 )xNH 2, -(CH       2 )xNHRa, and
-(CH   2 )xNRa 2, wherein    x is an integer of from 0 to 6 (preferably 0 to 4 or 1 to 4) provided that if
x is zero, there are no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the
nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam, and each Ra is
independently selected from the group consisting of C 1.6 alkyl and C1 .6 haloalkyl, or two Ra
groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl,
pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group, and D' is preferably a Drug unit D. In yet other selected
embodiments, X is an integer of from 1 to 4.
4) the Basic unit is -NH 2, -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2 , or
-CH 2CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2 provided that if the Basic unit is -NH 2, there are no less than 2
intervening atoms between the base and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or
non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam; and D' is preferably a Drug unit D.
[0100]      In still other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, HE comprises a carbonyl, sulfonyl or phosphoryl moiety, and D' is
preferably a Drug unit D.
[0101]      In yet other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between the
base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed)
or dilactam and there are no more than 5 atoms, no more than 4 atoms, no more than 3 atoms, or
                                                     27

no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the nitrogen atom
of the succinimide ring (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam, and D' is preferably a Drug
unit (D).
[0102]     In yet other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, M' is a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide, and D' is preferably a
Drug unit (D).
[0103]     In yet other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1.8 alkylene or C 1.8 heteroalkylene
(preferably C 1 4 alkylene or C 1 4 heteroalkylene), and D' is preferably a Drug unit (D). In some
such aspects, the alkylene is a straight chain or branched chain alkylene.
[0104]     In still other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, HE is a carbonyl, and D' is preferably a Drug unit (D).
[0105]     In still other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, HE is a carbonyl and the circle represents a scaffold that is a straight chain
C1.8 alkylene or C 1.8 heteroalkylene (preferably C 1 .4 alkylene or C1 .4 heteroalkylene), and D' is
preferably a Drug unit (D).
[0106]     In still other selected embodiments, including those based on each of the selected
embodiments above, HE is a carbonyl and the circle represents a scaffold that is a branched
chain C 1.8 alkylene or C 1.8 heteroalkylene (preferably C 1 .4 alkylene or C1 .4 heteroalkylene), and
D' is preferably a Drug unit (D).
[0107]     In yet other selected embodiments, Ligand-Drug Conjugates have the formula:
                                            (BU)
                                  Ab     M1                LO-     D
                                                 0                      p
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the Ligand portion is an antibody (Ab), the
subscript p ranges from I to 20 (preferably I to 12), and M , BU, L0 are as described in any of
the embodiments provided herein, and D is a Drug unit. For example, in some aspects, L' is a
                                                   28

releasable linker assembly, and BU is -(CH      2 )xNH 2, -(CH   2 )xNHRa,  and -(CH 2 )xNRa 2, wherein
x is an integer of from 1-4 and each Ra is independently selected from the group consisting of C1 .
6 alkyl and C 1-6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are
attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group. In yet other aspects, Lo is a
releasable linker assembly, and BU is -CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 CH 2CH 2 NH 2 , or
CH 2CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2 . In some aspects, the Ab can be replaced by a non-antibody protein. M
is preferably a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring.
[0108]     In yet other selected embodiments, the Ligand-Drug Conjugates have the formula:
                                              BU      0O
                                  Ab      M1                L0
                                                                         p
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the Ligand portion is an antibody (Ab) and
the subscript p ranges from I to 20 (preferably I to 12) and M , BU, and L0 are as described in
any of the embodiments provided herein, and D is a Drug unit. For example, in some aspects,
Lo is a releasable linker assembly, and BU is -(CH      2 )xNH 2 , -(CH 2 )xNHRa,  and -(CH 2 )xNRa 2,
wherein x is an integer of from 1-4 and each Ra is independently selected from the group
consisting of C1 _6 alkyl and C1 _6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the nitrogen to
which they are attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group. In yet other
aspects, L0 is a releasable linker assembly, and BU is -CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CH 2NH 2, -CH 2 CH 2CH 2
NH 2, or -CH 2 CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2. In some aspects, the Ab can be replaced by a non-antibody
protein. M' is preferably a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring.
[0109]     In yet other selected embodiments, the Ligand-Drug Conjugates have the formula:
                                                0
                                                             LO-D
                             Ab      M1
                                                                       /
                                             BU
                                                                             p
                                                     29

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein the Ligand portion is an antibody (Ab), the
                                                              1           0
subscript p ranges from 1 to 20 (preferably 1 to 12), and M , BU, and L are as described in any
of the embodiments provided herein and D is a Drug unit. For example, in some aspects, Lo is a
releasable linker assembly, and BU is -(CH    2 )xNH 2, -(CH 2 )xNHRa, and -(CH  2 )xNRa 2, wherein
x is an integer of from 0-4 and each Ra is independently selected from the group consisting of C1 .
6 alkyl and C 1-6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are
attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group. In yet other aspects, Lo is a
releasable linker assembly, and BU is -NH 2 ,     -CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CH 2NH 2 , -CH 2CH 2 CH 2 NH 2 , or
-CH 2CH 2CH 2CH 2 NH 2 . In some aspects, the Ab can be replaced by a non-antibody protein. M
is preferably a succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed succinimide ring.
[0110]     Having described a variety of Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates and Ligand-Drug
Conjugates provided by the present disclosure, one of skill in the art will appreciate that
component assemblies are also useful. Accordingly, the present invention provides Fuctional
Agent-Linker Conjugates (e.g., Drug-Linker Conjugates), Linkers, and Ligand-Linker
assemblies.
Functional Agent-Linker Conjugates
[0111]     In another embodiment, the present invention provides Functional Agent-Linker
Conjugates (e.g., Drug-Linker Conjugates) having the formula:
                                 O           BU     L
                                   N-(HE)r
                                                   HEm(HE)q
                                                                 LO -D'
                                                  (H E)ma
                                           Y
                                           Lss
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt) wherein,
D' is a Drug unit, a Detection unit, or a Stability unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly; and
Lss is the self-stabilizing linker assembly, wherein
                                                   30

        BU is a Basic unit;
        HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
        the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6.10
         arylene, or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or D';
        the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
        that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C6. 1o arylene or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene, and
        the subscript a and b are each 0 or 1, and the sum of a+b is 1.
[0112]     In certain selected embodiments, the Functional Agent-Linker Conjugate is represented
by the formula:
                                           0
                                                BU
                                           N               (HE)-LO -D'
or a salt thereof, while in other selected embodiments, the Drug-Linker Conjugate is represented
by the formulae:
                                     0
                                                 BU      0
                                            N                  LO-D
                                                0
                                                     31

                                             0
                               /         N       (BU)           LO-   D
                                 o                    0
                                                     or
                                             0
                                                 (BU)
                                        /N N
                                                                LO-D
                                 o                    0
or a salt thereof, wherein the circle, HE, BU, L0 and D' have the meanings provided herein for
Formula I and D is a Drug unit. Additionally, each of the specifically recited selected
embodiments for the circle, HE, BU, L0 and D' (for Formula I or any of the conjugates provided
herein) are equally applicable to these Drug-Linker Conjugates. In preferred aspects D' is a Drug
unit, D.
           Linkers
[0113]     Also provided herein are Linkers having the formula:
                                O                     LO-RG
                                               BU             '
                                  N-(HE)r                 (HE)q      LO-RG
                                                    (HE)m
                                0
                                             Lss
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein
                                                     32

RG is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at the terminus of L , suitable for attaching a
Drug unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly that is present; and
Lss is the self-stabilizing linker assembly, wherein
         BU is a Basic unit;
         HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
         the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6.10
         arylene, or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit;
         the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
         that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C6. 1o arylene or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene; and
        the subscript a and b are each 0 or 1, and the sum of a+b is 1.
[0114]     In some aspects wherein the Linker is attached to a Detection unit or a Stability unit,
RG is a reactive group that contains a reactive site that is capable of forming a bond with a
Detection unit or a Stability unit instead of a Drug unit.
[0115]     In certain selected embodiments, the Linker is represented by the formula:
                                         o    BU
                                           N~             (HE)-    LO -      RG
                                         0Y
                                            LSS
or a salt thereof, while in other selected embodiments, the Linker is represented by the formulae:
                                                     33

                                  0
                                                BU
                                         N                 LO-RG)
                                              0
                                           0
                              /        N       BU           LO-RG)
                                0                 0                    or
                                            0
                                    /             ~BULoR)
                                 0                 0
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt) wherein the circle, HE, BU, Lo and RG
have the meanings provided above. Additionally, each of the specifically recited selected
embodiments for BU, L 0 and RG (for any of the conjugates provided herein) are equally
applicable to these Linkers.
           Ligand-Linker Conjugates
101161     Also provided herein are Ligand-Linker Conjugates, having the formula:
                                                  34

                                             BU (LO-       R b
                             L   M-   (HE)r              (HE)q   LO -R
                                                 (HE)m                        a
                                                                                  p
                                                LSS
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt) wherein
L is a Ligand unit;
the subscript p ranges from 1 to 20;
RG is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at the terminus of Lo which is suitable for
         attaching a Drug unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly that is present; and
Lss is a self-stabilizing linker assembly, wherein
        M' is a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide;
        BU is a Basic unit;
        HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
        the circle represents a scaffold that can be C1.8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6.10
         arylene, or C4 .1 o heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit;
        the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
        that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C6. 1o arylene or C4 .1 o heteroarylene; and
           the subscript a and b are each 0 or 1, and the sum of a+b is 1.
[0117]     In some aspects wherein the Ligand-Linker Conjugate is attached to a Detection unit or
a Stability unit instead of a Drug unit, RG is a reactive group that contains a reactive site that is
capable of forming a bond with a Detection unit or a Stability unit instead of a Drug unit.
[0118]     In certain selected embodiments, the Ligand-Linker Conjugate is represented by the
formula:
                                                     35

                                        BU
                               L    M1            (HE)-Lo -RG
                                          LSS
or a salt thereof while in other selected embodiments, the Ligand-Linker Conjugate is
represented by the formula:
                                            BU
                                 Ab      M1               LO-RG)
                                                o                    P
                                           BU
                                                  0
                                 Ab     M1            LO-     RG)
                                                                   P or
                                               0
                                                         Lo-RG)
                             Ab      M1
                                            BU
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein L is an antibody (Ab), and the
circle, HE, M , BU, L0 and RG have the meanings provided above. Additionally, each of the
specifically recited selected embodiments for Ab, M , BU, L0 and RG (for any of the conjugates
provided herein) are equally applicable to these Ligand-Linker conjugates.
                                                   36

[0119]    In some embodiments of the invention, the self-stabilizing linker assembly instead of
being represented by the structure for Lss is represented by LTT and has Formula (III):
                        V    R          n        G     RS
                                             d
                               (TK
                                    B
                                  LTT
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the wavy line indicates points of
attachment of the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit and wherein // indicates the
point of attachment to a Ligand unit;
wherein M' is a non-hydrolyzed or hydrolyzed succinimide or M' forms a dilactam with B (e.g.,
a dilactam is formed when B reacts with the succinimide ring), wherein the succinimide or
dilactam is conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage;
        V,  Q, T, and  G are independently selected from -(C(R 9)( RIO))-;
        R' is H or Ci 3 alkyl;
        R9 and R10 are, in each occurrence, independently selected from H or C1 _3 alkyl;
        F is C(E )( E 2) wherein EI and E2 are independently selected from hydrogen, an electron
withdrawing group, or E and E2 together are (=0);
        RS is a reactive site for conjugation to a component of the optional secondary linker
assembly or Drug unit;
        g is 0 to 5;
        m is 0 to 5;
        n is 0 to 5;
        d is 0 or 1;
        x is 0 to 4, provided that when m is 0, x is 1 to 4;
        and B is a base.
[0120] In some aspects, there are from 1 to 20 drug-linkers attached to each Ligand unit.
                                                  37

[0121]   In selected embodiments, Ligand-Drug Conjugates have the formula:
        L M              R               F     G    RS-L-D
                                B
                                                                    p
                                                                      (Ila)
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0122]   In selected embodiments, Drug-linkers have the formula:
                   0
                                                      G   RS-   L-D
                            V    R         Q
                     N
                                  (T
                                         B
                   0                                                      (IlIb)
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0123]   In selected embodiments, Linkers have the formula
               0
                     NV YRQ                  FG        RS-LO-RG
                          m              n
                                  X"B
               O                                                       (IIc)
                                                 38

      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0124]      In selected embodiments, Ligand-Linker Conjugates have the formula:
                                                                L-RG
          L   M          m RF
                                               d
                               (TK
                                      B
                                                                          p
                                                                             (1I1d)
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
In formulas Ila, IlIb, IIIc, and IIld or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof:
        L, if present, is a Ligand unit;
        Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly;
        RG, if present, is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at the terminus of L0 which
         is suitable for attaching a Drug unit;
        M', if present, is a non-hydrolyzed or hydrolyzed succinimide or M, forms a dilactam
        with B (e.g., a dilactam is formed when the base reacts with the succinimide ring),
        wherein the succinimide or dilactam is conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether
         linkage;
        V,   Q, T, and  G are independently selected from -(C(R 9)( R10 ))-;
                  R' is H or C1 _3 alkyl;
                  R 9 and R1 0 are, in each occurrence, independently selected from H or C1 _3 alkyl;
                  F is C(E1 )(E 2 ) wherein EI and E2 are independently selected from hydrogen, an
electron withdrawing group, or E and E2 together are (=0);
                  RS is a reactive site for conjugation to a component of the optional secondary
linker assembly or Drug unit;
         g is 0 to 5;
        m is 0 to 5;
        n is 0 to 5;
                                                     39

         d is 0 or 1;
        x is 0 to 4, provided that when m is 0, x is 1 to 4;
        p, if present, ranges from 1 to 20, preferably 1 to 12;
         and B is a base.
[0125]      It will be understood that for Formula III (including Ila, IlIb, IIIc, and IIld) and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, the electron withdrawing group will either be
represented by F (e.g., E I, E2 or E and E 2) or by the reactive site RS. For example, when d is
zero, or when E and E2 are hydrogen, the reactive site will act as an electron withdrawing group.
In some aspects, when d is zero, RS is -C(=O)-.       In some aspects, n, d, and g are zero or m, n, d,
and g are zero and RS is -C(=0)-.
[0126]      Exemplary embodiments wherein the Ligand-Drug Conjugates, Drug-Linkers, Linkers,
or Ligand-Linker conjugates are represented by Formula III (or formulae Ila, IlIb, IIIc, or IIld,
as the case may be) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, include those wherein m is
zero; m is zero and n is zero, one, two, or three; x is 1; x is zero and n is zero, one, two, or three;
and m is zero, n is zero, and x is 1. Exemplary embodiments include those described herein
wherein R9 and R10 are hydrogen. Exemplary embodiments include those wherein E, and E2 are
independently selected from H, -CN, -NO 2 , -CX 3 wherin X is halogen or E and E2 together are
(=0). The remainder of the substituents are as defined.
[0127]      Exemplary embodiments wherein the Ligand-Drug Conjugates, Drug-Linkers, Linkers,
or Ligand-Linker conjugates are represented by Formula III (or formulae Ila, IlIb, IIIc, or IIld,
as the case may be) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include those wherein:
       (i) El and E2 are independently selected from hydrogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -CX 3 , and -X wherein
                X is halogen or EI and E2 together are (=0);
       (ii)     m is zero and n is zero, one two or three;
       (iii)    x is 1;
       (iv)     x is 4;
       (v)      x is zero, and n is zero, one , two or three;
                                                    40

      (vi)      m is zero, n is zero, and x is 1;
      (vii)     d is 1 and g is 1 to 5;
      (viii)    d is 1 and g is 2 to 5;
      (ix)      n, d, and g are zero;
      (x)       m, n, d, and g are zero;
      (xi)      RS is -C(=O)-;
      (xii)     E and E2 are together (=0);
      (xiii)    B is
                      NRs
                                  (CH 2 )e            NR5      NR
                                    I      I                            H2N
                  H2N
                                -R6                        N               NH
                                             N                        HN       NR7 R8
                           NHR 7               N7R8R      NH       R7 HN      NR 8
                        N)     NHR 8
             R5
                  N~   N
                                         6
             NNRSR
        N                           N    R
                              .'vv R                 3    43             4    5   6   7  8
                                            ,or -N(R )(R4), wherein R R4, R , R, R' and R are
independently selected from H or C1 -6 alkyl and e is 0 to 4;
                                                       41

(xiv)   B is - N(R3 )(R 4 ), wherein R3 and R 4 are independently selected from H or CI-6
        alkyl;
(xv)    B is as in (xiii) or (xiv) and R3, R4, R , R6, R and R8 are independently selected
        from H or C 1 .3 alkyl;
                                              4
                                              3
(xvi)   B is as in (xiii) or (xiv) and R3, R4,  R5 , R6,6 R7 and R88 are independently selected
        from H or methyl;
(xvii)   B is as in (xiii) or (xiv) or (xvi) and R 3 and R 4 are hydrogen;
(xviii) B is as in (xiii) or (xiv) or (xvi) and at least one of R3 and R4 are hydrogen;
(xix)     B is as in (xiii) or (xiv) or (xvi) and at least one of R3 and R 4 is not hydrogen;
(xx)    R , R 9 , and R   0 are independently selected from H or methyl;
(xxi)   R1 , R 9 , and R 10 are hydrogen;
(xxii) R1 , R 9 , and R 10 are independently selected from H or methyl;
(xxiii) The cleavable unit is present;
(xxiv) The cleavable unit is present and has the formula
      -(A-AA)1-6-; wherein AA is at each occurrence independently selected from an
      amino acid;
(xxv)    The cleavable unit is present and conjugated directly to the Drug unit;
(xxvi) The cleavable unit is present and conjugated directly to the Drug unit via a
        cleavable peptide, disulfide, or hydrazone bond;
(xxvii) The cleavable unit is present and the Spacer and Stretcher unit are absent;
(xxviii)The Drug is an auristatin;
(xxix) M' is a hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed succinimide;
(xxx)   p is about 4;
(xxxi) p is about 8;
                                              42

        (xxxii) the tl/2 of hydrolysis of the thio-substituted succinimide of the Self-Stabilizing
                 Linker unit is from about 10 minutes to about 2.5 hours at pH 7.4 and 22 'C;
        (xxxiii)the t1/2 of hydrolysis of the thio-substituted succinimide of the Self-Stabilizing
                 Liinker unit is from about 10 minutes to about 1 hour at pH 7.4 and 22 'C;
        (xxxiv)the t1/2 of hydrolysis of the thio-substituted succinimide of the Self-Stabilizing
                 Linker unit is from about 10 minutes to about 30 minutes at pH 7.4 and 22 'C;
        (xxxv) the Ligand unit is an antibody;
        (xxxvi)the Ligand unit is an antibody and is attached to the Linker unit though a cysteine
                 residue of an interchain disulfide;
        (xxxvii) the Ligand unit is a monoclonal antibody;
and any combinations or subcombinations of (i) through (xxxvii) provided that the combinations
or subcombinations do not conflict with each other (e.g., xxx and xxxi conflict because p cannot
be both about 4 and about 8). For example, in selected embodiments, m is zero, and n is zero,
one, two, or three. In other selected embodiments, m is zero, n is zero, and x is one. In any of
these selected embodiments, d can be one and g can be from 1 to 5 or d can be one and g can be
from 2 to 5. In any of these embodiments, one or more of (i), (iii) or (xi)-(xxxvi) can apply.
[0128]      In each of the selected embodiments wherein the Ligand-Drug Conjugates, Drug
Linkers, Linkers, or Ligand-Linker conjugates are represented by Formula III (or formulae Ila,
ITub, IIIc, or IIld, as the case may be) or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, the optional
secondary linker assembly can be represented by the following formula:
        Aa-Ww-Y                 wherein -A- is an optional Stretcher unit, the subscript
                                                                                         a' is 0 or 1;
-W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is an optional Spacer
unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1.
[0129] Also included are selected embodiments wherein the Linker has the formula:
                                                     43

                0
                  N        V      1       nF
                                 (TK
                                      XB
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein V, T, B, R1 ,  Q, F,  G, m, x, n, d, and g are
as defined for formula III and RG is a reactive group comprising a reactive site, RS, for
conjugation to the Drug unit D when the secondary linker assembly is absent or to a component
of the secondary linker assembly wherein the secondary linker assembly secondary linker has the
following formula:
                              wherein -A- is an optional Stretcher unit, the subscript
                                                                                       a' is 0 or 1;
-W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is an optional Spacer
unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1.
          Further Embodiments of the Invention
[0130]    Exemplary self-stabilizing linker assemblies prior to conjugation with a Ligand and
following conjugation and hydrolysis of the thio-substituted succcinimide which is formed upon
conjugation are as follows:
                                                 44

0
                           0
  'N   m   QnHQn
                 (TK       0(T,0
     0   B           s    HO              B
                        0
                                 NHl        ,l
                                     NH 0
                        0
                             OH
                       451

                                                                           R12
                                                                          NR 11
                                                            O
                               12                                 NH
                             NRi                        S       0           0
                             O                      L    HO
                        N                                    0               NR1
                       O                                             NH
                                     00                  L 0         NHO
                                                   NH2
                                      0
                                            NH
                                   S       C
                                           0
      O      NH2                     HO
       N                                              NH2
                                         0
      0       0
                O                 L      ONH    H4%
                                     0:
                                          OH
or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein V,  Q, T, m, n, x, and B, are as defined
above for Formula III or any other selected embodiment, c is from I to 4, and R"I and R 12 are, at
each occurrence, independently selected from H or C 1-C6 alkyl. In an exemplary embodiment c
is 1 or 4. The "S" of the hydrolyzed thio-succinimide represents a sulfur atom of the Ligand
(e.g., antibody). The wavy line indicates linkage to the secondary linker assembly or Drug unit.
In an exemplary embodiment, the wavy line indicates linkage to the following secondary linker
assembly
                            wherein -A- is an optional Stretcher unit,
                                                                       the subscript a' is 0 or 1;
                                                46

-W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is an optional Spacer
unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1. It will be understood that more than one (e.g., 1 to 20)
drug-linkers can be attached to each Ligand.
[0131]    In some aspects of the present invention, a self-stabilizing linker assembly may
undergo macro-cyclization to form a dilactam as follows wherein R represents the remainder of
the conjugate:
                     i42N
               0                              HN
              AbSONOS_      R             0     HN       R
             A'0
             AlAb'                         S
                                                      0
                                                    0
                           H2
              S_00                           HN H
              AbS      O    R          Ab                R
         Ab'                           A 7       H    0
                                                    0
          Secondary Linker Assembly
[0132]    The optional secondary linker can comprise a variety of linking groups. In each of the
embodiments provided herein, including the specifically recited embodiments, L0 can be present
and have the formula:
                                        -     A.-W'W-YY
        wherein
        -A- is an optional Stretcher unit, the subscript a' is 0 or 1;
        -W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; and
        -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1;
[0133]    The optional secondary linker assembly can be a releaseable linker assembly, LR. In
those embodiments, w is 1. In some other aspects, the optional secondary linker assembly is a
non-releasable linker assembly. In those embodiments w is 0 and release of drug is via a total
protein degradation pathway (i.e., non-cleavable pathway).
                                                   47

           The Ligand Unit
[0134]     In some embodiments of the invention, a Ligand Unit is present. The Ligand unit (L-)
is a targeting agent that specifically binds to a target moiety. The Ligand can specifically bind to
a cell component (a Cell Binding Agent) or to other target molecules of interest. In some
aspects, the Ligand unit acts to deliver the Drug unit to the particular target cell population with
which the Ligand unit interacts. Ligands include, but are not limited to, proteins, polypeptides
and peptides. Suitable Ligand units include, for example, antibodies, e.g., full-length antibodies
and antigen binding fragments thereof, interferons, lymphokines, hormones, growth factors and
colony-stimulating factors, vitamins, nutrient-transport molecules (such as, but not limited to,
transferrin), or any other cell binding molecule or substance. In some aspects, the ligand is a non
antibody protein targeting agent. In some aspects, a Ligand-Functional Agent is provided
wherein D' is a Detection Unit or Stability unit and the Ligand unit is a protein (e.g., a non
antibody protein).
[0135]     In some aspects, a Ligand unit forms a bond with the maleimide of the Self-Stabilizing
Basic unit via a sulfhydryl group of the Ligand to form a thio-substituted succinimide. The
sulfhydryl group can be present on the Ligand in the Ligand's natural state, for example a
naturally-occurring residue, or can be introduced into the Ligand via chemical modification.
[0136]     It has been observed for bioconjugates that the site of drug conjugation can affect a
number of parameters including ease of conjugation, drug-linker stability, effects on biophysical
properties of the resulting bioconjugates, and in-vitro cytotoxicity. With respect to drug-linker
stability, the site of conjugation of a drug-linker to a ligand can affect the ability of the
conjugated drug-linker to undergo an elimination reaction and for the drug linker to be
transferred from the ligand of a bioconjugate to an alternative reactive thiol present in the milieu
of the bioconjugate, such as, for example, a reactive thiol in albumin, free cysteine, or
glutathione when in plasma. Use of the Self-Stabilizing Linkers of the present invention is
particularly beneficial when conjugated to thiol residues at sites that are susceptible to the
elimination reaction and subsequent transfer of drug-linker if non-self-stabilizing alkyl
maleimides are used (e.g., maleimido-caproyl drug linker). Such sites include, for example, the
interchain disulfides as well as select cysteine engineered sites. Use of the Self-Stabilizing
                                                   48

Linkers of the present invention provides a stable linkage and ability to attach multiple drugs to
each Ligand unit.
[0137]    In one aspect, the Ligand unit has one or more lysine residues that can be chemically
modified to introduce one or more sulfhydryl groups. The reagents that can be used to modify
lysines include, but are not limited to, N-succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate (SATA) and 2
Iminothiolane hydrochloride (Traut's Reagent).
[0138]    In another embodiment, the Ligand unit can have one or more carbohydrate groups that
can be chemically modified to have one or more sulfhydryl groups.
[0139]    In another embodiment, the Ligand is an antibody and the sulfhydryl group is generated
by reduction of an interchain disulfide. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the Linker unit is
conjugated to a cysteine residue of the reduced interchain disulfides.
[0140]     In another embodiment, the sulfhydryl group is chemically introduced into the
antibody, for example by introduction of a cysteine residue. Accordingly, in some embodiments,
the Linker unit is conjugated to an introduced cysteine residue.
[0141]    Useful non-immunoreactive protein, polypeptide, or peptide Ligands include, but are
not limited to, transferrin, epidermal growth factors ("EGF"), bombesin, gastrin, gastrin
releasing peptide, platelet-derived growth factor, IL-2, IL-6, transforming growth factors
("TGF"), such as TGF-a and TGF-p, vaccinia growth factor ("VGF"), insulin and insulin-like
growth factors I and II, somatostatin, lectins and apoprotein from low density lipoprotein.
[0142]    Particularly preferred ligands are antibodies. Useful polyclonal antibodies are
heterogeneous populations of antibody molecules derived from the sera of immunized animals.
Useful monoclonal antibodies are homogeneous populations of antibodies to a particular
antigenic determinant (e.g., a cancer cell antigen, a viral antigen, a microbial antigen, a protein, a
peptide, a carbohydrate, a chemical, nucleic acid, or fragments thereof). A monoclonal antibody
(mAb) to an antigen-of-interest can be prepared by using any technique known in the art which
provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture.
[0143]    Useful monoclonal antibodies include, but are not limited to, human monoclonal
antibodies, humanized monoclonal antibodies, or chimeric human-mouse (or other species)
                                                  49

monoclonal antibodies. The antibodies include full-length antibodies and antigen binding
fragments thereof. Human monoclonal antibodies may be made by any of numerous techniques
known in the art (e.g., Teng et al., 1983, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 80:7308-7312; Kozbor et
al., 1983, Immunology Today 4:72-79; and Olsson et al., 1982, Meth. Enzymol. 92:3-16).
[0144]     The antibody can be a functionally active fragment, derivative or analog of an antibody
that immunospecifically binds to target cells (e.g., cancer cell antigens, viral antigens, or
microbial antigens) or other antibodies bound to tumor cells or matrix. In this regard,
"functionally active" means that the fragment, derivative or analog is able to elicit anti-anti
idiotype antibodies that recognize the same antigen that the antibody from which the fragment,
derivative or analog is derived. Specifically, in an exemplary embodiment the antigenicity of the
idiotype of the immunoglobulin molecule can be enhanced by deletion of framework and CDR
sequences that are C-terminal to the CDR sequence that specifically recognizes the antigen. To
determine which CDR sequences bind the antigen, synthetic peptides containing the CDR
sequences can be used in binding assays with the antigen by any binding assay method known in
the art (e.g., the BIA core assay) (See, e.g., Kabat et al., 1991, Sequences ofProteins of
Immunological Interest, Fifth Edition, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md; Kabat E et al.,
 1980, J Immunology 125(3):961-969).
[0145]     Other useful antibodies include fragments of antibodies such as, but not limited to,
F(ab') 2 fragments, Fab fragments, Fvs, single chain antibodies, diabodies, tribodies, tetrabodies,
scFv, scFv-FV, or any other molecule with the same specificity as the antibody.
[0146]     Additionally, recombinant antibodies, such as chimeric and humanized monoclonal
antibodies, comprising both human and non-human portions, which can be made using standard
recombinant DNA techniques, are useful antibodies. A chimeric antibody is a molecule in which
different portions are derived from different animal species, such as for example, those having a
variable region derived from a murine monoclonal and human immunoglobulin constant regions.
(See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; and U.S. Patent No. 4,816,397, which are incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.) Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules from non
human species having one or more complementarity determining regions (CDRs) from the non
human species and a framework region from a human immunoglobulin molecule. (See, e.g.,
U.S. Patent No. 5,585,089, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.) Such
                                                  50

chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA
techniques known in the art, for example using methods described in International Publication
No. WO 87/0267 1; European Patent Publication No. 0 184 187; European Patent Publication No.
0 171 496; European Patent Publication No. 0 173 494; International Publication No. WO
86/01533; U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; European Patent Publication No.012 023; Berter et al.,
 1988, Science 240:1041-1043; Liu et al., 1987, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84:3439-3443; Liu et
al., 1987, J Immunol. 139:3521-3526; Sun et al., 1987, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84:214-218;
Nishimura et al., 1987, Cancer. Res. 47:999-1005; Wood et al., 1985, Nature 314:446-449; and
Shaw et al., 1988, J Natl. CancerInst. 80:1553-1559; Morrison, 1985, Science 229:1202-1207;
Oi et al., 1986, BioTechniques 4:214; U.S. Patent No. 5,225,539; Jones et al., 1986, Nature
321:552-525; Verhoeyan et al., 1988, Science 239:1534; and Beidler et al., 1988, J Immunol.
 141:4053-4060; each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0147]     Completely human antibodies are particularly desirable and can be produced using
transgenic mice that are incapable of expressing endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light
chains genes, but which can express human heavy and light chain genes.
[0148]     Antibodies include analogs and derivatives that are either modified, i.e., by the covalent
attachment of any type of molecule as long as such covalent attachment permits the antibody to
retain its antigen binding immunospecificity. For example, but not by way of limitation,
derivatives and analogs of the antibodies include those that have been further modified, e.g., by
glycosylation, acetylation, pegylation, phosphorylation, amidation, derivatization by known
protecting/blocking groups, proteolytic cleavage, linkage to a cellular antibody unit or other
protein, etc. Any of numerous chemical modifications can be carried out by known techniques
including, but not limited to, specific chemical cleavage, acetylation, formylation, metabolic
synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin, etc. Additionally, the analog or derivative can contain
one or more unnatural amino acids.
[0149]     Antibodies can have modifications (e.g., substitutions, deletions or additions) in amino
acid residues that interact with Fc receptors. In particular, antibodies can have modifications in
amino acid residues identified as involved in the interaction between the anti-Fc domain and the
FcRn receptor (see, e.g., International Publication No. WO 97/34631, which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety).
                                                 51

[0150]    Antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially or
produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as, e.g., chemical synthesis or
recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies
immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained, e.g., from the GenBank database or a
database like it, the literature publications, or by routine cloning and sequencing.
[0151]    In a specific embodiment, known antibodies for the treatment of cancer can be used.
Antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially or produced
by any method known to one of skill in the art such as, e.g., recombinant expression techniques.
The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be
obtained, e.g., from the GenBank database or a database like it, the literature publications, or by
routine cloning and sequencing.
[0152]    In another specific embodiment, antibodies for the treatment of an autoimmune disease
are used in accordance with the compositions and methods of the invention. Antibodies
immunospecific for an antigen of a cell that is responsible for producing autoimmune antibodies
can be obtained from any organization (e.g., a university scientist or a company) or produced by
any method known to one of skill in the art such as, e.g., chemical synthesis or recombinant
expression techniques. In another embodiment, useful antibodies are immunospecific for the
treatment of autoimmune diseases include, but are not limited to, anti-nuclear antibody; anti-ds
DNA; Anti-ss DNA, anti-cardiolipin antibody IgM, IgG; anti-phospholipid antibody IgM, IgG;
anti-SM antibody; anti-mitochondrial antibody; thyroid antibody; microsomal antibody;
thyroglobulin antibody; anti-SCL-70 antibody; anti-Jo antibody; anti-UiRNP antibody;
anti-La/SSB antibody; anti-SSA; anti-SSB antibody; anti-perital cells antibody; anti-histones
antibody; anti-RNP antibody; C-ANCA antibody; P-ANCA antibody; anti-centromere antibody;
Anti-Fibrillarin antibody and anti-GBM antibody.
[0153]    In certain embodiments, useful antibodies can bind to a receptor or a receptor complex
expressed on an activated lymphocyte. The receptor or receptor complex can comprise an
immunoglobulin gene superfamily member, a TNF receptor superfamily member, an integrin, a
cytokine receptor, a chemokine receptor, a major histocompatibility protein, a lectin, or a
complement control protein. Non-limiting examples of suitable immunoglobulin superfamily
members are CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD28, CD30, CD70, CD79, CD90,
                                                    52

CD152/CTLA-4, PD-1, and ICOS. Non-limiting examples of suitable TNF receptor superfamily
members are CD27, CD40, CD95/Fas, CD134/OX40, CD137/4-1BB, TNF-R1, TNFR-2,
RANK, TACI, BCMA, osteoprotegerin, Apo2/TRAIL-R1, TRAIL-R2, TRAIL-R3, TRAIL-R4,
and APO-3. Non-limiting examples of suitable integrins are CD1 1a, CD1Ib, CD1 Ic, CD18,
CD29, CD41, CD49a, CD49b, CD49c, CD49d, CD49e, CD49f, CD103, and CD104. Non
limiting examples of suitable lectins are C-type, S-type, and I-type lectin.
          The Drug Unit, D
[0154]    The drug unit (D) can be any cytotoxic, cytostatic or immunosuppressive drug also
referred to herein as a cytotoxic, cytostatic or immunosuppressive agent. The Drug unit has an
atom that can form a bond with the Linker Unit. In some embodiments, the Drug unit D has a
nitrogen atom that can form a bond with the Linker unit. In other embodiments, the Drug unit D
has a carboxylic acid that can form a bond with the Linker unit. In other embodiments, the Drug
unit D has a sulfhydryl group that can form a bond with the Linker unit. In other embodiments,
the Drug unit D has a hydroxyl group or ketone that can form a bond with the Linker unit.
[0155]    Useful classes of cytotoxic or immunosuppressive agents include, for example,
antitubulin agents, auristatins, DNA minor groove binders, DNA replication inhibitors,
alkylating agents (e.g., platinum complexes such as cis-platin, mono(platinum), bis(platinum)
and tri-nuclear platinum complexes and carboplatin), anthracyclines, antibiotics, antifolates,
antimetabolites, chemotherapy sensitizers, duocarmycins, etoposides, fluorinated pyrimidines,
ionophores, lexitropsins, nitrosoureas, platinols, pre-forming compounds, purine antimetabolites,
puromycins, radiation sensitizers, steroids, taxanes, topoisomerase inhibitors, vinca alkaloids, or
the like. Particularly examples of useful classes of cytotoxic agents include, for example, DNA
minor groove binders, DNA alkylating agents, and tubulin inhibitors. Exemplary cytotoxic
agents include, for example, auristatins, camptothecins, duocarmycins, etoposides, maytansines
and maytansinoids (e.g., DM1 and DM4), taxanes, benzodiazepines (e.g.,
pyrrolo[1,4]benzodiazepines (PBDs), indolinobenzodiazepines, and
oxazolidinobenzodiazepines) and vinca alkaloids.       Select benzodiazepine containing drugs are
described in WO 2010/091150, WO 2012/112708, WO 2007/085930, and WO 2011/023883.
[0156]    Individual cytotoxic or immunosuppressive agents include, for example, an androgen,
anthramycin (AMC), asparaginase, 5-azacytidine, azathioprine, bleomycin, busulfan, buthionine
                                                   53

sulfoximine, calicheamicin, camptothecin, carboplatin, carmustine (BSNU), CC-1065,
chlorambucil, cisplatin, colchicine, cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, cytidine arabinoside,
cytochalasin B, dacarbazine, dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin), daunorubicin, decarbazine,
docetaxel, doxorubicin, etoposide, an estrogen, 5-fluordeoxyuridine, 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine,
gramicidin D, hydroxyurea, idarubicin, ifosfamide, irinotecan, lomustine (CCNU), maytansine,
mechlorethamine, melphalan, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, mithramycin, mitomycin C,
mitoxantrone, nitroimidazole, paclitaxel, palytoxin, plicamycin, procarbizine, rhizoxin,
streptozotocin, tenoposide, 6-thioguanine, thioTEPA, topotecan, vinblastine, vincristine,
vinorelbine, VP-16 and VM-26.
[0157]    In some typical embodiments, suitable cytotoxic agents include, for example, DNA
minor groove binders (e.g., enediynes and lexitropsins, a CBI compound; see also U.S. Patent
No. 6,130,237), duocarmycins (see U.S. Publication No. 20060024317), taxanes (e.g., paclitaxel
and docetaxel), puromycins, vinca alkaloids, CC-1065, SN-38, topotecan, morpholino
doxorubicin, rhizoxin, cyanomorpholino-doxorubicin, echinomycin, combretastatin, netropsin,
epothilone A and B, estramustine, cryptophysins, cemadotin, maytansinoids, discodermolide,
eleutherobin, and mitoxantrone.
[0158]    In some embodiments, the Drug unit is an anti-tubulin agent. Examples of anti-tubulin
agents include, but are not limited to, taxanes (e.g., Taxol@ (paclitaxel), Taxotere@ (docetaxel)),
T67 (Tularik) and vinca alkyloids (e.g., vincristine, vinblastine, vindesine, and vinorelbine).
Other antitubulin agents include, for example, baccatin derivatives, taxane analogs (e.g.,
epothilone A and B), nocodazole, colchicine and colcimid, estramustine, cryptophysins,
cemadotin, maytansinoids, combretastatins, discodermolide, and eleutherobin.
[0159]    In certain embodiments, the cytotoxic agent is maytansine or a maytansinoid, another
group of anti-tubulin agents. (ImmunoGen, Inc.; see also Chari et al., 1992, Cancer Res. 52:127
131 and U.S. Patent No. 8,163,888).
[0160]    In some embodiments, the Drug unit is an auristatin. Auristatins include, but are not
limited to, AE, AFP, AEB, AEVB, MMAF, and MMAE. The synthesis and structure of
auristatins are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003-0083263, 2005
0238649 2005-0009751, 2009-0111756, and 2011-0020343; International Patent Publication No.
WO 04/010957, International Patent Publication No. WO 02/088172, and U.S. Patent Nos.
                                                  54

7,659,241 and 8,343,928; each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all
purposes. Exemplary auristatins of the present invention bind tubulin and exert a cytotoxic or
cytostatic effect on the desired cell line.
[0161]    Exemplary auristatin Drug units have the following formula or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof wherein the wavy line indicates site of attachment to the Linker unit:
                 'N    N              N                              N
                                                                     HN
                           SOCOCH                                3   0H
                             N
                                             CH 3
              H3 C      CH3         H3 CHO                                      P
                               HCH                                    3
              -- N                     N               N
                                        I                               N      CH 3
                 CH 3 0       7         CH3 0     O0
                                                                      0
                                                                        H
                         H3 C       CH 3                       OCH 3                 or
                  NN    +I E\II    'NN                 N:               H        H
101621    In some embodiments, the Drug is a benzodiazepine (including benzodiazepine
containing drugs e.g., pyrrolo [1 ,4]benzodiazepines (PBDs), indolinobenzodiazepines, and
oxazolidinobenzodiazepines).
101631    PBDs are of the general structure:
                                                  55

                                                    10
                                                       N.11
                                      8                --     H
                                            A        B1a        .1
                                      7                  NC
                                            6                      2
                                                   0         3
but can differ in the number, type and position of substituents, in both their aromatic A rings and
pyrrolo C rings, and in the degree of saturation of the C ring. In the B-ring there is either an
imine (N=C), a carbinolamine(NH-CH(OH)), or a carbinolamine methyl ether (NH-CH(OMe))
at the N10-C 11 position, which is the electrophilic centre responsible for alkylating DNA. All of
the known natural products have an (S)-configuration at the chiral C1 la position which provides
them with a right-handed twist when viewed from the C ring towards the A ring. This gives
them the appropriate three-dimensional shape for isohelicity with the minor groove of B-form
DNA, leading to a snug fit at the binding site. The ability of PBDs to form an adduct in the
minor groove enables them to interfere with DNA processing, hence their use as antitumour
agents. The biological activity of these molecules can be potentiated by, for example, joining
two PBD units together through their C8/C'-hydroxyl functionalities via a flexible alkylene
linker. The PBD dimers are thought to form sequence-selective DNA lesions such as the
palindromic 5'-Pu-GATC-Py-3' interstrand cross-link which is thought to be mainly responsible
for their biological activity.
[0164]     There are a number of different assays that can be used for determining whether a
Ligand-Drug Conjugate exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell line. In one example for
determining whether a Ligand-Drug Conjugate exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell
line, a thymidine incorporation assay is used. For example, cells at a density of 5,000 cells/well
of a 96-well plated is cultured for a 72-hour period and exposed to 0.5 piCi of 3H-thymidine
during the final 8 hours of the 72-hour period, and the incorporation of 3H-thymidine into cells of
the culture is measured in the presence and absence of Ligand-Drug Conjugate. The Ligand
Drug Conjugate has a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on the cell line if the cells of the culture have
reduced 3H-thymidine incorporation compared to cells of the same cell line cultured under the
same conditions but not contacted with the Ligand-Drug Conjugate.
[0165]     In another example, for determining whether a Ligand-Drug Conjugate exerts a
cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell line, cell viability is measured by determining in a cell the
                                                    56

uptake of a dye such as neutral red, trypan blue, or ALAMIARTM blue (see, e.g., Page et al., 1993,
Intl. J of Oncology 3:473-476). In such an assay, the cells are incubated in media containing the
dye, the cells are washed, and the remaining dye, reflecting cellular uptake of the dye, is
measured spectrophotometrically. The protein-binding dye sulforhodamine B (SRB) can also be
used to measure cytoxicity (Skehan et al., 1990, J Nat'l CancerInst. 82:1107-12). Preferred
Ligand-Drug Conjugates include those with an IC 50 value (defined as the mAB concentration
that gives 50% cell kill) of less than 1000 ng/ml, preferably less than 500 ng/ml, more preferably
less than 100 ng/ml, even most preferably less than 50 or even less than 10 ng/ml on the cell line.
[0166]     General procedures for linking a drug to linkers are known in the art. See, for example,
U.S. Patent Nos. 8,163,888, 7,659,241, 7,498,298, U.S. Publication No. US20110256157 and
International Application Nos. W02011023883, and W02005112919.
                MI - The succinimide
[0167]     A non-hydrolyzed succinimide (also referred to herein as a succinimide ring)
conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage can be represented as follows wherein R
represents the remainder of the Linker unit optionally conjugated to a Drug unit, Detection unit
or Stability unit:
                                                     0
                                                           N'R
                                       Ligand                O
[0168]     A hydrolyzed succinimide (also referred to herein as a hydrolyzed succinimide ring)
conjugated to the Ligand unit via a thioether linkage can be represented as one of its two
positional isomers as follows wherein R represents the remainder of the Linker unit optionally
conjugated to a Drug unit, Detection unit or Stability unit:
                                        0                              0
                                   HO           HR
                                                NR                        H
                                       ,S         'R              S       0
                               Ligand       o            Ligand HO
                                                 57

[0169]    It will be understood for the non-hydrolyzed succinimides and hydrolyzed succinimide
representations, there can be from 1 to 20, preferably 1 to 12, 1 to 10 or 1 to 8 self-stabilizing
linkers conjugated to each Ligand. In some aspects, there are from 1 to 20, preferably 1 to 12, 1
to 10 or 1 to 8 drug-linkers conjugated to each Ligand. Additionally, for the conjugates
described herein where a Ligand is not attached, the succinimide is in an unsaturated form as a
maleimide (capable of reactive with a thiol or the Ligand).
                Basic units
[0170]    In Formula I, as well as the other formulae comprising a self-stabilizing linker (Lss),
the Basic unit (BU) can be essentially any base capable of facilitating a hydroxide ion (or water)
attack to hydrolyze a nearby succinimide group. Accordingly, BU represents any "base" but is
typically a group comprising a tethered amine or nitrogen containing heterocycle; the amine or
nitrogen containing heterocycle acting as the base of the Basic unit. Representative amines
include -N(R 3)(R4 ) wherein R3 and R 4 are independently selected from H or C1.6 alkyl,
preferably H or methyl,
                     NR5
                                (CH 2 )e           NR 5    NR 5
                                                                   RR              R
                   <N>       <KN>I
                                  I                                 H2 N
                  H2N
                             -R6                        N              NH
                                         N   -HN
                                                                          NR7R8
                          NHR 7            N7R 8R ,"NH         R7 HN      NR 8
                       N)    NHR 8
                                                    58

                                               5
                                             R
                                              I
                                                                        6
                                             N   R     NR
                                         NI             |          N   R
                                                          a'vvv    R5
wherein R5 , R6, R7 and R8 are, at each occurrence, independently selected from hydrogen or C1 .6
alkyl, preferably H or methyl, and e is 0-4. In the formulae above, the wavy line indicates the
point of attachment to a tethering group (typically an alkylene linker -(C(R 9)( R10 )),- wherein
the subscript x is an integer of from 0 to 6 (or 1 to 6) provided that if x is 0 there are no less than
2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide
(hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed) or dilactam and R9 and R          are independently selected from H or
Ci- alkyl. In some aspects, the alkylene linker is -(CH 2 )x- wherein the subscript x is an integer
of from 0 to 6 (or 1 to 6) provided that if x is 0 there are no less than 2 intervening atoms
between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non
hydrolyzed) or dilactam. The subscript x is preferably 0 to 4, 1 to 4, or from 1 to 3, or from 2 to
3, or from 2 to 4, but can also be 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4. Accordingly, the Basic unit, will in some
embodiments, be selected from the group consisting of -(CH        2 )xNH 2 , -(CH 2 )xNHRa, and -(CH  2
)xNRa   2, wherein x is an integer of from 0 to 4, 1 to 4, or from I to 3, or from 2 to 3, or from 2 to
4, but can also be 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and each Ra is independently selected from the group consisting
of C1 6 alkyl and C1 6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they
are attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group. In preferred aspects, the
base of the Basic unit will be a nitrogenous base.
                 Hydrolysis Enhancers (HE) and Electron-withdrawing groups
[0171]     The hydrolysis enhancers (HE) of Formula I, as well as the other formulae comprising
a self-stabilizing linker (Lss), can be essentially any electron-withdrawing group capable of
facilitating the hydrolysis of a nearby succinimide group. The hydrolysis is further facilitated by
the Basic unit (BU) assisting a hydroxide ion (or water) attack to hydrolyze a nearby succinimide
group; or to render the nearby succinimide group more susceptible to hydrolysis. Accordingly,
HE can include a functional group that draws electrons away from a reaction center. Exemplary
                                                    59

electron withdrawing groups include, but are not limited to, -C(=O), (=0), -CN, -NO 2 , -CX 3 ,
X, -COOR, -CONR 2, -COR, -COX, -SO 2 R, -SO 2 OR, -SO 2NHR, -SO 2 NR 2 , -PO 3 R 2 ,
P(O)(CH 3)NHR, NO, -NR3I, -CR=CR 2 , and -C=CR wherein X is F, Br, Cl, or I, and R is, at
each occurrence, independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C1 .6 alkyl.
Exemplary electron withdrawing groups can also include aryl groups (e.g., phenyl) and certain
heteroaryl groups (e.g., pyridine). The term "electron withdrawing groups" includes aryls or
heteroaryls further substitued with electron withdrawing groups.
[0172]     In some embodiments, HE comprises a carbonyl, sulfonyl or phosphoryl moiety. In
some embodiments, the hydrolysis enhancer (HE)
is -CH 2 C(O)-, -C(O)-, -C(O)CH 2-, -CH 2 CH 2 C(O)-,     or -CH 2 C(O)NH-.
[0173]     In some embodiments wherein HE is directly linked to the secondary linker assembly
or Drug unit or Stability unit or Detection unit, HE will comprise a reactive site suitable for
attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit. In some aspects, the electron
withdrawing group will itself act as both the electron withdrawing group and a reactive site for
attachment to the optional secondary linker assembly or Drug unit (e.g., -C(=O)-).
           The Optional Secondary Linker Assembly (Lo)
[0174]     As noted above, the optional secondary linker assembly can be represented by the
formula:
                                        --   Aa.-Wv-Yy
wherein -A- is an optional Stretcher unit, the subscript a' is 0 or 1; -W- is an optional Cleavable
unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1.
The wavy line adjacent to the optional Stretcher unit indicates the site of attachment to the self
stabilizing linker assembly and the wavy line adjacent to the optional Spacer unit indicates the
site of attachment to the Drug unit.
[0175]     General methods of linking a Drug unit, a Detection unit, or a Stability unit to a Ligand
unit are known in the art and linkers known in the art can be adapted for use with a self
stabilizing linker assembly or modified to include a basic component and/or electron
                                                   60

withdrawing group using the teachings described herein. For example, auristatin and
maytansine ADCs are currently in clinical development for the treatment of cancer.
Monomethyl auristatin E is conjugated through a protease cleavable peptide linker to an
antibody, monomethyl auristatin F is conjugated directly to an antibody through
maleimidocaproic acid, DM1 is conjugated through a disulfide or directly through the
heterobifunctional SMCC linker, and DM4 is conjugated through a disulfide linker. These
linker systems can be adapted for use with a self-stabilizing linker assembly or modified to
include a basic component and/or electron withdrawing group using the teachings described
herein and provide release of drug by a cleavable or non-cleavable system depending on the
linker system used. Disulfide, thioether, peptide, hydrazine, ester, or carbamate bonds are all
examples of bonds that can be used to connect a Drug Unit to a Linker Unit.         Stretcher units,
Cleavable units, and Spacer units are described in more detail below.
[0176]      Also contemplated within the present invention are branched linkers. Accordingly, in
one aspect, the Stretcher unit is designed in such a way to allow branching within the Linker
unit, e.g., the attachment of more than one Drug unit or Detection unit or Stability unit to each
self-stabilizing linker assembly, as represented by the following formula:
                                    -    A      A'a-WW-Yy-D'
                                                                   )
wherein the wavy line indicates the site of attachment to the self-stabilizing linker assembly, -W
is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the
subscript y' is 0 or 1, u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10); A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an
optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; and a' is 0 or 1. Each A', W, Y, and D'
can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can be attached to the Stretcher unit (either A
or A') through the same or different functional group on the Stretcher unit.      In some aspects, D'
is a Drug unit D.
[0177]      Exemplary Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates or Ligand-Drug Conjugates having
either branched or non-branched linkers have the following formulae:
                                                   61

                                  BU    AA'a.          W.-     Yy -D) u b
                 L    M-(HE)r                 (HE)q-     A   A'a.-    Wv-   Yy-D
                                      (HE)m
                                     LSS                                           P oor
                                   BUA        A'a.       W-      Yy-Du b
                   L    M  (HE)r                (HE)q-     A  A'a.-    Wv-   YY-D
                                        (HE)m
                                       Lss
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein each of L, M , HE, BU, D', and
the subscripts p, a, b, m, q, and r have the meanings provided for Formula I and any of the
selected embodiments for Formula I, D is a Drug unit, the circle represents a scaffold that can be
C1.8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6 .10 arylene, or C4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises
a reactive site suitable for attachment to A, W, Y or D' (or D as the case may be); -W- is an
optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the subscript y'
is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; a'
is 0 or 1; and u is from 1 to 20 (preferably from 1 to 10) wherein when u is from 2 to 20 A is
present and when u is 1, A can be present or absent. Each A', W, Y, and D' (or D as the case
may be) can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can be attached to the Stretcher unit
(either A or A') through the same or different functional group on the Stretcher unit. In some
aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In aspects wherein the linker isn't branched
                                                      62

u is 1 and a' is 0. In other aspects, wherein the linker is branched, u is from 2 to 20 (preferably
from 2 to 10).    In each of these selected embodiments, the circle can represent a scaffold that is
C1.8 alkylene or C 1.8 heteroalkylene (preferably C 1 .4 alkylene or C1 .4 heteroalkylene) or C1.3
alkylene or C 1 .3 heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched.
[0178]    Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates having either branched or non-branched linkers
can be represented by the following formulas:
                               BU
                      L    M1             (HE)-    A#A'a-Ww-          Yy-D)
                                                                                   p
                                      (BU)
                          Ab      M1            A   A'a-    W -    YY-D)    u
                                           0
                                                                              ) p
                                     (BU)     0
                          Ab      M1       ,      A A'a-Ww.-        Yy-D)
                                                                                p
                                             0
                         Ab      M1               A   A'a    W.-    YY-D)
                                         BU                                      p
                                                   63

or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein each of L, M , HE, BU, D', and
the subscript p have the meanings provided for Formula I and any of the selected embodiments
for Formula I, the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8 alkylene, C 1.8 heteroalkylene, C6 .10
arylene, or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for attachment to
A, W, Y or D', -W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0 or 1; -Y- is an optional
Spacer unit, the subscript y' is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an optional Stretcher unit
component at the terminus of A; a' is 0 or 1; and u is from 1 to 20 (preferably from 1 to 10),
wherein when u is from 2 to 20 A is present and when u is 1, A can be present or absent. Each
A', W, Y, and D' can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can be attached to the
Stretcher unit (either A or A') through the same or different functional group on the Stretcher
unit. In some aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In aspects wherein the linker
isn't branched u is 1, a' is 0, and A can be present or absent. In other aspects, wherein the linker
is branched u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10). In some preferred embodiments, BU is
selected from the group consisting of -(CH       2 )xNH 2 , -(CH 2 )xNHRa, and
 -(CH 2 )xNRa   2, wherein   x is an integer of from 0-4 and each Ra is independently selected from
the group consisting of C 1.6 alkyl and C1 .6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the
nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group,
provided that there are no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and
the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed).           In some such aspects X
is 0-4 and each Ra is C 1 .6 alkyl.
[0179]     Ligand-Drug Conjugates having either branched or non-branched linkers can be
represented by the following formulas:
                                 BU
                        L   M1             (HE)-A A'a,-Ww               -YD)
                                                                                    p
                                                      64

                                        (BU)
                           Ab       M1            A   A'a.--W-Y-D)
                                                    au
                                                                              p
                                       (BU)    0
                           Ab      M1       '       AA'a.-W        -- YY-D) u
                                                                               p
                                              0
                          Ab       M1               A A'a,     W -Yy-D)
                                           BU                                  p
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein each of L, M , HE, BU, and the
subscript p have the meanings provided for Formula I and any of the selected embodiments for
Formula I, D is a Drug unit, the circle represents a scaffold that can be C1.8 alkylene, C1 .8
heteroalkylene, C6    10 arylene, or C4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site
suitable for attachment to A, W, Y or D, -W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0
or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the subscript y' is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an
optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; a' is 0 or 1; and u is from 1 to 20
(preferably from I to 10), wherein when u is from 2 to 20 A is present and when u is 1, A can be
present or absent. Each A', W, Y, and D can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can
be attached to the Stretcher unit (either A or A') through the same or different functional group
on the Stretcher unit. In some aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In aspects
                                                      65

wherein the linker isn't branched u is 1, a' is 0, and A can be present or absent. In other aspects,
wherein the linker is branched u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10). In some preferred
embodiments, BU is selected from the group consisting of -(CH 2 )xNH 2 , -(CH 2 )xNHRa, and
 -(CH 2 )xNRa  2,wherein    x is an integer of from 0-4 and each Ra is independently selected from
the group consisting of C 1.6 alkyl and C1 .6 haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the
nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group,
provided that there are no less than 2 intervening atoms between the base of the Basic unit and
the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed).          In some such aspects X
is 0-4 and each Ra is C 1 .6 alkyl.
[0180]     Functional Agent-Linker Conjugates having either branched or non-branched linkers
can be represented by the following formulas:
                                        BU    4A    'a.-Wv     -Yy-D)      b
                           N-(HE)r                 (HE)q-   A(AA.--Ww-YY-D)               a
                                            (HE)m
                         0
                               0
                                      BU
                                                (HE)-AA'a.-Ww-YY-D)
                                                                                   u
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein each of HE, BU, D', and the
subscripts p, a, b, m, q, and r have the meanings provided for Formula I and any of the selected
embodiments for Formula I, the circle represents a scaffold that can be C1.8 alkylene, C1 .8
heteroalkylene, C6 .10 arylene, or C 4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site
suitable for attachment to A, W, Y or D'; W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript w' is 0
or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the subscript y' is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an
                                                     66

optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; a' is 0 or 1; and u is from 1 to 20
(preferably from I to 10, wherein when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u is 1, A can be
present or absent. Each A', W, Y, and D' can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can
be attached to the Stretcher unit (either A or A') through the same or different functional group
on the Stretcher unit. In some aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In aspects
wherein the linker isn't branched u is 1, a' is 0, and A can be present or absent. In other aspects,
wherein the linker is branched u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10). In each of these
selected embodiments, the circle can represent a scaffold that is C1 .8 alkylene or C1 .8
heteroalkylene (preferably C1-4 alkylene or C 1.4 heteroalkylene) or C 1 .3 alkylene or C1-3
heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched. In each of these
selected embodiments, D' can be D.
                                    BU
[0181]    In some aspects    -                (HE)-     is represented by:
       0 BU                                                                  BU        0
                                                                  -     CH 2 -CH-      C-
                                                   --       , or
                                                                                                  .In
some such aspects, D' is D. In some preferred embodiments, BU is selected from the group
consisting of-(CH 2 )xNH 2 , -(CH  2 )xNHRa,  and -(CH  2 )xNRa 2, wherein  x is an integer of from 0
4 and each Ra is independently selected from the group consisting of C1 .6 alkyl and C1 .6
haloalkyl, or two Ra groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an
azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group, provided that there are no less than 2 intervening
atoms between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed
or non-hydrolyzed).    In some such aspects X is 0-4 and each Ra is C 1 .6 alkyl.
[0182]    Ligand-Linker Conjugates having either branched or non-branched linkers can be
represented by the following formulas:
                                                   67

                                   BUAA       A'a.       W..-   Y--RGu b
                 L    M-(HE)r                  (HE)q      A A'a,-    Ww.-    Y-RG)]
                                       (HE)m
                                                                                        ap
                                     Lss
                             BU
                     L    M1              (HE)-A          A'amWW.-Yy-RG
                                                                                     p
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein each of L, M , HE, BU, and the
subscripts p, a, b, m, q, and r have the meanings provided for Formula I and any of the selected
embodiments for Formula I, the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8 alkylene, C 1.8
heteroalkylene, C6 .10 arylene, or C 4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site
suitable for attachment to A, W, Y or D; RG is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at
the terminus of         A-    Aa.-  W.-Yy-           -which is suitable for attaching a Drug unit (or
alternatively a Detection unit or a Stability unit) , W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript
w' is 0 or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the subscript y' is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an
optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; a' is 0 or 1; and u is from 1 to 20
(preferably from 1 to 10) wherein when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u is 1, A can be
present or absent. Each A', W, Y, and D can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can
be attached to the Stretcher unit (either A or A') through the same or different functional group
on the Stretcher unit. In some aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In aspects,
wherein the linker isn't branched u is 1, a' is 0, and A can be present or absent. In other aspects,
wherein the linker is branched u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10). In each of these
                                                      68

selected embodiments, the circle can represnet a scaffold that is C1 .8 alkylene or C1 .8
heteroalkylene (preferably C1-4 alkylene or C 1.4 heteroalkylene) or C 1 .3 alkylene or C1-3
heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched.
                                   BU
[0183]    In some aspects    -               (HE)-      is represented by:
       0 BU                                                                  BU       0
 --     CH-C-        -   ,--CH-CH2--C-                      , or
In some preferred embodiments, BU is selected from the group consisting of -(CH        2 )xNH 2 ,
(CH 2 )xNHRa, and -(CH   2 )xNRa 2, wherein x is an integer of from 0-4 and each Ra is
independently selected from the group consisting of C 1.6 alkyl and C1 .6 haloalkyl, or two Ra
groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl,
pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group, provided that there are no less than 2 intervening atoms
between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non
hydrolyzed).   In some such aspects X is 0-4 and each Ra is C 1 .6 alkyl.
[0184]    Branched or non-branched Linkers can be represented by the following formulas:
                                    BU
                                         AoAa.         Wy-Yy-RG)
                                                                        u Ib
                        N-(HE)r                (HE)q     A{A'a.-      Ww-Yy-RG)]
                                       (HE)m
                      0
                                                  69

                             0
                                   BU
                               I               (HE)-     A  Aa.-Ww.-          Yy-RG)
                            0
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt), wherein each of the scaffold, HE, BU,
and the subscripts a, b, m, q, and r have the meanings provided for Formula I and any of the
selected embodiments for Formula I, the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8 alkylene,
C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6 .10 arylene, or C 4 .io heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site
suitable for attachment to A, W, Y or D; RG is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at
the terminus of -       A-     A.-  W-        Yy-    -which is suitable for attaching a Drug unit (or
alternatively a Detection unit or a Stability unit), W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the subscript
w' is 0 or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the subscript y' is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher unit, A' is an
optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; a' is 0 or 1; and u is from 1 to 20
(preferably from I to 10), wherein when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u is 1, A can be
present or absent. Each A', W, Y, and D can be the same or different. Each Cleavable unit can
be attached to the Stretcher unit (either A or A') through the same or different functional group
on the Stretcher unit. In some aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In aspects
wherein the linker isn't branched u is 1, a' is 0, and A can be present or absent. In other aspects,
wherein the linker is branched u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10). In each of these
selected embodiments, the circle can represent a scaffold that is C1 .8 alkylene or C1 .8
heteroalkylene (preferably C1.4 alkylene or C 1.4 heteroalkylene) or C 1 .3 alkylene or C1.3
heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched.
                                                      70

                                      BU
[0185]    In some aspects     -                 (HE)-      is represented by:
       BU                         BU                                          BU        0
       -   -H-         -     --    CH-CH2-  2or   C    -  -          +rCH2-CH-C
                A -CH-C
In some preferred embodiments, BU is selected from the group consisting of -(CH          2 )xNH 2 ,
(CH 2 )xNHRa, and -(CH 2 )xNRa     2,  wherein x is an integer of from 0-4 and each Ra is
independently selected from the group consisting of C 1.6 alkyl and C1 .6 haloalkyl, or two Ra
groups are combined with the nitrogen to which they are attached to form an azetidinyl,
pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl group, provided that there are no less than 2 intervening atoms
between the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the succinimide (hydrolyzed or non
hydrolyzed).    In some such aspects X is 0-4 and each Ra is C 1 .6 alkyl.
[0186]    In some other aspects, exemplary Ligand-Drug Conjugates having either branched or
non-branched linkers have the following formulae:
         L M             m R1         Q n          G     RS       A -A''-WYY'-D
                                              d
                             (T<
                                   B
                                 LTT
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein each of L, M , V, R , T, B,       Q, F, G, and RS
and the subscripts p, m, x, n, d, and g have the meanings provided for Formula III and any of the
selected embodiments for Formula III, L is a Ligand unit, W- is an optional Cleavable unit, the
subscript w' is 0 or 1; -Y- is an optional Spacer unit, the subscript y' is 0 or 1, A is a Stretcher
                                                     71

unit, A' is an optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A; a' is 0 or 1; and u is from 1
to 20 (preferably from 1 to 10) wherein when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u is 1, A
can be present or absent. Each A', W, Y, and D can be the same or different. Each Cleavable
unit can be attached to the Stretcher unit (either A or A') through the same or different functional
group on the Stretcher unit. In some aspects, w' is 1. In some aspects, w' is 1 and a' is 0. In
aspects wherein the linker isn't branched u is 1, a' is 0, and A can be present or absent. In other
aspects, wherein the linker is branched u is from 2 to 20 (preferably from 2 to 10).
[0187]     Stretcher units, Cleavable units, and Spacer units are described in more detail below.
                 The Stretcher Unit
[0188]     The Stretcher unit (-A-), when present, extends the framework of the Linker unit to
provide more distance between the self-stabilizing linker assembly and the Drug unit. A
Stretcher unit is capable of linking the self-stabilizing linker assembly to the Cleavable unit when
the Cleavable unit is present, the self-stabilizing linker assembly to the Spacer unit when the
Cleavable unit is absent but the Spacer unit is present and the self-stabilizing linker assembly to
the Drug unit when both the Cleavable unit and the Spacer unit are absent. As described, a
Stretcher unit is capable of attaching to more than one Cleavable unit, Spacer unit, and/or Drug
unit.
[0189]     The Stretcher unit can also act to alter the physiochemical properties of the Drug
Linker depending on components of the Stretcher unit. In some aspects, the Stretcher unit will be
added in order to increase the solubility of the Drug-Linker and will comprise one or multiple
solubility-enhancing groups such as ionic groups or water-soluble polymers. Water-soluble
typically includes any segment or polymer that is soluble in water at room temperature and
includes poly(ethylene)glycol groups as well as other polymers such as polyethyleneimines.
[0190]     A Stretcher unit can comprise one or multiple stretcher groups. Exemplary stretcher
groups include, for example, -NH-C1 -C10 alkylene-, -NH-C1 -C10 alkylene-NH-C(O)-C1-Cio
alkylene-, -NH-C1 -C10 alkylene-C(O)-NH-C1 -C10 alkylene-, -NH-(CH 2 CH 2 0)s-, -NH
(CH 2CH 20)s-CH 2 -, -NH-(CH 2CH 2NH)s-(CH 2),
-NH-(CH 2 CH 2NH)s-(CH 2)s-NH-C(O)-(CH 2)s, -NH-(C 3 -C8 carbocyclo)-, -NH-(arylene-)-, and
-NH-(C 3-C8 heterocyclo-)-, wherein each s is independently 1-10. A representative stretcher
                                                   72

group having a carbonyl group for linkage to the remainder of the Linker unit or the Drug unit is
as follow:
                                                                   0
                                           -    -NH-R1-
wherein R13 is -Ci-Cio alkylene-, -C3 -C 8carbocyclo-, -arylene-, -C1-C 3oheteroalkylene-, -C 3
C8heterocyclo-, -C1-Cioalkylene-arylene-, -arylene-C1-Cioalkylene-, -C 1 -Cioalkylene-(C 3
C8 carbocyclo)-, -(C 3-C 8carbocyclo)-C 1 -Cioalkylene-, -C 1 -Cioalkylene-(C 3-C8 heterocyclo)-, -(C 3
C8 heterocyclo)-C1-Cio alkylene-, -(CH 2 CH 2 0) 1 .1 o(-CH 2 ) 1 -3 -, or -(CH 2CH 2NH) 1.1o(-CH 2) 1-3-.
In some embodiments, R         is -Ci-Cio alkylene- or -C1-C 3oheteroalkylene-. In some
embodiments, R        is -Ci-Cio alkylene-, -(CH 2 CH 20) 11. o(-CH 2) 1-3-, or
-(CH 2CH 2NH) 1.1 o(-CH 2)1-3-. In some embodiments, R         is -Ci-Cio alkylene- polyethyleneglycol,
or polyethyleneimine.
[0191]    Non-cleavable drug release systems are known in the art and can be adapted for use
with the self-stabilizing linker assemblies of the present invention as Stretcher units and/or
Spacer units. A non-cleavable linker in capable of linking a Drug unit to a Ligand in a generally
stable and covalent manner and is substantially resistant to acid-induced cleavage, light-induced
cleavage, peptidase- or esterase-induced cleavage, and disulfide bond cleavage. Drug is released
from Ligand Drug Conjugates containing non-cleavable linkers via alternative mechanisms, such
as proteolytic ligand degradation.
[0192]    Cross-linking reagents that form non-cleavable linkers between maytansinoid drugs and
ligands are well known in the art and can adapted for use herein. Exemplary cross-linking
reagants that form non-cleavable linkers between the maytansinoid drugs and ligands comprise a
maleimido or haloacetyl-based moiety. They include N-succinimidyl 4
(maleimidomethyl)cyclohexanecarboxylate (SMCC), N-succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)
cyclohexane-1-carboxy-(6-amidocaproate), which is a "long chain" analog of SMCC (LC
SMCC), K-maleimidoundecanoic acid N-succinimidyl ester (KMUA), y -maleimidobutyric acid
N-succinimidyl ester (GMBS), c-maleimidocaproic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (EMCS),
m-maleimidobenzoyl-N-hydroxysuccinimide ester(MBS), N-(.alpha.-maleimidoacetoxy)
succinimide ester [AMAS], succinimidyl-6-(p -maleimidopropionamido)hexanoate (SMPH), N
                                                    73

succinimidyl 4-(p-maleimidophenyl)-butyrate (SMPB), and N-(p-maleimidophenyl)isocyanate
(PMPI), N-succinimidyl-4-(iodoacetyl)-aminobenzoate (SIAB), N-succinimidyl iodoacetate
(SIA), N-succinimidyl bromoacetate (SBA) and N-succinimidyl 3-(bromoacetamido)propionate
(SBAP).     Additional Stretcher units for use in combination with the self-stabilizing linker
assembly of the present invention can be found, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 8,142,784,
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.
                The Cleavable Unit
[0193]    The Cleavable unit (-W-), when present, is capable of linking the self-stabilizing linker
assembly to the Spacer unit when the Spacer unit is present or the self-stabilizing linker
assembly to the Drug unit when the Spacer unit is absent. The linkage from the self-stabilizing
linker assembly to the Spacer unit or to the Drug unit can be directly from the self-stabilizing
linker assembly when the Stretcher unit is absent or via the Stretcher unit if the Stretcher unit is
present.
[0194]    In some embodiment, the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the self
stabilizing linker assembly on one end and to the Drug unit on the other end. In other
embodiments, the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the Stretcher unit on one end and
to the Drug unit on the other end. In yet other embodiments, the Cleavable unit will be directly
conjugated to the Stretcher unit on one end and to the Spacer unit on the other end. In even yet
other embodiments, the Cleavable unit will be directly conjugated to the self-stabilizing linker
assembly on one end and to the Spacer unit on the other end. Any of specifically described self
stabilizing linker assemblies described herein can be used in these embodiments.
[0195]    The Cleavable unit is capable of forming a cleavable bond with a Drug unit or a Spacer
unit. Reactive groups for forming cleavable bonds can include, for example, sulfhydryl groups
to form disulfide bonds, aldehyde, ketone, or hydrazine groups to form hydrazone bonds,
carboxylic or amino groups to form peptide bonds, and carboxylic or hydroxy groups to form
ester bonds.
[0196]    The nature of the Cleavable unit can vary widely. For example, cleavable linkers
include disulfide containing linkers that are cleavable through disulfide exchange, acid-labile
                                                  74

linkers that are cleavable at acidic pH, and linkers that are cleavable by hydrolases, peptidases,
esterases, and glucoronidases.
[0197]     In some aspects, the structure and sequence of the Cleavable unit is such that the unit is
cleaved by the action of enzymes present at the target site. In other aspects, the Cleavable unit
can be cleavable by other mechanisms. The Cleavable unit can comprise one or multiple
cleavage sites.
[0198]     In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit will comprise one amino acid or one or more
sequences of amino acids. The Cleavable unit can comprise, for example, a monopeptide, a
dipeptide, tripeptide, tetrapeptide, pentapeptide, hexapeptide, heptapeptide, octapeptide,
nonapeptide, decapeptide, undecapeptide or dodecapeptide unit.
[0199]     Each amino acid can be natural or unnatural and/or a D- or L-isomer provided of course
that there is a cleavable bond. In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit will comprise only
natural amino acids. In some aspects, the Cleavable unit will comprise 1 to 12 amino acids in
contiguous sequence.
[0200]     In some embodiments, each amino acid is independently selected from the group
consisting of alanine, arginine, aspartic acid, asparagine, histidine, glycine, glutamic acid,
glutamine, phenylalanine, lysine, leucine, serine, tyrosine, threonine, isoleucine, proline,
tryptophan, valine, cysteine, methionine, selenocysteine, ornithine, penicillamine,   p-alanine,
aminoalkanoic acid, aminoalkynoic acid, aminoalkanedioic acid, aminobenzoic acid, amino
heterocyclo-alkanoic acid, heterocyclo-carboxylic acid, citrulline, statine, diaminoalkanoic acid,
and derivatives thereof. In some embodiments, each amino acid is independently selected from
the group consisting of alanine, arginine, aspartic acid, asparagine, histidine, glycine, glutamic
acid, glutamine, phenylalanine, lysine, leucine, serine, tyrosine, threonine, isoleucine, proline,
tryptophan, valine, cysteine, methionine, and selenocysteine. In some embodiments, each amino
acid is independently selected from the group consisting of alanine, arginine, aspartic acid,
asparagine, histidine, glycine, glutamic acid, glutamine, phenylalanine, lysine, leucine, serine,
tyrosine, threonine, isoleucine, proline, tryptophan, and valine. In some embodiments, each
amino acid is selected from the proteinogenic or the non-proteinogenic amino acids.
                                                  75

[0201]     In another embodiment, each amino acid is independently selected from the group
consisting of the following L-(natural) amino acids: alanine, arginine, aspartic acid, asparagine,
histidine, glycine, glutamic acid, glutamine, phenylalanine, lysine, leucine, serine, tyrosine,
threonine, isoleucine, tryptophan and valine.
[0202]     In another embodiment, each amino acid is independently selected from the group
consisting of the following D-isomers of these natural amino acids: alanine, arginine, aspartic
acid, asparagine, histidine, glycine, glutamic acid, glutamine, phenylalanine, lysine, leucine,
serine, tyrosine, threonine, isoleucine, tryptophan and valine.
[0203]     In some embodiments, the bond between the Cleavable unit and the Drug unit can be
enzymatically cleaved by one or more enzymes, including a tumor-associated protease, to
liberate the Drug unit (-D), which in one embodiment is protonated in vivo upon release to
provide a Drug (D).
[0204]     Useful Cleavable units can be designed and optimized in their selectivity for enzymatic
cleavage by a particular enzyme, for example, a tumor-associated protease. In one embodiment,
a linkage (or bond) between the Cleavable unit and the Drug unit or Spacer unit is that which
cleavage is catalyzed by cathepsin B, C and D, or a plasmin protease.
[0205]     In certain embodiments, the Cleavable unit can comprise only natural amino acids. In
other embodiments, the Cleavable unit can comprise only non-natural amino acids. In some
embodiments, the Cleavable unit can comprise a natural amino acid linked to a non-natural
amino acid. In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit can comprise a natural amino acid linked
to a D-isomer of a natural amino acid.
[0206]     An exemplary Cleavable unit is the dipeptide -Val-Cit-, -Phe-Lys- or -Val-Ala.
[0207]     In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit will comprises a peptide and will comprise
from 1 to 12 amino acids. In some such embodiments, the peptide will be conjugated directly to
the Drug unit and the Spacer unit will be absent. In some such embodiments, the Stretcher unit
and Spacer unit will be absent. In one aspect, the peptide will be a dipeptide.
[0208]     In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit -W,- will be represented by -(-AA-)-1 2 -, or
(-AA-AA-) 1 6 wherein AA is at each occurrence independently selected from natural or non
                                                  76

natural amino acids. In one aspect, AA is at each occurrence independently selected from
natural amino acids. One of skill in the art would appreciate that amino acids are typically linked
to the Drug unit or Spacer unit through functional units present in the amino acid, e.g., its
carboxylic acid or amino termini.
[0209]    In some such aspects, the Ligand Drug Conjugates and Drug-Linkers are represented
                                                        SS   TT
by the following formulae or salts thereof wherein L, L , L     A, a', AA, Y, y', D, and p are as
defined in any of the embodiments described herein and f is an integer from I to 12:
 L     LT-     Aa.-AAF      Yy -D)
   L     Lss    Aa-AAq Yy-D
 L     LTLAa.-AA          D)
 L     Ls      Aa-AAFD
                         DP
  L
        LTT
                AD
 L     Ls~s-    AA     D
                            P
                                                77

  LTT--Aa.-AA -Yy.-D
  Ls     Aa.-AAf      Y.-D
 LTT-   Aa.-AAYDD
 Ls     AaAAFD
      LTTA~gDor
 LSS     AAq--D
[0210] It will be understood that although not reflected in the above formulae, such formulaes
can be modified as taught herein to include branched linkers, i.e., multiple Drug units can be
attached to each self-stabilizing linker assembly.
[0211]    In other aspects, the Cleavable unit will comprise a glucoronide unit, preferably 1 or 2
glucoronide units. In some such embodiments, the Glucuronide unit comprises a sugar moiety
(Su) linked via a glycoside bond (-0'-) to a self-immolative Spacer:
                                        -[Su-O'-Y]
[0212]    The glycosidic bond (-0'-) is typically a p-glucuronidase-cleavage site, such as a bond
cleavable by human, lysosomal p-glucuronidase.
[0213]    In some aspects, -[Su-O'-Y]- is represented by the following formula:
                                      RSu
                                 R                     R
                           Su'              R          R          R
                                     HNor
                                                            HN
wherein Su is a Sugar moiety,_-O'- represents a glycosidic bond; each R is independently
hydrogen, a halogen, -CN, or -NO 2 ; wherein the wavy bond adjacent to the nitrogen atom
indicates covalent attachment to the Stretcher unit or to the Ligand and the wavy bond adjacent
to the oxygen indicates covalent attachment to the Spacer unit or to the Drug unit. An exemplary
                                                 78

Linker unit comprising a glucoronide prior to conjugation to an antibody and post conjugation is
as follows wherein the wavy line indicates attachment to a Drug unit or Spacer unit and Ab
represents an antibody and S is a sulfur atom of the antibody. It will be understood that more
than one self-stabilizing assembly can be attached to each antibody:
                                                  0
                                                HO   0
                                 CO2H              N          O
                               HO          O       H            N
                                         OH                H          O
                                                                  NH2
                                               O
                                             N0
                              CO 2H             N
                           HO     zi     OOH    H       N   H       O   OH H|
                             HO-                       N-A
                                                       H2N             Ab
[0214]    In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit itself will comprise a sulfur atom that is
capable of forming a bond with a sulfur atom of a Spacer unit or Drug unit to form a disulfide or
hindered disulfide.    Cleavage occurs between the two sulfur atoms of the disulfide. In some
such embodiments, one of the sulfur atoms is cleaved from the Drug unit and, provided there is
no further release mechanism, the other sulfur atom remains attached to the Drug unit. A Linker
unit comprising a Cleavable unit having a sulfur atom is capable of forming a bond with a sulfur
atom of a Spacer unit or Drug unit to form a disulfide or hindered disulfide
[0215]    Exemplary linkers include, for example, the following Drug-Linker wherein the wavy
line indicates the site of attachment to the remainder of the Linker unit, D is a maytansinoid
drug, and Ra and Rb are independently selected from H or methyl.
                                                  79

                        Rb                0
          -    S-S-C-CHt2-CH2-C-D
                        Ra
[0216]    A variety of disulfide linkers are known in the art and can adapted for use in the present
invention, including, for example, those that can be formed using SATA (N-succinimidyl-S
acetylthioacetate), SPDP (N-succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate), SPDB (N
succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)butyrate), SMPT (N-succinimidyl-oxycarbonyl-alpha-methyl
alpha-(2-pyridyl-dithio)toluene), and SPP (N-succinimidyl 4-(2-pyridyldithio)pentanoate). (See,
e.g., Thorpe et al., 1987, CancerRes. 47:5924-593 1; Wawrzynczak et al., In Immunoconjugates:
Antibody Conjugates in Radioimageryand Therapy of Cancer (C. W. Vogel ed., Oxford U.
Press, 1987. See also U.S. Patent No. 4,880,935.)
[0217]    In some embodiments, the cleavable linker is pH-sensitive and will comprise, for
example, an acid-labile linker that is hydrolyzable in the lysosome (e.g., a hydrazone,
semicarbazone, thiosemicarbazone, cis-aconitic amide, orthoester, acetal, or ketal group) can be
used. (See, e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,122,368; 5,824,805; 5,622,929; Dubowchik and Walker,
 1999, Pharm. Therapeutics 83:67-123; Neville et al., 1989, Biol. Chem. 264:14653-14661.)
Such linkers are relatively stable under neutral pH conditions, such as those in the blood, but are
unstable at below pH 5.5 or 5.0, the approximate pH of the lysosome.
[0218]    In some embodiments, the Cleavable unit will be conjugated directly to the Drug unit
and the Spacer unit will be absent and the Cleavable unit will be linked to the Drug unit via a
cleavable peptide, disulfide, or hydrazone bond.
                 The Spacer Unit
[0219]    The Spacer unit (-Y-), when present, links a Cleavable unit to the Drug unit or a
Stretcher unit to the Drug unit or a self-stabilizing linker assembly to a Drug unit. Like the
Stretcher unit, the Spacer unit, when present can act to extend the framework of the Linker unit.
The Spacer unit can comprise multiple self-immolative or non-self immolative groups. In some
embodiments, the Spacer unit comprises one or more self-immolative groups. In this context,
the term "self-immolative group" refers to a bifunctional chemical moiety that is capable of
                                                   80

covalently linking together two spaced chemical moieties into a normally stable tripartite
molecule. It will spontaneously separate from the second chemical moiety if its bond to the first
moiety is cleaved.     In other embodiments, the Spacer unit is not self-immolative. In these
embodiments, part or all of the Spacer unit remains attached to the Drug unit.
[0220]    In some embodiments, -Y- is a self-immolative group and is linked to a Cleavable unit
via the methylene carbon atom of the self-immolative group, and linked connected directly to the
Drug unit via a carbonate, carbamate or ether group.
[0221]    In some embodiments, -Yy- is a p-aminobenzyl alcohol (PAB) unit whose phenylene
portion is optionally substituted with -CI-C 8 alkyl, -O-(C 1 -C8 alkyl), -halogen,- nitro or -cyano.
In another embodiment, -Yy- can be a carbonate group. An unsubstituted PAB unit is as
follows:
                                                                         0
                                              HNO
[0222]    Other examples of self-immolative groups include, but are not limited to, aromatic
compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2-aminoimidazol-5-methanol
derivatives (see, e.g., Hay et al., 1999, Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9:2237) and ortho or para
aminobenzylacetals. Spacers can be used that undergo cyclization upon amide bond hydrolysis,
such as substituted and unsubstituted 4-aminobutyric acid amides (see, e.g., Rodrigues et al.,
 1995, Chemistry Biology 2:223), appropriately substituted bicyclo[2.2. 1] and bicyclo[2.2.2] ring
systems (see, e.g., Storm et al., 1972, J Amer. Chem. Soc. 94:5815) and 2-aminophenylpropionic
acid amides (see, e.g., Amsberry et al., 1990, J Org. Chem. 55:5867). Elimination of amine
containing drugs that are substituted at the a-position of glycine (see, e.g., Kingsbury et al., 1984,
J Med. Chem. 27:1447) are also examples of self-immolative groups.
[0223]    Other suitable Spacer units are disclosed in Published U.S. Patent Application No.
2005-0238649, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
[0224]    Exemplary Stretcher units, Cleavable units, and Spacer units that can be used with the
present compositions and methods are described in WO 2004010957, WO 2007/038658, WO
                                                  81

2005/112919, U.S. Patent No. 6,214,345, 7,659,241, 7,498,298, 7,968,687, 8,163,888,         and U.S.
Publication No. 2009-0111756, 2009-0018086, 2009-0274713, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.
[0225]    In embodiments wherein the Conjugates are conjugated to a Stability unit or a
Detection unit in lieu of a Drug unit, the optional Secondary Linker Assembly will typically be
absent. In embodiments where the Secondary Linker Assembly is present, the Stretcher unit will
generally be present but the Cleavable unit and the Spacer unit will be absent. The Stretcher unit
will extend the framework of the Linker unit to provide more distance between the self
stabilizing assembly and the Detection unit or Stability unit. In such aspects, the Stretcher unit is
capable of linking the self-stabilizing linker assembly to the Detection unit or the Stability unit.
DRUG LOADING
[0226]    The number of self-stabilizing linkers per Ligand is represented by p. In embodiments
wherein the linkers are not branched, p represents the number of drug-linker molecules (or
detection-linker or stability-linker molecules) per Ligand molecule (e.g., antibody). Depending
on the context, p can represent the average number of self-stabilizing linkers per Ligand (or in
embodiments where the linkers are not branched, the average number of drug-linker molecules
(or detection-linker or stability-linker molecules) per Ligand (e.g., antibody)). The variable p
ranges from 1 to 20, typically 1 to 12, 1 to 10 and is preferably from 1 to 8. In some preferred
embodiments, when p represents the average number of self-stabilizing linkers per antibody, p
ranges from about 2 to about 5. In some embodiments, p is about 2, about 4, or about 8.       In
some preferred embodiments, when p represents the average number of drug-linker molecules
per antibody, p ranges from about 2 to about 5. In some embodiments, p is about 2, about 4, or
about 8.    The number of D' per self-stabilizing linkers is represented by u. u ranges from 1 to
 10.
[0227]    The average number of Drugs units per Ligand unit in a preparation from a conjugation
reaction may be characterized by conventional means such as mass spectroscopy, ELISA assay,
HIC and HPLC. The quantitative distribution of Drug-Linker-Ligand conjugates in terms of p
may also be determined. In some instances, separation, purification, and characterization of
homogeneous Ligand-Drug Conjugates, where p is a certain value from Ligand-Drug Conjugate
                                                   82

with other drug loadings may be achieved by means such as reverse phase HPLC or
electrophoresis.
Self-Stabilizing Linker Assembly (L ss or LTT) and Rates of Hydrolysis
[0228]    The Self-Stabilizing linker assembly links the Ligand unit to a Stretcher unit if the
Stretcher unit is present, links the Ligand unit to a Cleavable unit if the Stretcher unit is absent
and a Cleavable unit is present, links the Ligand unit to a Spacer unit if the Stretcher unit and the
Cleavable unit are absent and the Spacer unit is present, or links the Ligand Unit to D' (e.g., a
Drug Unit) if the Stretcher unit, Cleavable unit and Spacer unit are absent. In some
embodiments, the Stretcher unit, Cleavable unit, and Spacer unit will be absent and the self
stabilizing linker assembly will be conjugated directly to D' (e.g., a Drug Unit). In other
embodiments, one or more of the Stretcher unit, Cleavable unit, and Spacer unit will be present.
[0229]    The rate at which the thio-substituted succinimide of the Self-Stabilizing Linker when
part of a Ligand-Drug Conjugate undergoes hydrolysis can be quantified using the t1/2 of
hydrolysis. t1/2 of hydrolysis refers to the time taken for half of the compound of interest to
hydrolyze, i.e., undergo a ring opening, under stated conditions (e.g., pH 7.4 and 22'C).       In
some embodiments of the present invention, the t1/2 of hydrolysis of the thio-substituted
succinimide of the Self-Stabilizing Linker unit is less than 4 hours, preferably less than 3 hours,
even more preferably, less than 2 hours, less than 1 hour, less than 45 minutes, less than 30
minutes, less than 15 minutes using the following assay and stated conditions.
[0230]    The hydrolysis reaction rates of maleimido drug linkers following conjugation to
antibody cysteines can be determined by mass spectrometry, as the hydrolyzed product has a
molecular weight 18 daltons greater than the unhydrolyzed conjugate. Reduction of the
interchain disulfides of a human IgGI creates a single reduced cysteine on the light chain and
three reduced cysteines on the heavy chain. The self-stabilizing maleimide drug-linker can then
be conjugated to the reduced antibody at pH 7.4 and 22'C and introduced to a high-resolution
electrospray mass spectrometer via a reversed-phase HPLC column which separates the
conjugated light and heavy chains. The masses of the conjugated light and heavy chains can thus
be measured, and the peak intensities determined by standard mass spectrometry data processing
software (e.g., MassLynx). By performing a series of injections over time, the disappearance of
the peak corresponding to the mass of the original, unhydrolyzed conjugate and the appearance
                                                   83

of the peak corresponding to the mass of the hydrolyzed conjugate can be monitored, the
intensities of the peaks determined, and the percentage of hydrolyzed conjugate calculated at
each timepoint. By plotting the hydrolysis percentage versus time, a curve is generated (e.g.,
using PRISM) which can be fit to a standard equation for exponential phenomena which includes
a parameter for t1/2.
[0231]     In some aspects, the Self-Stabilizing Linker will be designed such that the maleimide
component of the Self-Stabilizing Linker does not substantially undergo hydrolysis prior to
conjugation to the Ligand unit.
[0232]     In some embodiments of the present invention, the t1/2 of hydrolysis of the thio
substituted succinimide of the Self-Stabilizing Linker is from about 5 or about 10 minutes to
about 24 hours, preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 12 hours, more preferably
from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 5 hours, more preferably from about 5 or about 10
minutes to about 2.5 hours, even more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 1
hour, even more preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 30 minutes, even more
preferably from about 5 or about 10 minutes to about 20 minutes, and even more preferably from
about 10 minutes to about 15 minutes at a pH of about 7 to about 7.5 (e.g., 7.4) and a
temperature of about 22 C.
[0233]     In some such embodiments wherein the t1/2 of hydrolysis is as stated above, the
hydrolysis goes to completion. Complete hydrolysis is considered to be achieved if 90% of the
thio-substituted succinimide hydrolyzes. Preferably, 95% or greater, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or
 100% hydrolysis will be achieved. In some embodiments, the hydrolysis reaction will compete
with a dilactam formation and will not achieve completion. In some such embodiments, at least
90% of the reaction product will be a combination of either a hydrolyzed thio-substituted
succinimide Ligand-Drug Conjugate or a thio-substituted dilactam Ligand-Drug Conjugate.
Preferably at least 95% or greater, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% of the reaction product will be
a combination of either a hydrolyzed thio-substituted Ligand-Drug Conjugate or a thio
substituted dilactam Ligand-Drug Conjugate. The percentage of hydrolysis can be calculated
from the mass spectrometric data of the conjugate at the final timepoint by determining the
intensity of the peak corresponding to the mass of the original, unhydrolyzed conjugate and the
                                                  84

intensity of the peak corresponding to the mass of the hydrolyzed conjugate, and using the sum
of the peak intensities to determine the percentage hydrolyzed and percentage unhydrolyzed.
[0234]     In addition to characterizing the Ligand-Drug Conjugate by its t1/2 of hydrolysis and/or
the efficiency of the hydrolysis reaction, the stability of the Ligand-Drug Conjugate can be
characterized by the ability of the Ligand-Drug Conjugate to undergo an elimination reaction and
for the Drug-Linker to be transferred from the Ligand unit to an alternative reactive thiol present
in the milieu of the Ligand-Drug Conjugate. In some embodiments, the Drug-Linker will
exhibit no or substantially no disassociation from the Ligand under the following assay and
stated conditions. The phrase "substantially no disassociation from the Ligand" is considered to
be achieved if less than 40%, preferably less than 20%, even more preferably less than 10%, or
even more preferably less than 5% or less than 2% of the Drug-Linker in a sample disassociates
from the Ligand.
[0235]     The elimination of a drug-linker containing an enzyme-cleavable linker from an
antibody can be measured in ex vivo plasma by the following method. The conjugate is placed in
sterile plasma and incubated at 37'C. At the beginning of the incubation and at varying
timepoints from 1 hour to 1 week or longer, an aliquot is removed at frozen at -80'C. Upon
completion of the timepoints, the samples are passed over a protein A affinity resin to capture the
antibody, the resin is washed with buffer, and then drug is released from the captured antibody
by treatment with an appropriate enzyme (e.g. papain or proteinase K for peptide-based
cleavable linkers). The released drug can then be quantified by standard LC-MS methodology,
and the quantity of drug measured at each timepoint divided by the quantity of drug measured for
the pre-incubation aliquot to determine the percentage of drug remaining conjugated to the
antibody at each timepoint. The precision of this assay can be improved by including an internal
standard antibody-drug conjugate which is prepared using an isotopically labeled version of the
same drug-linker, such that the drug which is released from it can be detected independently in
the LC-MS assay from the drug released from the test drug-linker by virtue of its mass
difference. This isotopically labeled internal standard antibody-drug conjugate is added to each
sample in equal amounts immediately prior to the protein A capture step. The quantitation of the
drug released from the test ADC is then performed ratiometrically to the signal from the internal
standard by conventional LC-MS techniques.
                                                  85

[0236]     An alternative method for evaluating the elimination of a maleimide drug-linker from
an antibody (or other ligand) is to incubate the conjugate in buffer (e.g., phosphate-buffered
saline) at slightly elevated pH (e.g., pH 8.0) in the presence of a large excess of a small-molecule
thiol (e.g., N-acetyl cysteine, NAC) which will react with any maleimide that eliminates from the
parent conjugate. LC-MS assays can be performed to detect and quantify the drug-linker
conjugated to NAC, or the parent ligand-conjugate. In the latter case, the ratio of the ligand
conjugate to unconjugated ligand can be measured and will remain constant over time if the
ligand-conjugate is stable.    Additional methods are provided in the examples section.
Treatment of Cancer
[0237]     The Ligand-Drug Conjugates are useful for inhibiting the multiplication of a tumor cell
or cancer cell, causing apoptosis in a tumor or cancer cell, or for treating cancer in a patient. The
Ligand-Drug Conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of
cancers. The Ligand-Drug Conjugates can be used to deliver a drug to a tumor cell or cancer
cell. Without being bound by theory, in one embodiment, the Ligand unit of a Ligand-Drug
Conjugate binds to or associates with a cancer-cell or a tumor-cell-associated antigen, and the
Ligand-Drug Conjugate can be taken up (internalized) inside a tumor cell or cancer cell through
receptor-mediated endocytosis or other internalization mechanism. The antigen can be attached
to a tumor cell or cancer cell or can be an extracellular matrix protein associated with the tumor
cell or cancer cell. Once inside the cell, via a cleavable or non-cleavable mechanism, depending
upon the components of the linker system, the drug is released within the cell. In an alternative
embodiment, the Drug or Drug unit is cleaved from the Ligand-Drug Conjugate outside the
tumor cell or cancer cell, and the Drug or Drug unit subsequently penetrates the cell.
[0238]     The Ligand-Drug Conjugates can provide conjugation-specific tumor or cancer drug
targeting, thus reducing general toxicity of the drug. In some embodiments, the Linker units
stabilize the Ligand-Drug Conjugates in blood, yet are capable of liberating drug once inside the
cell.
[0239]     In one embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to the tumor cell or cancer cell.
                                                   86

[0240]    In another embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to a tumor cell or cancer cell antigen
which is on the surface of the tumor cell or cancer cell.
[0241]    In another embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to a tumor cell or cancer cell antigen
which is an extracellular matrix protein associated with the tumor cell or cancer cell.
[0242]    The specificity of the Ligand unit for a particular tumor cell or cancer cell can be
important for determining those tumors or cancers that are most effectively treated. For
example, a ligand drug conjugate having a BR96 Ligand unit can be useful for treating antigen
positive carcinomas including those of the lung, breast, colon, ovaries, and pancreas. Ligand
Drug Conjugates having an anti-CD30 or an anti-CD70 binding Ligand unit can be useful for
treating hematologic malignancies.
[0243]    Other particular types of cancers that can be treated with a ligand drug conjugates
include, but are not limited to, those disclosed in Table 1:
                                               Table 1
[0244]    Solid tumors, including but not limited to:
                fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma,
                chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma,
                lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor,
                leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, colon cancer, colorectal cancer, kidney
                cancer, pancreatic cancer, bone cancer, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate
                cancer, esophogeal cancer, stomach cancer, oral cancer, nasal cancer, throat
                cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat
                gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary
                adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic
                carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma,
                choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical
                cancer, uterine cancer, testicular cancer, small cell lung carcinoma, bladder
                carcinoma, lung cancer, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, glioblastoma multiforme,
                astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma,
                                                   87

                hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, skin
                cancer, melanoma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma
                blood-borne cancers, including but not limited to:
                acute lymphoblastic leukemia "ALL", acute lymphoblastic B-cell leukemia,
                acute lymphoblastic T-cell leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia "AML", acute
                promyelocytic leukemia "APL", acute monoblastic leukemia, acute
                erythroleukemic leukemia, acute megakaryoblastic leukemia, acute
                myelomonocytic leukemia, acute nonlymphocyctic leukemia, acute
                undifferentiated leukemia, chronic myelocytic leukemia "CML", chronic
                lymphocytic leukemia "CLL", hairy cell leukemia, multiple myeloma
                acute and chronic leukemias:
                lymphoblastic, myelogenous, lymphocytic, myelocytic leukemias
                Lymphomas:
                Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Multiple myeloma,
                Waldenstr6m's macroglobulinemia, Heavy chain disease, Polycythemia vera
                Multi-Modality Therapy for Cancer
[0245]    Cancers, including, but not limited to, a tumor, metastasis, or other disease or disorder
characterized by uncontrolled cell growth, can be treated or inhibited by administration of a
Ligand-Drug Conjugate.
[0246]    In other embodiments, methods for treating cancer are provided, including
administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a Ligand-Drug Conjugate and a
chemotherapeutic agent. In one embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that with which
treatment of the cancer has not been found to be refractory. In another embodiment, the
chemotherapeutic agent is that with which the treatment of cancer has been found to be
refractory. The Ligand-Drug Conjugates can be administered to a patient that has also
undergone surgery as treatment for the cancer.
                                                  88

[0247]     In some embodiments, the patient also receives an additional treatment, such as
radiation therapy. In a specific embodiment, the Ligand-Drug Conjugate is administered
concurrently with the chemotherapeutic agent or with radiation therapy. In another specific
embodiment, the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy is administered prior or subsequent
to administration of a ligand drug conjugate.
[0248]     A chemotherapeutic agent can be administered over a series of sessions. Any one or a
combination of the chemotherapeutic agents, such a standard of care chemotherapeutic agent(s),
can be administered.
[0249]     Additionally, methods of treatment of cancer with a Ligand-Drug Conjugate are
provided as an alternative to chemotherapy or radiation therapy where the chemotherapy or the
radiation therapy has proven or can prove too toxic, e.g., results in unacceptable or unbearable
side effects, for the subject being treated. The patient being treated can, optionally, be treated
with another cancer treatment such as surgery, radiation therapy or chemotherapy, depending on
which treatment is found to be acceptable or bearable.
                 Treatment of Autoimmune Diseases
[0250]     The Ligand-Drug Conjugates are useful for killing or inhibiting the replication of a cell
that produces an autoimmune disease or for treating an autoimmune disease. The Ligand-Drug
Conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of an autoimmune
disease in a patient. The Ligand-Drug Conjugates can be used to deliver a drug to a target cell.
Without being bound by theory, in one embodiment, the Ligand-Drug Conjugate associates with
an antigen on the surface of a target cell, and the ligand drug conjugate is then taken up inside a
target-cell through receptor-mediated endocytosis. Once inside the cell, one or more specific
peptide sequences within the Linker unit are cleaved, resulting in release of the Drug or Drug
unit. The released Drug or Drug unit is then free to migrate in the cytosol and induce cytotoxic
or cytostatic activities.  In an alternative embodiment, the Drug is cleaved from the Ligand
Drug Conjugate outside the target cell, and the Drug or Drug unit subsequently penetrates the
cell.
                                                  89

[0251]     In one embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to an autoimmune antigen. In one aspect, the
antigen is on the surface of a cell involved in an autoimmune condition.
[0252]     In another embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to an autoimmune antigen which is on
the surface of a cell.
[0253]     In one embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to activated lymphocytes that are associated
with the autoimmune disease state.
[0254]     In a further embodiment, the Ligand-Drug Conjugate kills or inhibit the multiplication
of cells that produce an autoimmune antibody associated with a particular autoimmune disease.
[0255]     Particular types of autoimmune diseases that can be treated with the ligand drug
conjugates include, but are not limited to, Th2 lymphocyte related disorders (e.g., atopic
dermatitis, atopic asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, allergic rhinitis, Omenn's syndrome, systemic
sclerosis, and graft versus host disease); Th1 lymphocyte-related disorders (e.g., rheumatoid
arthritis, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, Sjorgren's syndrome, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Grave's
disease, primary biliary cirrhosis, Wegener's granulomatosis, and tuberculosis); activated B
lymphocyte-related disorders (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus, Goodpasture's syndrome,
rheumatoid arthritis, and type I diabetes); and those disclosed in Table 2.
                                                Table 2
                 Active Chronic Hepatitis, Addison's Disease, Allergic Alveolitis, Allergic
                 Reaction, Allergic Rhinitis, Alport's Syndrome, Anaphlaxis, Ankylosing
                 Spondylitis, Anti-phosholipid Syndrome, Arthritis, Ascariasis, Aspergillosis,
                 Atopic Allergy, Atropic Dermatitis, Atropic Rhinitis, Behcet's Disease, Bird
                 Fancier's Lung, Bronchial Asthma, Caplan's Syndrome, Cardiomyopathy, Celiac
                 Disease, Chagas' Disease, Chronic Glomerulonephritis, Cogan's Syndrome, Cold
                 Agglutinin Disease, Congenital Rubella Infection, CREST Syndrome, Crohn's
                 Disease, Cryoglobulinemia, Cushing's Syndrome, Dermatomyositis, Discoid
                 Lupus, Dressler's Syndrome, Eaton-Lambert Syndrome, Echovirus Infection,
                 Encephalomyelitis, Endocrine opthalmopathy, Epstein-Barr Virus Infection,
                 Equine Heaves, Erythematosis, Evan's Syndrome, Felty's Syndrome,
                 Fibromyalgia, Fuch's Cyclitis, Gastric Atrophy, Gastrointestinal Allergy, Giant
                                                    90

                 Cell Arteritis, Glomerulonephritis, Goodpasture's Syndrome, Graft v. Host
                 Disease, Graves' Disease, Guillain-Barre Disease, Hashimoto's Thyroiditis,
                 Hemolytic Anemia, Henoch-Schonlein Purpura, Idiopathic Adrenal Atrophy,
                 Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibritis, IgA Nephropathy, Inflammatory Bowel Diseases,
                 Insulin-dependent Diabetes Mellitus, Juvenile Arthritis, Juvenile Diabetes
                 Mellitus (Type I), Lambert-Eaton Syndrome, Laminitis, Lichen Planus, Lupoid
                 Hepatitis, Lupus, Lymphopenia, Meniere's Disease, Mixed Connective Tissue
                 Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Myasthenia Gravis, Pernicious Anemia,
                 Polyglandular Syndromes, Presenile Dementia, Primary Agammaglobulinemia,
                 Primary Biliary Cirrhosis, Psoriasis, Psoriatic Arthritis, Raynauds Phenomenon,
                 Recurrent Abortion, Reiter's Syndrome, Rheumatic Fever, Rheumatoid Arthritis,
                 Sampter's Syndrome, Schistosomiasis, Schmidt's Syndrome, Scleroderma,
                 Shulman's Syndrome, Sjorgen's Syndrome, Stiff-Man Syndrome, Sympathetic
                 Ophthalmia, Systemic Lupus Erythematosis, Takayasu's Arteritis, Temporal
                 Arteritis, Thyroiditis, Thrombocytopenia, Thyrotoxicosis, Toxic Epidermal
                 Necrolysis, Type B Insulin Resistance, Type I Diabetes Mellitus, Ulcerative
                 Colitis, Uveitis, Vitiligo, Waldenstrom's Macroglobulemia, Wegener's
                 Granulomatosis
                 Multi-Drug Therapy of Autoimmune Diseases
[02561     Methods for treating an autoimmune disease are also disclosed including administering
to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a Ligand-Drug Conjugate and another
therapeutic agent known for the treatment of an autoimmune disease.
                 Treatment of Infectious Diseases
[02571     The Ligand-Drug Conjugates are useful for killing or inhibiting the multiplication of a
cell that produces an infectious disease or for treating an infectious disease. The Ligand-Drug
Conjugates can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of an infectious
disease in a patient. The Ligand-Drug Conjugates can be used to deliver a drug to a target cell.
In one embodiment, the Ligand unit binds to the infectious disease cell.
                                                   91

[0258]   In one embodiment, the conjugates kill or inhibit the multiplication of cells that
produce a particular infectious disease.
[0259]   Particular types of infectious diseases that can be treated with the Ligand-Drug
Conjugates include, but are not limited to, those disclosed in Table 3.
                                               Table 3
       Bacterial Diseases:
               Diphtheria, Pertussis, Occult Bacteremia, Urinary Tract Infection,
               Gastroenteritis, Cellulitis, Epiglottitis, Tracheitis, Adenoid Hypertrophy,
               Retropharyngeal Abcess, Impetigo, Ecthyma, Pneumonia, Endocarditis, Septic
               Arthritis, Pneumococca, Peritonitis, Bactermia, Meningitis, Acute Purulent
               Meningitis, Urethritis, Cervicitis, Proctitis, Pharyngitis, Salpingitis, Epididymitis,
               Gonorrhea, Syphilis, Listeriosis, Anthrax, Nocardiosis, Salmonella, Typhoid
               Fever, Dysentery, Conjunctivitis, Sinusitis, Brucellosis, Tullaremia, Cholera,
               Bubonic Plague, Tetanus, Necrotizing Enteritis, Actinomycosis, Mixed
               Anaerobic Infections, Syphilis, Relapsing Fever, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease,
               Rat Bite Fever, Tuberculosis, Lymphadenitis, Leprosy, Chlamydia, Chlamydial
               Pneumonia, Trachoma, Inclusion Conjunctivitis
       Systemic Fungal Diseases:
               Histoplamosis, Coccidiodomycosis, Blastomycosis, Sporotrichosis,
               Cryptococcsis, Systemic Candidiasis, Aspergillosis, Mucormycosis, Mycetoma,
               Chromomycosis
       Rickettsial Diseases:
               Typhus, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Ehrlichiosis, Eastern Tick-Borne
               Rickettsioses, Rickettsialpox,  Q Fever, Bartonellosis
       Parasitic Diseases:
               Malaria, Babesiosis, African Sleeping Sickness, Chagas' Disease, Leishmaniasis,
               Dum-Dum Fever, Toxoplasmosis, Meningoencephalitis, Keratitis, Entamebiasis,
                                                  92

                Giardiasis, Cryptosporidiasis, Isosporiasis, Cyclosporiasis, Microsporidiosis,
                Ascariasis, Whipworm Infection, Hookworm Infection, Threadworm Infection,
                Ocular Larva Migrans, Trichinosis, Guinea Worm Disease, Lymphatic Filariasis,
                Loiasis, River Blindness, Canine Heartworm Infection, Schistosomiasis,
                Swimmer's Itch, Oriental Lung Fluke, Oriental Liver Fluke, Fascioliasis,
                Fasciolopsiasis, Opisthorchiasis, Tapeworm Infections, Hydatid Disease,
                Alveolar Hydatid Disease
        Viral Diseases:
                Measles, Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, Common Cold, Mumps, Rubella,
                Roseola, Fifth Disease, Chickenpox, Respiratory syncytial virus infection, Croup,
                Bronchiolitis, Infectious Mononucleosis, Poliomyelitis, Herpangina, Hand-Foot
                and-Mouth Disease, Bornholm Disease, Genital Herpes, Genital Warts, Aseptic
                Meningitis, Myocarditis, Pericarditis, Gastroenteritis, Acquired
                Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV),
                Reye's Syndrome, Kawasaki Syndrome, Influenza, Bronchitis, Viral "Walking"
                Pneumonia, Acute Febrile Respiratory Disease, Acute pharyngoconjunctival
                fever, Epidemic keratoconjunctivitis, Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1), Herpes
                Simplex Virus 2 (HSV-2), Shingles, Cytomegalic Inclusion Disease, Rabies,
                Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy, Kuru, Fatal Familial Insomnia,
                Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker Disease, Tropical
                Spastic Paraparesis, Western Equine Encephalitis, California Encephalitis, St.
                Louis Encephalitis, Yellow Fever, Dengue, Lymphocytic choriomeningitis, Lassa
                Fever, Hemorrhagic Fever, Hantvirus Pulmonary Syndrome, Marburg Virus
                Infections, Ebola Virus Infections, Smallpox
                Multi-Drug Therapy of Infectious Diseases
[02601    Methods for treating an infectious disease are disclosed including administering to a
patient in need thereof a Ligand-Drug Conjugate and another therapeutic agent that is an anti
infectious disease agent.
                                                 93

COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF ADMINISTRATION
[0261]    The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising the Ligand
Drug Conjugates described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The Ligand-Drug
Conjugates can be in any form that allows for the compound to be administered to a patient for
treatment of a disorder associated with expression of the antigen to which the Ligand unit binds.
For example, the conjugates can be in the form of a liquid or solid. The preferred route of
administration is parenteral. Parenteral administration includes subcutaneous injections,
intravenous, intramuscular, intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. In one aspect, the
compositions are administered parenterally. In one aspect, the compounds are administered
intravenously.
[0262]    The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising the
Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
The Ligand-Drug Conjugates can be in any form that allows for the compound to be
administered to a patient for treatment of a disorder or for diagnostic purposes
[0263]    Pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated so as to allow a compound to be
bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions can take the
form of one or more dosage units, where for example, a tablet can be a single dosage unit.
[0264]    Materials used in preparing the pharmaceutical compositions can be non-toxic in the
amounts used. It will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that the optimal dosage of
the active ingredient(s) in the pharmaceutical composition will depend on a variety of factors.
Relevant factors include, without limitation, the type of animal (e.g., human), the particular form
of the compound, the manner of administration, and the composition employed.
[0265]    The composition can be, for example, in the form of a liquid. The liquid can be useful
for delivery by injection. In a composition for administration by injection, one or more of a
surfactant, preservative, wetting agent, dispersing agent, suspending agent, buffer, stabilizer and
isotonic agent can also be included.
                                                  94

[0266]     The liquid compositions, whether they are solutions, suspensions or other like form,
can also include one or more of the following: sterile diluents such as water for injection, saline
solution, preferably physiological saline, Ringer's solution, isotonic sodium chloride, fixed oils
such as synthetic mono or digylcerides which can serve as the solvent or suspending medium,
polyethylene glycols, glycerin, cyclodextrin, propylene glycol or other solvents; antibacterial
agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben; antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium
bisulfite; chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as amino acids,
acetates, citrates or phosphates; detergents, such as nonionic surfactants, polyols; and agents for
the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral composition can be
enclosed in ampoule, a disposable syringe or a multiple-dose vial made of glass, plastic or other
material. Physiological saline is an exemplary adjuvant. An injectable composition is preferably
sterile.
[0267]     The amount of the conjugate that is effective in the treatment of a particular disorder or
condition will depend on the nature of the disorder or condition, and can be determined by
standard clinical techniques. In addition, in vitro or in vivo assays can optionally be employed to
help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the compositions will
also depend on the route of administration, and the seriousness of the disease or disorder, and
should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient's circumstances.
[0268]     The compositions comprise an effective amount of a compound such that a suitable
dosage will be obtained. Typically, this amount is at least about 0.01% of a compound by weight
of the composition.
[0269]     For intravenous administration, the composition can comprise from about 0.01 to about
 100 mg of a Ligand-Drug Conjugate per kg of the animal's body weight. In one aspect, the
composition can include from about 1 to about 100 mg of a Ligand-Drug Conjugate per kg of the
animal's body weight. In another aspect, the amount administered will be in the range from
about 0.1 to about 25 mg/kg of body weight of a compound.
[0270]     Generally, the dosage of a compound administered to a patient is typically about 0.01
mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg of the subject's body weight. In some embodiments, the dosage
administered to a patient is between about 0.01 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg of the subject's body
weight. In some embodiments, the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg/kg
                                                  95

and about 15 mg/kg of the subject's body weight. In some embodiments, the dosage
administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg/kg and about 20 mg/kg of the subject's body
weight. In some embodiments, the dosage administered is between about 0.1 mg/kg to about 5
mg/kg or about 0.1 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg of the subject's body weight. In some
embodiments, the dosage administered is between about 1 mg/kg to about 15 mg/kg of the
subject's body weight. In some embodiments, the dosage administered is between about 1
mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg of the subject's body weight. In some embodiments, the dosage
administered is between about 0.1 to 4 mg/kg, even more preferably 0.1 to 3.2 mg/kg, or even
more preferably 0.1 to 2.7 mg/kg of the subject's body weight over a treatment cycle.
[0271]     The Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates e.g., Ligand-Drug Conjugates) can be
administered by any convenient route, for example by infusion or bolus injection, by absorption
through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings (e.g., oral mucosa, rectal and intestinal mucosa).
Administration can be systemic or local. Various delivery systems are known, e.g.,
encapsulation in liposomes, microparticles, microcapsules, capsules, and can be used to
administer a compound. In certain embodiments, more than one compounds or composition is
administered to a patient.
[0272]     The term "carrier" refers to a diluent, adjuvant or excipient, with which a compound is
administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be liquids, such as water and oils, including
those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, such as peanut oil, soybean oil, mineral
oil, sesame oil. The carriers can be saline, gum acacia, gelatin, starch paste, talc, keratin,
colloidal silica, urea,. In addition, auxiliary, stabilizing, thickening, lubricating and coloring
agents can be used. In one embodiment, when administered to a patient, the compound or
compositions and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sterile. Water is an exemplary carrier
when the compounds are administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and
glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers, particularly for injectable solutions.
Suitable pharmaceutical carriers also include excipients such as starch, glucose, lactose, sucrose,
gelatin, malt, rice, flour, chalk, silica gel, sodium stearate, glycerol monostearate, talc, sodium
chloride, dried skim milk, glycerol, propylene, glycol, water, ethanol. The present compositions,
if desired, can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents, or pH buffering
agents.
                                                    96

[0273]    In an embodiment, the conjugates are formulated in accordance with routine procedures
as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous administration to animals, particularly
human beings. Typically, the carriers or vehicles for intravenous administration are sterile
isotonic aqueous buffer solutions. Where necessary, the compositions can also include a
solubilizing agent. Compositions for intravenous administration can optionally comprise a local
anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally, the ingredients
are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form, for example, as a dry
lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an
ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where a conjugate is to be
administered by infusion, it can be dispensed, for example, with an infusion bottle containing
sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the conjugate is administered by injection,
an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be
mixed prior to administration.
[0274]    The pharmaceutical compositions are generally formulated as sterile, substantially
isotonic and in full compliance with all Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations of the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
[0275]    Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise the Ligand Drug
Conjugates of the present invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some preferred
embodiments, all, or substantially all, or more than 50% of the Ligand Drug Conjugates present
in the pharmaceutical composition comprises a hydrolyzed thio-substituted succinimide. In
some preferred embodiments, more than 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97 %, 98%, or 99% of the Ligand Drug Conjugates present in the
pharmaceutical composition comprises a hydrolyzed thio-substituted succinimide.
          Methods for preparing Ligand-Drug Conjugates
[0276]    In another aspect, the present invention provides methods of preparing Ligand-Drug
Conjugates or Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates comprising a Self-Stabilizing Linker.
[0277]    In some embodiments, methods of the present invention comprise the steps of
providing a Drug-Linker or Linker unit as described herein, conjugating said Drug-Linker or
                                                  97

Linker unit to a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand unit to form a conjugate, allowing the resultant
conjugate to undergo a hydrolysis reaction to form a Ligand-Drug conjugate comprising a thio
substituted hydrolyzed succinimide.
[0278] The rate of the thio-substitued succinimide hydrolysis can be manipulated by adjusting
the reaction conditions following conjugation of the Drug-Linker to the Ligand, e.g., by
adjusting the pH or temperature. In some embodiments of the present invention, all,
substantially all, or at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90% or even 95% of the thio
substituted succinimide is hydrolyzed without manipulation of the reaction conditions, i.e., the
hydrolysis reaction occurs under the same reaction conditions as the conjugation reaction. In
some embodiments, all, substantially all, or at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90% or even
95% of the thio-substituted succinimide is hydrolyzed from 20 minutes, to 4 hours following
conjugation, preferably from 20 minutes to 2 hours following conjugation. In exemplary
embodiments, the conjugation conditions are pH of about 7.4 and a temperature of about 220 C.
[0279]     In some embodiments, methods for preparing a Ligand-Drug Conjugate comprises the
steps of providing a Drug-Linker or Linker unit comprising a Self-Stabilizing Linker;
conjugating said Drug-Linker or Linker unit to a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand to form a Ligand
Drug Conjugate conjugate comprising a non-hydrolyzed thio-substituted succinimide; allowing
the non-hydrolyzed thio-substituted succinimide to undergo a hydrolysis reaction, wherein all,
substantially all, or at least 50%, 60%, 7 0%, 80% or even 85% of the succinimide is hydrolyzed
from 10 minutes to 4 hours following conjugation. In some embodiments, all, substantially all,
or at least 50%, 60%, 7 0%, 80%, 85%, 90% or even 95 % of the succinimide is hydrolyzed by
 10 minutes, by 20 minutes, 40 minutes 60 minutes, 90 minutes or 120 minutes following
conjugation. In some embodiments, the hydrolysis reaction occurs under the same reaction
conditions as the conjugation reaction. In exemplary embodiments, the conjugation conditions
are pH of about 7.4 and a temperature of about 22' C.
           Methods for Synthesizing Self-Stabilizing Linkers
[0280]     The present invention provides, inter alia, Self-Stabilizing Linkers. Methods of
preparing Self-Stabilizing Linker units are encompassed within the scope of the present
invention.
                                                 98

[0281]     Maleimide compounds are typically prepared from corresponding amines by reaction of
the primary amine with maleic anhydride followed by cyclodehydration of the maleamic acid.
The overall scheme for the preparation of maleimde compounds is shown in the scheme below.
      O                                                                       0
                                           OH   0        R
        o  +    NH 2 -R          :    O                NH      -                N-R
      O                                                                       0
[0282]     For preparation of maleimides containing basic groups in the side chain of the starting
amine, such basic groups should be protected, if necessary. The appropriate protecting groups
should be stable under conditions of maleimide preparation, yet should be removable later in the
presence of maleimide. Suitable protecting groups consist, but are not limited to, acid labile
protecting groups. "Boc" protecting group is one of the preferred protecting group.
[0283]     The first step of maleimide preparation, the formation of the maleamic acid is very
facile and can be usually accomplished in good yield by slow addition of the amine to a
suspension containing a stoichiometric excess of the maleic anhydride.
[0284]     The second step, cyclodehydration of the maleamic acid, can be accomplished in a
number of ways known to skilled in the art. For example, the use of chemical dehydrating agents
has been a well established method for accomplishing this step. Carbodiimides in combination
with isomerizing alcohols, for example: DCC/HOBt, have been used to effect cyclodehydration
of amic acids to maleimides.
[0285]     Thermal cyclodehydration with use of azeotropic distillation in the presence of acid
catalyst is another well known method to generate maleimides. The use of an azeotropic solvent
permits the efficient removal of the water co-product as it forms, thereby driving reaction to
maleimide. Suitable azeotropic solvents include cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, ethylbensene,
mesitylene, and the like. Toluene is considered to be the most desirable since it boils at 110 'C at
atmospheric pressure. Boiling temperatures below 200 'C are preferable to minimize possible
thermal isomerization of maleamic acid to the more thermodynamically stable trans (fumaramic
acid) structure.
                                                  99

[0286]    The use of polar aprotic co-solvents can be beneficial for overall yield improvement as
well as reducing time of cyclodehydration. Several polar aprotic solvents including
dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, acetonitrile, N-methylpyrrolidone, dimethylsulfoxide,
and sulfonate have been claimed to be useful. The most useful polar aprotic solvent is
dimethylformamide.
[0287]    Incorporation of certain amine salts instead of aprotic solvents can be further beneficial
for maleimide formation according to Patent US 5,973,166.
[0288]    One step microwave assisted maleimide synthesis has been also reported starting from
maleic anhydride and an appropriate amine using no solvent (H. N. Borah, et al., J. Chem.
Research (S), 1998, 272-272).
[0289]    Example using water as a solvent for maleimide formation has been reported in
ARKIVOC, 2001 (v) 60-67 by V. Ondrus, et al.
[0290]    Alternatively, maleimide compounds can be generated from maleimide and appropriate
alcohol using, for example, Mitsunobu reaction conditions as shown in the scheme below (M.A.
Walker, Tetrahedron Letters, 1994, v. 35, n 5, pp. 665-668).
       0                                                      0
                                   Ph 3P, DIAD
         NH  + HO-        R        THF, 24h                      N-R
       0                                                       0
[0291]    The self-stabilizing linker assembly of the present invention are linked to the Stretcher
unit, Cleavable unit, Spacer unit, or Drug unit using the teachings described herein in
combination with methods known in the art. The Linkers and Drug-Linkers are conjugated to
Ligand units using teachings described herein in combination with methods known in the art.
For example, for conjugation to interchain disulfides, an antibody can be treated with a reducing
agent, such as dithiothreitol (DTT) to reduce some or all of the interchain disulfide cysteine
residues to form highly nucleophilic cysteine thiol groups. The full reduced antibody or partially
                                                 100

reduced antibody can be subsequently conjugated to the maleimide of the Linker Unit. In
exemplary embodiments, conjugation conditions are gentle ones, pH of about 7 and a
temperature of about 22 'C.
           Intermediates
[0292]     The present invention provides intermediates for use in making Self-Stabilizing
Linkers. Intermediates include the following wherein T, c, R" and R12 are as previously
described.
             0
                (T)               OH              N                     O
                   T)                                                   OH
       O
                   NR11                      0
                                                           NR11
                   R 12                                    R12,              and
             0
     /      Na
                                  OH
       0
                      NH2
        Mono-thio-substituted or Di-thio-substituted Maleimide or Succinimide Self
         Stabilizing Linkers
[0293]     In addition to designing self-stabilizing linkers for increasing the hydrolysis rates of
mono thio-substituted succinimides, self-stabilizing linkers can also be used to increase the
                                                   101

hydrolysis rate of mono-thio-substituted maleimides, di-thio-substituted maleimides, or di-thio
substituted succinimides.
[0294]     In view of the above, the present invention provides in one group of embodiments, a
Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate comprising a Ligand unit and at least one Functional Agent
selected from a Drug unit, a Detection unit, or a Stability unit, wherein the Ligand unit and each
of the Functional Agent(s) are joined by a self-stabilizing linker assembly comprising a
succinimide ring, a maleimide ring, a hydrolyzed succinimide ring or a hydrolyzed maleimide
ring wherein the succinimide ring, maleimide ring, hydrolyzed succinimide ring or hydrolyzed
maleimide ring is directly conjugated to the Ligand unit via one or two thioether linkages; and a
base and an electron withdrawing group operably linked to stabilize the conjugate in plasma
relative to a Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate lacking the self-stabilizing linker assembly (i.e.
by increasing the rate of succinimide or maleimide ring hydrolysis). In some aspects, the
electron withdrawing group is positioned to increase the electrophilicity of the succinimide or
maleimide rendering it more reactive with water and the base is positioned to assist the
hydrolysis of the succinimide or maleimide ring (e.g., by an intramolecular base catalysis
mechanism).
[0295]     In some embodiments, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugates are represented by
Formula IV or IVa:
                                 BU
               LL
                L   M2 -(HE)r              (HE)q-A       A'a.--W-Yy-D')
                                    (HE)m
                                                                                 P (IV)
                                                 102

                                             BU
                           LL
                            L    M2 -(HE)r             (HE)q-   LO-D'
                                                (HE)m
                                                                           "(IVa)
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof);
wherein
L is a Ligand unit
LL is a Ligand unit that can be present or absent, wherein L and LL can be the same or different
Ligand units;
D' is a Drug unit, a Detection unit, or a Stability unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly;
M2 is a maleimide ring, a hydrolyzed maleimide, a succinimide ring, or a hydrolyzed
succinimide conjugated to at least one of L or LL via a thioether linkage; and
        BU is a Basic unit;
        HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
         The circle represents a scaffold that can be C1 .8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6 .10
         arylene, or C 4 .1 0 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to Lo, A, W, Y or D';
        the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
        that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C6o arylene or C 4 .io heteroarylene;
        the subscript p ranges from 1 to 20;
           -W- is an optional Cleavable unit,
           the subscript w' is 0 or 1;
           -Y- is an optional Spacer unit,
           the subscript y' is 0 or 1,
           -A- is an optional Stretcher unit,
                                                     103

           -A'- is an optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A;
            a' is 0 or 1; and
            u is from 1 to 20, with the proviso that when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u
is 1, A can be present or absent.
[0296]     L, HE and BU, Lo, A, W, and Y have the meanings provided for the Ligand-Drug
Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle, L,
HE, BU, Lo, A, W, and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates. L and LL can be different
Ligand units or the same Ligand unit. In embodiments, wherein L and LL are the same Ligand
unit, the succinimide or maleimide can be conjugated to the Ligand unit on the same or different
polypeptide chains of the Ligand unit.
[0297]     In some aspects, when r is 1, HE does not comprise a carbonyl group,(i.e., C(=0))
[0298]     In some aspects, m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2
[0299]     In some aspects, r is zero.
[0300]     In some aspects, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV
or IVa or a salt thereof wherein r and m are zero and q is one.
[0301]     In some aspects, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV
or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1.8 alkylene or C 1.8
heteroalkylene (preferably C 1-4 alkylene or C 1-4 heteroalkylene), r is zero, and the sum of m+q is
1. In some such aspects, the scaffold is C 1.3 alkylene or C 1 .3 heteroalkylene. In some such
aspects, the alkylene is straight chain or branched.
[0302]     In some aspects, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV
or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1.8 alkylene or C 1.8
heteroalkylene (preferably C 1-4 alkylene or C 1-4 heteroalkylene), and m and r are zero. In some
such aspects, the scaffold is C1 .3 alkylene or C1 .3 heteroalkylene. In some such aspects, the
alkylene is straight chain or branched.
[0303]     In some aspects, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV
or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1, C2 , C3 or C 4 straight or
branched chain alkylene, r is zero, and the sum of m+q is 1.
                                                   104

[0304]     In some aspects, the Ligand-Functional Agent Conjugate is represented by Formula IV
or IVa or a salt thereof wherein the circle represents a scaffold that is C 1, C2 , C3 or C 4 straight or
branched chain alkylene, and m and r are zero.
                                                          BU
[0305]     In some aspects, m and r are zero and    -               (HE)-       is represented by:
       0   BBU                                                                BU         0
 --     CH-C-         -   ,--CH-CH2--C-                    , or
[0306]     In some aspects, there are no less than 2 and no more than 6 intervening atoms between
the base of the Basic unit and the nitrogen atom of the maleimide or succinimide (hydrolyzed or
non-hydrolyzed) and there are no more than 5 atoms, no more than 4 atoms, no more than 3
atoms, or no more than 2 intervening atoms between the electron withdrawing group and the
nitrogen atom of the maleimide or succinimide (hydrolyzed or non-hydrolyzed).
[0307]     In some aspects, M2 is a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide and LL is present.
In some aspects, M2 is a succinimide ring or hydrolyzed succinimide and LL is absent. In some
aspects, M2 is a maleimide ring or hydrolyzed maleimide and LL is present. In some aspects, M2
is a maleimide ring or hydrolyzed maleimide and LL is absent. In some aspects, when M 2 is a
maleimide ring or hydrolyzed maleimide, LL is present or absent and when M2 is a succinimide
ring or hydrolyzed succinimide LL is present. In each of these embodiments when L and LL are
present, L and LL can be the same Ligand unit or different Ligand units. In some aspects
wherein L and LL are present and are the same Ligand unit, the maleimide or succinimide can be
conjugated to the Ligand unit on the same or different polypeptide chains of the Ligand unit.
[0308]     In each of these embodiments, the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain can be straight or
branched. In some aspects, the alkylene or heteroalkylene chain will be a straight chain. In other
aspects, it will be branched.
[0309]     In each of these embodiments, p can range from I to 20, preferably I to 12, even more
 Ito 10 or ito 8.
                                                  105

[0310]     In some aspects wherein the scaffold itself is directly linked to the optional secondary
linker assembly or D', (for example, in select embodiments when q is zero or when q is zero and
r is zero), the scaffold will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to the optional
secondary linker assembly or D'
[0311]     In some aspects wherein the scaffold itself is directly linked to the optional secondary
linker assembly or D', (for example, in select embodiments when q is zero or when q is zero and
r is zero), the scaffold will comprise a reactive site suitable for attachment to A or D'.
[0312]     The maleimide ring can be conjugated to the Ligand unit via one or two thioether
linkages as illustrated below both in non-hydrolyzed and hydrolyzed form and the succinimide
ring can be conjugated to the Ligand unit via two thioether linkages as illustrated below in both
non-hydrolyzed and hydrolyzed form wherein the wavy line indicates the point of attachment to
the remainder of the linker conjugate or linker-functional agent conjugate:
              0
                                                  0
                                      L
                         N-
 L
                                     LL
              0
                                                  0
                      00
    L                                      L
         HO
                                                    OH
                                                  106

         0                          O
                    NH-                      NH
 L                          L
    LL                        LL
 O         O0
          OH                         OH
        0
                           NHI-N
                                                         H
                                         L                  5
 L               0
       HO                               O
                                                 OH
               0
  L
                  N-+
 LL
               0
[0313]     In embodiments wherein the maleimide ring, hydrolyzed maleimide, succinimide ring,
or hydrolyzed succinimide is conjugated to the Ligand via two thioether linkages, p typically
ranges from 1 to 10, or 1 to 8, or 1 to 4 and the maleimide or succinimide can be conjugated to
the same or different polypeptide chains of the Ligand.    In some aspects, the Ligand is an
antibody. In other aspects, the Ligand is a non-antibody protein.
[0314]     Functional Agent-Linker Conjugates having either branched or non-branched linkers
can be represented by the following formulas:
                                                  107

                             0
                                           BU
                z
                               N-(HE)r               (HE)q-AAa,-WV-               Yy-D')
                                              (HE)m
                            0
                                        0
                                                     BU
                           z
                                          N-(HE)r               (HE)q-LO-D'
                                                         (HE)m
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof);
wherein
D' is a Drug unit, a Detection unit, or a Stability unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly;
Q and Z    are hydrogen or halogen wherein at least one of     Q and Z  are halogen;
        BU is a Basic unit;
        HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
        the circle represents a scaffold that can be C1 .8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6.10
         arylene, or C 4 .io heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to Lo, A, W, Y or D';
        the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
        that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C6o arylene or C 4 .io heteroarylene;
            W- is an optional Cleavable unit,
            the subscript w' is 0 or 1;
                                                    108

          -Y- is an optional Spacer unit,
          the subscript y' is 0 or 1,
          A is an optional Stretcher unit,
          A' is an optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A;
           a' is 0 or 1; and
           u is from 1 to 20, with the proviso that when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u
is 1, A can be present or absent
[0315]    In some aspects, the halogen is bromine.
[0316]    HE and BU, Lo, A, W, and Y have the meanings provided for the Drug-Linker
Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle,
HE, BU, Lo, A, W, and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates.
                                                         BU
[0317]    In some aspects, m and r are zero and     -              (HE)-     is represented by:
       BU       0BU                                                         BU       0
                       -   , -  -CH-CH2-        -A-       , orH2-CH                  C
 -   -CH-C-
[0318]    Ligand-Linker Conjugates having either branched or non-branched linkers can be
represented by the following formulas:
                                                  109

                                       U
                LL
                   L    M2 -(HE)r              (HE)q-A(Aa,-          W-Yy.-RG)
                                        (HE)m
                                                                                       p
                                                U
                             LL
                              L   M2 -(HE)r               (HE)q-LO-RG
                                                  (HE)m
                                                                             p
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof);
wherein
L is a Ligand unit;
LL is a Ligand unit that can be present or absent,wherein L and LL can be the same or different
Ligand units;
RG is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at the terminus of Lo or
         --   A-     AA   - WV     Yy'      which is suitable for attaching a Drug unit, Detection unit
         or Stability unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly that is present;
M2 is a maleimide ring, a hydrolyzed maleimide, a succinimide ring, or a hydrolyzed
succinimide conjugated to at least one of L or LL via a thioether linkage; and
        BU is a Basic unit;
        HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
                                                   110

        the circle represents a scaffold that can be C 1.8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6 .10
        arylene, or C 4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
        attachment to Lo, A, W, Y or FA;
        the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
        that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C 6 .10 arylene or C 4 .1 o heteroarylene;
        the subscript p ranges from 1 to 20.
          W- is an optional Cleavable unit,
          the subscript w' is 0 or 1;
          -Y- is an optional Spacer unit,
          the subscript y' is 0 or 1,
          A is an optional Stretcher unit,
          A' is an optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A;
           a' is 0 or 1; and
           u is from 1 to 20, with the proviso that when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u
is 1, A can be present or absent.
[0319]    L, HE and BU, Lo, A, W, and Y have the meanings provided for the Ligand-Drug
Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle, L,
HE, BU, Lo, A, W, and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates.
                                                                BU
[0320]    In some aspects , r and m are zero and          -                            is represented by:
       BU       0BU                                                                 BU        0
                             -, -,                               or             CH2-CH        C-
[0321]    Branched or non-branched Linkers can be represented by the following formulas:
                                                     111

                                  0
                         Z                        BU
                             I      N-(HE)r                                        Rc
                        Q                      (HE)m
                                  0
                                          0
                                 Z                          BU
                                     I      N-(HE)r             (HE)q-LO-RG
                                Q                         (HE)m
                                         0
or a salt thereof (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof);
wherein
RG is a reactive group (comprising a reactive site) at the terminus of Lo or
              Which                                is suitable for attaching a Drug unit, Detection unit
         or Stability unit;
Lo is an optional secondary linker assembly that is present;
Q and Z are hydrogen      or halogen wherein at least one of Q and Z are halogen;
        BU is a Basic unit;
        HE is a hydrolysis enhancer comprising an electron withdrawing group;
        the circle represents a scaffold that can be C1 .8 alkylene, C1.8 heteroalkylene, C6 .10
         arylene, or C4 .10 heteroarylene, and optionally comprises a reactive site suitable for
         attachment to Lo, A, W, Y or RG;
        the subscripts m, q and r are each 0 or 1, and the sum of m + q + r is 0, 1 or 2 provided
        that if m + q + r is 0, the scaffold is a C 6 o10 arylene or C 4 .io heteroarylene;
           W- is an optional Cleavable unit,
           the subscript w' is 0 or 1;
           -Y- is an optional Spacer unit,
                                                     112

          the subscript y' is 0 or 1,
          A is an optional Stretcher unit,
          A' is an optional Stretcher unit component at the terminus of A;
           a' is 0 or 1; and
           u is from 1 to 20, with the proviso that when u is from 2 to 20, A is present and when u
is 1, A can be present or absent.
[0322]    HE and BU, Lo, A, W, and Y have the meanings provided for the Ligand-Drug
Conjugates. Additionally each of the specifically recited selected embodiments for the circle,
HE, BU, Lo, A, W, and Y are equally applicable to these Conjugates.
                                                          BU
[0323]    In some aspects , r and m are zero and      -             (HE)-     is represented by:
       BU       0BU                                                         BU       0
 --    CH-C-           -     -  -CH-CH2--C-               , or
[0324]    Methods of preparing mono- or di-thio-substituted halomaleimides as well as di
thiosubstituted succinimides are known in the art as are methods of conjugating them to ligands,
see for example, Ryan et al., Chem. Commun., 2011, 47, 5452-5454 and Smith et al., J Am.
Chem. Soc. 2010, 132(6), 1960-1965.
EXAMPLES
Example 1 - Synthesis of representative Self-Stabilizing Components
Maleyl-Lysine(boc)OH
                                                  113

                            O       OO                    Boc' NOH
         H                              AcOH                              0      NH
    Boc' N                    OH___                                     0        N
                         NH 2                                    HO
 Chemical Formula: C11 H22 N2 0 4                       Chemical Formula: C 15 H24 N2 0 7
     Molecular Weight: 246.30                               Molecular Weight: 344.36
[0325]    In a 50 ml round bottom flask H-Lys(boc)-OH (246mg, 1 mmol) and maleic anhydride
(98 mg, 1 mmol) were dissolved in 1 ml (4 vol.) acetic acid and the solution was stirred at room
temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated to an oil on the rotovap, and the
product was precipitated by adding ~ 10 ml dichloromethane . The precipitate was collected by
vacuum filtration, washed with dichloromethane, and dried overnight in the vacuum oven. 270
mg of product was recovered as a white powder (85% yield)
Maleoyl-Lysine(boc)-OH
        H               0TEA,0
   BocN                   OH         Toluene             H                0
                0    NH              reflux          Boc'N                  OH
         HO                                                      O          O
 Chemical Formula: C15H24 N20
                              7                     Chemical Formula: C15 H22 N20
    Molecular Weight: 344.36                                                      6
                                                      Molecular Weight: 326.34
[0326]    Maleyl-Lys(boc)-OH (100 mg, 0.29 mmol) was suspended in Toluene (3 ml) and
triethylamine (224 uL) over molecular sieves in a 50 ml round bottom flask equipped with a
condenser. DMA (~150 uL) was added to aid solubility. The solution was heated to 125 'C and
refluxed for 4 hours after which the reaction was shown to be complete by LCMS. The reaction
mixture was concentrated to dryness on the rotovap, redissolved in DMSO and purified by
preparative HPLC. 56 mg of product was isolated as a white powder. (60% yield)
                                                114

Maleyl-DPR(boc)OH
                                00                                         Boo
                                           0           HO      0           NH
                                                                   0
                       O            AcOH    V                                 OH
       BoN                OH                                          H
                    NH 2
 Chemical Formula: C8 H16N20 4                      Chemical Formula: C12 H1 8 N2 0 7
    Molecular Weight: 204.22                           Molecular Weight: 302.28
[0327]        Maleyl-DPR(boc)-OH was prepared in the same manner as Maleyl-Lysine(boc)OH.
(503 mg, 67%)
Maleoyl-DPR(boc)-OH
                       Boc                                             Boc
    HO     0           NH               TEA,                           NH
              0                         Toluene            0
          N      N         OH           reflux                  N        OH
                 H     O                                               O
                                  0                                0
 Chemical Formula: C12 H18N20 7                        Chemical Formula: C12 H16 N20 6
    Molecular Weight: 302.28                              Molecular Weight: 284.27
[0328]        Maleoyl-DPR(boc)-OH was prepared in the same manner as Maleoyl-Lys(boc). (340
mg, 71%)
Maleyl-Dimethyllysine
                               00
                          O      AcOH            .N                   OH
      N                   OH            IN                      N
                    NH2
 Chemical Formula: C8 H18N20 2                   H    o
   Molecular Weight: 174.24                   Chemical Formula: C12H20N205
                                                Molecular Weight: 272.30
[0329]        Maleyl-dimethyllysine was prepared in the same manner as Maleyl-lys(boc)-OH with
the exception that the product did not precipitate after addition of dichloromethane. Instead the
oil was co-evapaorated with 1:1 dichloromethane/ hexane until a white foam was obtained and
dried under high vacuum overnight. (109 mg, 99%)
                                                                     115

Maleoyl-dimethyllysine
                      O       ACOH                         0
                              reflux      N
                                OH                            OH
            00-O NHN                                  N       O
      HO
 Chemical Formula: C12H20N205        Chemical Formula: C12H1 N204
   Molecular Weight: 272.30             Molecular Weight: 254.28
[03301        In a 10 ml round bottom flask ,Maleyl-dimethyllysine (100 mg) was dissolved in acetic
acid (1 ml) and refluxed for 4 hours. After 4 hours the reaction mixture was concentrated to
dryness on the rotovap and dried to a white foam under high vacuum. NMR of crude material
shows ~80% conversion based on ratio of the singlet at 6.9 ppm and the olefinic protons from the
starting material.
Example 2 - Synthesis of mDPR-Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
[0331]         mDPR-Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE was prepared by coupling Boc-protected mDPR to Val
Cit-PAB-MMAE using standard methods for peptide coupling. The Boc group was removed in
the final step.
Scheme:
                                                           116

                                                    OH                Fmoc-Val-Cit-PAB-OCO-pNP
         HiI                                   H                1)    HOBt
  NKN                                          N                      DMF, DIPEA
                                                                 2)   DMF, dimethylamine 1:1
                                                      0                                   OH
                                          II     HI                                  H
              H   0                OIkN           N     N N            N             Ny     _
               N "A ZI   N         O   N~                           0        0  0
  H2N
                    H
                                              Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
              O-    NH
                 O     NH2
          Boc            Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
          NH             HATU, DIPEA, DMF
        ONOH                               in
          0           2) 10% TFA/ DCM
                                           0  N0OH
              01i                                     H   II                            H
                          S       2N                                       N
 0'   -j         0            "O                                   0-             1
            NNH
             N2N            NH                 mDPR-VaI-Cit-PAB-MMAE
                            0)NH2
Preparationof Fmoc-Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
[0332]     MMAE (5.34g, 6.94 mmol), Fmoc-Val-Cit-PAB-OCO-pNP (5.0g, 6.94 mmol) and
HOBt (1.4 mmol) were charged to a 250 ml round bottom flask purged with N2 and dissolved in
15 ml of DMA. DIPEA (2.44 ml, 14 mmol) was then added, and the solution was stirred
overnight at room temperature under inert atmosphere. The product was isolated by preparative
HPLC, using a linear gradiant from 30% MeCN (0.05%TFA) to 100% MeCN (0.05% TFA) over
40 min. Fractions containing product were concentrated on the rotovap to a white powder,
affording 3.2 g (34%)
                                                             117

Preparationof Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
[0333]     A solution of 3.2 g of Fmoc-Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE in 7 ml DMF and 7 ml diethylamine
was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to a
thick oil on the rotovap. The product was precipitated in diethyl ether (100 ml) and filtered
affording 2.0 g of product as an off white powder which was used without further purification.
Preparationof mDPR (boc) Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
[0334]     In a 50 ml round bottom flask mDPR(boc)-OH (25 mg, 0.089 mmol), Val-Cit-PAB
MMAE (100 mg, 0.089 mmol), and HATU (41 mg, 0.107 mmol) were dissolved in 2 ml DMF.
DIPEA (34 uL) was added and the solution was stirred for 1 hr at rt. The reaction mixture was
diluted with 1 ml DMSO and the product was isolated by preparative HPLC. (70 mg, 56%)
Preparationof mDPR -Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE
[0335]     The above material was dissolved in 2 ml 10% TFA/dichloromethane and stirred for 1
h at rt. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness, reconstituted in 1 ml DMSO, and
purified by preparative HPLC. (56 mg, 86%)
Example 3 - Monitoring thiosuccinimide hydrolysis
[0336]     Thiosuccinimide hydrolysis of a self-stabilizing bioconjugate can be monitored by
electrospray mass spectrometry, since the addition of water to the conjugate results in an increase
of 18 Daltons to the observable molecular weight of the conjugate. When a conjugate is
prepared by fully reducing the interchain disulfides of a human IgG 1 antibody and conjugating
the maleimide to the resulting cysteines, each light chain of the antibody will contain a single
maleimide modification and each heavy chain will contain three maleimide modifications (see
Figure 1, top). Upon complete hydrolysis of the resulting thiosuccinimides, the mass of the light
chain will therefore increase by 18 Daltons, while the mass of the heavy chain will increase by
54 Daltons. This is illustrated in Figure 1 (bottom), with the conjugation and subsequent
hydrolysis of a self-stabilizing maleimide drug-linker of the present invention (mDPR-Val-Cit
                                                 118

PAB-MMAE, molecular weight 1289 Da) to the fully reduced anti-CD30 antibody cAC10. The
presence of the single N-linked glycosylation site on the heavy chain results in the heterogeneity
of masses observed in the unconjugated antibody.
Example 4 - Monitoring t1/2 hydrolysis
[0337]     By monitoring the intensities of the non-hydrolyzed and hydrolyzed peaks in the mass
spectrum of a self-stabilizing bioconjugate over time (mDPR-Val-Cit-PAB-MMAE), the
hydrolysis kinetics can be evaluated. This is done by plotting the percent of the total population
which has hydrolyzed at each timepoint versus time (Figure 2, top). These data are then fit to the
exponential equation
                                       Y = Ymax X (1 - e
where Y is the observed percent hydrolysis at time t, Ymax is the asymptotic maximal %
hydrolysis, and K is the hydrolysis rate constant. The half-life for the hydrolysis reaction is
defined as
                                            t    =   n(2) /K
[0338]     When this procedure is performed on the light chain of a reduced hIgGI antibody, the
analysis is quite straightforward as there is only one conjugation site per light chain and the
reaction is a simple progression from the unhydrolyzed species to the hydrolyzed species with a
mass change of 18 Daltons. Performing this analysis on the heavy chain is complicated by the
fact that there are a total of three conjugation sites, resulting in a series of peaks of +18, +36, and
+54 Daltons as the conjugate undergoes hydrolysis. The analysis of the heavy chain is further
complicated by the presence of multiple glycoforms. The analysis presented in Figure 2 was
performed by only evaluating the peaks arising from the most abundant glycoform (the transition
from 54195 Da to 54250 Da) and assuming that these peaks are a reasonable surrogate for the
whole population of heavy chain glycoforms. As is evident in Figure 2, the observed kinetic
                                                   119

profiles for light and heavy chains are very similar. For this reason, and because of the added
complexities of quantifying hydrolysis rates on the heavy chain noted above, most of the data to
characterize hydrolysis rates of self-stabilizing maleimides conjugated to antibodies was
determined from evaluation of the light chain hydrolysis.
[0339]     One limitation of this methodology is that the electrospray ionization process tends to
produce a small proportion of sodium adducts in the observed peaks (approximately 10% under
the conditions used to generate the data in Figure 2), which have an observed mass 22 Daltons
greater than the parent mass. Many mass spectrometers do not have sufficiently high resolution
to resolve this +22 mass from the + 18 mass that results from hydrolysis on a protein with a total
molecular mass in excess of 25,000 Daltons. Consequently, at the early timepoints when the
degree of hydrolysis is low, the appearance of a peak at approximately +20 Daltons is a
combination of these two effects which cannot be easily separated experimentally. As a result,
the estimate of the percent of hydrolyzed product at the earliest timepoints is probably an
overestimate, but the magnitude of this effect diminishes as the reaction proceeds toward
completion
Example 5 - Evaluating spacing between the maleimide and basic group of the self-stabilizing
linker assembly
[0340]     It was hypothesized that the presence of a basic amino group adjacent to maleimide
would accelerate the hydrolysis of thiosuccinimides prepared with those maleimides and thus
result in stable bioconjugates. The distance between the maleimide and the basic amino group
was recognized as an important parameter in the design of such self-stabilizing units. To
evaluate the role of this spacing, a series of maleimides were prepared with the general structure
                         0             H                 O
                                                  N,     0H
                                           CH 2 )
                                   H2 N
                                                   120

where x varied from 1 to 4. These maleimides were then conjugated to a fully reduced human
IgG1 at pH8 and 37 'C and immediately monitored by electrospray mass spectrometry to
determine the rate of hydrolysis. The distance between the basic group and the maleimide is
inversely proportional to the hydrolysis rate--that is, the greater the distance, the slower the
hydrolysis. This result illustrates that positioning a basic amino group close to a maleimide
results in an increase in the rate of succinimide ring hydrolysis of bioconjugates prepared with
the maleimide. However, even with the shortest spacing tested here (x=1), an antibody
conjugate would have to be held at pH 8 and 37 'C for approximately 5 hours to achieve
complete hydrolysis (about 5 half-lives). Exposure of an antibody or other protein to such
conditions for extended periods can potentially result in covalent modifications and misfolding
events, and so maleimides with even faster hydrolysis rates were sought.
[0341]     To prepare bioconjugates with faster hydrolysis rates, a series of maleimides were
prepared with the general structure
                                     H2 N
                                         ( CH2 )
                                              0  H
where x   = 1 to 4 and R =  val-cit-PAB-MMAE. These maleimides were then conjugated to a
fully reduced human IgG1 at pH8 and 37 'C and immediately monitored by electrospray mass
spectrometry to determine the rate of hydrolysis. As shown in Figure 4 (top), the distance
between the basic group and the maleimide within this series of structurally related compounds
exerts a profound influence on the progress of the hydrolysis reaction. As in the prior example,
the shorter the distance between the maleimide and the basic amine, the faster the hydrolysis.
Since basic conditions (i.e. high pH) are known to increase the rate of maleimide and
succinimide ring hydrolysis, this effect is presumably an example of intramolecular catalysis by
a general base mechanism. Within this series the compounds with x=2 and x=3 did not attain
complete hydrolysis during the 3 hour incubation, instead reaching an asymptote at
approximately 80% and 50%, respectively (plots are normalized to the maximally achieved
                                                  121

hydrolysis). This phenomenon may arise from a competing reaction such as direct nucleophilic
attack of the primary amine on the succinimide ring, or may be due to an isomeric impurity in
the maleimide which leads to biphasic hydrolysis kinetics.
Example 6 - Hydrolysis kinetics
[0342]    The previous examples illustrate the influence that a basic group can have over the rate
of succinimide ring hydrolysis in a bioconjugate, depending on the distance between the basic
group and the maleimide of the parent molecule. However, it is expected that the presence of
electron-withdrawing or -donating groups will also influence the rate of ring hydrolysis, since
these groups will influence the electron density (and therefore electrophilicity) at the carbonyl
carbons of the ring. In the conjugates of example 5, a carboxamide group is present in the alpha
position relative to the nitrogen of the ring (i.e. a single carbon atom is present between the
nitrogen of the ring and the carbonyl carbon of the carboxamide). Because the carboxamide is a
weak electron withdrawing group, its presence is likely to influence the observed hydrolysis
rates. To better understand the relative contributions of the basic amino group and the electron
withdrawing carboxamide group on the observed hydrolysis rates, a series of maleimides were
conjugated to a reduced human IgGI antibody at pH 7.4, 22 'C, and the hydrolysis rates
determined by mass spectrometry (Figure 5). These maleimides contained just the carboxamide
in the alpha position (triangles), just the primary amine in the beta position (inverted triangles),
or both the carboxamide and the primary amine (circles). A control maleimide which contained
neither group in proximity to the maleimide was also evaluated, although its hydrolysis is so
slow that no reaction was observed under these conditions and no data is plotted. Under these
conditions the self-stabilizing maleimide which contains both the base and the electron
withdrawing group produced a bioconjugate with a hydrolysis                   t 1 /2 of just 12 minutes, while the
maleimide containing only the amine yielded a              t 1 /2 of 2.5 hours, and the maleimide containing
only the carboxamide yielded a     ti1/ 2 of 24 hours. This result indicates that the basic group and the
electron withdrawing group act in concert to yield a conjugate with the very rapid hydrolysis
kinetics which are most convenient for the manufacture of bioconjugates under the desirable
mild conditions. Conjugates prepared with the diaminopropionyl maleimide (circles) exhibit
ideal hydrolysis characteristics, with a      t1 / 2 of less than 15 minutes under very gentle conditions
and the reaction approaching 100% completion in about 2 hours.
                                                          122

Example 7 - Evaluating spacing between the maleimide and carboxamide group of the self
stabilizing linker assembly
[0343]     The rapid and complete succinimide hydrolysis observed in conjugates prepared with
self-stabilizing diaminopropionyl maleimido drug-linkers acid (DPR) shown in examples 5 and
6 above indicates the importance of both the basic group and the electron withdrawing group to
the design. A second, isomeric maleimido drug-linker was prepared with diaminopropionic acid
to further evaluate the role of these two components on the hydrolysis behavior of the resulting
conjugates. The structures are termed a-maleimido DPR and P-maleimido DPR and are shown
below.
                   H2N
                0         H                          0           0
                tN        NN                                          R
                                                               NH2
                                00
                 a-maleimido DPR                       p-maleimido  DPR
                        R = val-cit-PAB-MMAE
[0344]     Both DPR maleimides possess a basic primary amine which is separated from the
maleimido nitrogen by two carbon atoms. Both also possess an electron withdrawing
carboxamide group, however the distance from the maleimido nitrogen the carboxamide varies
from 1 to 2 carbon units (a and P, respectively). Finally, the separation between the basic amine
and the carboxamide also varies from 1 to 2 carbon units (P and a, respectively). Collectively,
this means that in  p-DPR the carboxamide   exerts less electron withdrawing influence on the
maleimide ring but more electron withdrawing influence on the primary amine, relative to a
DPR. This is expected to slow the rate of hydrolysis by reducing both the electrophilicity of the
maleimide and the basicity of the primary amine. When these maleimido drug-linkers were
conjugated to reduced antibody and monitored for succinimide hydrolysis, a 17-fold lower
hydrolysis rate was observed for -DPR relative to at-DPR (Figure 6). This example illustrates
how the relative positioning of a basic group and an electron withdrawing group can be used to
'tune' the hydrolysis rate.
                                                 123

Examples 8 - 15
[0345]     To evaluate the stability and pharmacological activity of ADCs prepared with self
stabilizing drug-linkers, a self-stabilizing maleimido-drug-linker was prepared. This drug-linker
contains the maleimido-DPR group coupled to the cytotoxic agent MMAE via a protease
cleavable val-cit PAB self-immolative group (referred to herein as maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB
MMAE). For comparison, a non self-stabilizing drug-linker was used (referred to herein as
maleimido-caproyl-val-cit-PAB-MMAE).          The only difference between these agents is the unit
between the maleimide and the valine group of the val-cit linker. The maleimide units of these
drug-linkers can be prepared using maleic anhydride and mono-protected diaminopropionic acid
and aminocaproic acid, respectively
   diaminopropionyl       NH
                      H2N   O
                                                                     0HO
     aminocaproyl
                              NH
                         H2 N O
Example 8    - Evaluating stability of Ligand-Drug Conjugates in Buffer
[0346]     In standard buffer systems, maleimide elimination from a bioconjugate prepared using
thiol-maleimide chemistry is essentially undetectable because the eliminated maleimide quickly
reacts again with the thiol, resulting in an equilibrium which lies far toward the side of the intact
conjugate. However, the addition of a thiol scavenger to the buffer creates a system in which
maleimide that eliminates from the bioconjugate can instead react with the scavenger, resulting
in a persistent, observable loss of the maleimide from the protein. An experiment using such a
                                                   124

system was performed with antibody-drug conjugates prepared with a self-stabilizing
diaminoproprionyl (DPR) maleimido drug-linker alongside a non-stabilizing caproyl drug-linker.
ADCs were prepared with 8 drugs per antibody of either maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE
or maleimido-caproyl-val-cit-PAB-MMAE using a fully reduced humanized IgG1. Drug loading
was confirmed by reversed-phase HPLC on a polymeric PLRP-S column as described
previously (Sun 2005). Complete succinimide hydrolysis of the self-stabilizing linker was also
confirmed by electrospray mass spectrometry. These ADCs were placed in 150 mM Tris buffer,
pH 8, at 2.5 mg/mL, containing 10 mM N-acetylcysteine as a scavenger, and incubated for 2
weeks at 37 'C. At seven timepoints during the incubation, an aliquot of each ADC was
removed and frozen at -80'C. Upon completion of the time-course, all samples were analyzed by
the above reversed-phase HPLC method to determine the drug : antibody ratio. The results of
this study are shown in Figure 7. The ADC prepared with the self-stabilizing DPR maleimido
drug-linker exhibited minimal loss of drug over this timecourse (from 8.0 to 7.9 drugs per
antibody over 14 days), while the ADC prepared with the caproyl maleimido drug-linker lost
approximately half of its drug load (from 8.0 to 3.9 drugs per antibody over 14 days) under these
conditions.
Example 9 - Ex Vivo Plasma Stability (reversed phase method)
[0347]     Assessing drug loading of humanized ADCs in non-human plasma samples by the
reversed-phase HPLC method described in Example 8 can be achieved by first isolating the
ADCs with IgSelect resin (GE Healthcare), which selectively binds to the human Fc domain.
ADCs were prepared with 8 drugs per antibody of either maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE
or maleimido-caproyl-val-cit-PAB-MMAE using a fully reduced human IgG1. These ADCs
(0.25 mg/mL) were incubated in sterile rat plasma for 7 days at 37 'C. At seven timepoints
during the incubation, a 50 pL aliquot of each ADC was removed and frozen at -80 'C. Upon
completion of the timecourse, ADCs were purified from each sample and analyzed by reversed
phase HPLC to determine the drug : antibody ratio. The results of this study are plotted in
Figure 8. As was observed in buffer, incubation of an ADC prepared with a self-stabilizing
maleimide in rat plasma also results in little or no observable loss of drug under conditions which
result in the loss of approximately half of the drug from a maleimido-caproyl ADC.
Example 10 - Ex Vivo Plasma Stability (conjugated drug method)
                                                  125

[0348]     A second assay format was utilized to assess ADC stability in rat and human plasma ex
vivo. ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB
MMAE or maleimido-caproyl-val-cit-PAB-MMAE using a human IgGI partially reduced to a
level of 4 thiols per antibody (resulting in an ADC with 4 drugs per antibody).    These two ADCs
were spiked into rat and human plasma and incubated at 37 'C for 7 days. At seven timepoints
during this incubation, aliquots were removed and frozen at -80 'C until completion of the
timecourse. ADCs were then isolated from each sample and MMAE released proteolytically
from the isolated ADCs as described previously (Sanderson 2005). The released MMAE was
then quantified by LC-MS/MS and normalized to the initial value for each ADC (Figure 9). In
both rat and human plasma, the ADC prepared with a self-stabilizing maleimide lost little or no
drug under these conditions, while approximately half of the drug was lost from a maleimido
caproyl ADC.
Example 11 - In Vivo Stability
[0349]     As described in Example 10 above, the drug:antibody ratio can be measured for ADCs
in rat plasma by reversed-phase HPLC analysis following purification with IgSelect resin. This
method was applied to samples derived from an in vivo pharmacokinetic experiment in rats.
ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE
or maleimido-caproyl-val-cit-PAB-MMAE using a humanized IgGI partially reduced to an
average of 4 thiols per antibody (resulting in drug : antibody ratio of 4). These ADCs were
further purified as described previously (Sanderson 2005) by hydrophobic interaction
chromatography to isolate the species containing 4 drugs per antibody. These ADCs were dosed
intravenously at 10 mg/kg in Sprague-Dawley rats. At five timepoints, three animals from each
dosing group were sacrificed and the collected blood was processed to plasma and frozen at -80
'C. Upon completion of the study, all samples were processed by the IgSelect resin method
described above, except that the sample volume varied. The drug : antibody ratio at each
timepoint in this study are plotted in Figure 10. As was observed in rat plasma ex vivo, the ADC
prepared with a self-stabilizing maleimide exhibits minimal loss of drug in vivo, dropping from
an initial value of 4.1 drugs per antibody to a value of 3.6 drugs per antibody (12% reduction)
after 7 days. During this same timeframe, the drug: antibody ratio of an ADC prepared with a
maleimido-caproyl linker dropped from an initial value of 3.9 to a value of 1.5 (61% reduction).
                                                 126

This illustrates that the increased stability of a self-stabilizing drug-linker that is observed ex vivo
translates into an in vivo setting.
Example 12 - Pharmacokinetics
[0350]     Because maleimido-caproyl ADCs are prone to loss of drug through maleimide
elimination whereas self-stabilizing maleimide ADCs are not, it is reasonable to predict that
exposure to antibody-conjugated drug will be greater following equivalent doses of the two
ADCs. To confirm this prediction, ADCs were prepared with 4 drugs per antibody of either
maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE or maleimido-caproyl-val-cit-PAB-MMAE using a human
IgGI partially reduced to an average of 4 thiols per antibody (resulting in drug : antibody ratio of
4).  These two ADCs were dosed at 2 mg/kg in Sprague-Dawley rats, and blood samples were
taken at seven timepoints and processed to plasma. These plasma samples, along with standards
of each ADC for the preparation of a calibration curve, were subjected to the mAb Select resin
capture and papain release procedure described example 10 above to measure the concentration
of antibody-conjugated MMAE. Antibody-conjugated drug concentrations were higher for the
ADC prepared with the self-stabilizing drug-linker, with the magnitude of the difference
increasing with time (data not shown). Initial antibody-conjugated drug concentrations are
superimposable, reflecting the equivalence of the dose and drug : antibody ratio of the ADCs.
However, divergence is observed within the first day, reaching a two-fold difference by day 3.
These higher concentrations resulted in an approximately 40% greater antibody-conjugated drug
AUC for the self-stabilized ADC relative to the maleimido-caproyl ADC
Example 13 - Toxicology
[0351]     To assess the impact of self-stabilizing maleimides on toxicology, ADCs were prepared
with 4 drugs per antibody of either maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE or maleimido-caproyl
val-cit-PAB-MMAE using a humanized IgG 1 (which has no known binding to any rat antigen)
partially reduced to an average of 4 thiols per antibody (resulting in an average drug : antibody
ratio of 4). These ADCs were dosed intravenously in female CD@IGS rats (Charles River
Laboratories) at 10 mg/kg (6 rats per test article plus 6 rats receiving vehicle only). Prior to
                                                    127

dosing and at 3 post-dose timepoints, blood samples were taken for hematology and serum
chemistry analysis for biomarkers of toxicity. Neutropenia induced by the MMAE ADC
appeared less severe for the self-stabilized conjugate than for the maleimido-caproyl ADC (data
not shown).
Example 14 - Plasma concentration of released drug
[0352]    The toxicology experiment described in example 13 above also included blood draws at
one hour and 24 hours post-dose, which along with the 4 day and 7 day post-dose samples were
analyzed for unconjugated MMAE in plasma by LC-MS/MS. The results of this analysis
indicated that peak concentrations of circulating MMAE are about 2-fold lower for the self
stabilizing maleimido-DPR-val-cit-PAB-MMAE ADC relative to the maleimido-caproyl-val-cit
PAB-MMAE (data not shown).
Example 15. Xenograft activity
[0353]    To evaluate the impact of self-stabilizing drug-linkers on the antitumor activity of
ADCs, conjugates were prepared with the anti-CD30 antibody cAC10 using drug-linkers
containing the val-cit-PAB-MMAE cytotoxic payload linked to the antibody via either a
maleimido-caproyl group or a self-stabilizing maleimido-DPR group. These ADCs were
evaluated in two separate murine xenograft models of CD30+ human malignancies. In the first
model (Figure 11), Karpas-299 (human ALCL) cells were implanted subcutaneously in female
SCID mice and tumors were allowed to grow a volume of approximately 250 mm 3 before dosing
at 1 mg/kg weekly for three doses (six mice per dose group). All six mice dosed with the
maleimido-caproyl ADC experienced some tumor growth delay relative to the untreated group,
and two animals experienced partial tumor shrinkage; however, all tumors grew out and the
entire group was euthanized with large tumors. The self-stabilizing ADC dose group
experienced complete responses (no detectable tumor) in all six animals, with five animals
experiencing durable regressions for the course of the study and only one animal sacrificed after
its tumor had returned on study day 55. The results of this study indicate a significantly greater
in vivo antitumor activity for the ADC prepared with the self-stabilizing drug-linker. In the
                                                 128

second model, L428 (human Hodgkin Lymphoma) cells were implanted subcutaneously in
female NSG mice and tumors were allowed to grow a volume of approximately 100 mm3 before
dosing at 1 mg/kg every four days for four doses (six mice per dose group). All animals in both
ADC dose groups experienced significant growth delay during treatment, however all tumors
began growing out after study day 28 with no significant difference between maleimido-caproyl
and self-stabilizing ADCs. Thus, the improvement in antitumor activity observed with the self
stabilizing ADC in xenograft studies appears to be model-dependent.
                                               129

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
       1.         A Ligand-Drug Conjugate having the formula:
                                           O                NH2
                                                  N                  LO-D
                                                  H
                            Ab      S                  H
                                                    OH O                         P
                                                  0
       or a salt thereof, wherein
       D is a Drug unit;
       Ab is an antibody;
       S is a sulfur atom from the antibody
       L0 is a bond or a secondary linker assembly having the formula:
                                          -  -A.--Wuv-YV
       wherein -A- is a Stretcher unit, the subscript a' is 0 or 1; -W- is a Cleavable unit, the
subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is a Spacer unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1;
       the subscript p ranges from 1 to 20; and
       the wavy lines indicate the points of attachment within the Ligand-Drug Conjugate
formula.
       2.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 1, wherein w' is 1 and W is conjugated
directly to the Drug unit.
       3.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 1, wherein w' is 1; y' is 1; and W is
conjugated directly to the Spacer unit.
       4.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 1, wherein w' is 1 and W is conjugated
directly to the Drug unit or Spacer unit via a cleavable peptide, disulfide or hydrazone bond.
       5.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 1, wherein w' is 0.
       6.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 1, wherein w' is 1; and each a' and y' is 0.
                                                  130

      7.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein D is selected
from the group consisting of auristatins and PBDs.
      8.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 1, wherein a' is 0 and W, is a dipeptide.
      9.         The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 8 wherein W,< is selected from the group
consisting of Val-Cit, Phe-Lys and Val-Ala.
       10.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 9, wherein D is a cytotoxic agent.
       11.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 10, wherein the cytotoxic agent is an
auristatin selected from the group consisting of AE, AFP, AEB, AEVB, MMAF and MMAE.
       12.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 8, wherein Yy, is a PAB unit.
       13.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 8, wherein the subscript a' is 0; W, is Val
Cit; and Yy- is a PAB unit.
       14.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 8, wherein the subscript a' is 0; Ww is Val
Cit; Yy- is a PAB unit; and D is a cytotoxic agent.
       15.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 8, wherein the subscript a' is 0; W,, is Val
Cit; Y,! is PAB; D is a cytotoxic agent; and the subscript p is 1 to 8.
       16.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the antibody is a
monoclonal antibody.
       17.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 14 or 15, wherein the cytotoxic agent is
MMAE.
       18.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 8, wherein the subscript a' is 0; W, is Val
Cit; Y,- is a PAB unit; and D is MMAE.
       19.       The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of any one of claims 12-15 or 18, wherein the PAB
unit has the structure:
                                                131

                                        HN
       wherein the wavy lines indicate the points of attachment within the remainder of the
Ligand-Drug Conjugate formula.
       20.      The Ligand-Drug Conjugate of claim 16, wherein the subscript p is about 4.
       21.      A Drug-Linker Conjugate having the formula:
                                                        R1
                                     0                  NR11
                                                                LO-D
                                   \        N
                                                   0
     or salt thereof, wherein
     R     and R12 are independently selected from the group consisting of H, unsubstituted C1.6
alkyl and acid-labile nitrogen protecting groups;
       D is Drug unit;
       Lo is a bond or a secondary linker assembly having the formula:
                                          -  -A.--WV-YV
       wherein -A- is a tretcher unit, the subscript a' is 0 or 1; -W- is a Cleavable unit, the
subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is a Spacer unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1; and
       the wavy lines indicate the points of attachment within the Drug-Linker Conjugate
formula.
       22.      The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein w' is 1 and W is conjugated
directly to the Drug unit.
                                                  132

       23.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein w' is 1; y' is 1; and W is
conjugated directly to the Spacer unit.
       24.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein w' is 1 and W is conjugated
directly to the Drug unit or Spacer unit via a cleavable peptide, disulfide or hydrazone bond.
       25.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein w' is 0.
       26.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein w' is 1; and each a' and y' is 0.
       27.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of any one of claims 21-26, wherein D is selected
from the group consisting of auristatins and PBDs.
       28.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of any one of claim 21-26, wherein a' is 0 and W,!is
a dipeptide.
       29.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 28, wherein W,, is selected from the group
consisting of Val-Cit, Phe-Lys and Val-Ala.
       30.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein D is a cytotoxic agent.
       31.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 30, wherein the cytotoxic agent is an
auristatin selected from the group consisting of AE, AFP, AEB, AEVB, MMAF and MMAE.
       32.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein Yy) is a PAB unit.
       33.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein the subscript a' is 0; Ww- is Val
Cit; and Y,! is a PAB unit.
       34.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 21, wherein the subscript a' is 0; Ww is Val
Cit; Yy is a PAB unit; and D is a cytotoxic agent.
       35.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 34, wherein the cytotoxic agent is MMAE.
       36.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of claim 22, wherein the subscript a' is 0; W, is Val
Cit; Yy- is a PAB unit; and D is MMAE.
                                                  133

      37.       The Drug-Linker Conjugate of any one of claims 32-34 or 36, wherein the PAB
unit has the structure:
                                                                 0
                                    HN
        wherein the wavy lines indicate the points of attachment within the remainder of the
Drug-Linker Conjugate formula.
     38.        A Linker having the formula:
                                                        R12
                                     0                  NR 11
                                                               LO-RG)
                                    \       N
      or salt thereof, wherein
      R    and R12 are independently selected from the group consisting of H, unsubstituted CI-6
alkyl and acid-labile nitrogen protecting groups;
      RG is a reactive group comprising a reactive site at the terminus of L , suitable for
attaching a Drug unit;
      Lo is a bond or a secondary linker assembly having the formula:
                                         -   -A.-W..-Yy
      wherein -A- is a Stretcher unit, the subscript a' is 0 or 1; -W- is a Cleavable unit, the
subscript w' is 0 or 1; and -Y- is a Spacer unit, and the subscript y' is 0 or 1; and
      the wavy lines indicate the points of attachment within the Linker formula.
                                                  134

        39.     The Linker of claim 38, wherein
        RG is a selected from the group consisting of sulfhydryl groups to form disulfide bonds
or thioether bonds, aldehyde, ketone, or hydrazine groups to form hydrazone bonds, carboxylic
or amino groups to form peptide bonds, carboxylic or hydroxy groups to form ester bonds,
sulfonic acids to form sulfonamide bonds, alcohols to form carbamate bonds, and amines to form
sulfonamide bonds or carbamate bonds.
        40.     The Linker of claim 38, wherein RG is a carboxylic acid or activated ester thereof
to form a peptide bond.
        41.     The Linker of claim 40, wherein a' is 0 and Wn is a dipeptide.
        42.     The Linker of claim 40, wherein W, is selected from the group consisting of Val
Cit, Phe-Lys and Val-Ala.
        43.     The Linker of any one of claims 39 to 42, wherein Yy, is a PAB unit having the
formula:
                                                             0
                                  HN
        wherein the wavy lines indicate the points of attachment within the remainder of the
Linker formula.
                                                135

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
10/10
                           Figure 11

