     SOLID DRUG DELIVERY APPARATUS, FORMULATIONS AND METHODS OF USE
                                              Abstract
          Embodiments provide apparatus and methods for delivering solid form medications
   such as pellets to various locations in the body. One embodiment provides an apparatus
 5 for in vivo delivery of medication pellets comprising a first chamber including an opening;
   a second chamber substantially surrounding the first chamber, a carriage disposed in the
   first chamber, a mechanism for transferring the medication pellets from the first chamber
   to the second chamber and a pusher plate. The carriage can hold and dispense a
   plurality of medication pellets. Each pellet contains a selected dose of drug to treat a
10 medical condition. A catheter is positioned in the second chamber. The catheter has a
   lumen sized for the pellet, a proximal end inside the chamber and a distal end extending
   through chamber opening to deliver the pellet to a delivery site. The pusher plate
   engages and advances the pellet though the catheter to the delivery site.

 Solid Drug Delivery Apparatus, Formulations and Methods of Use
Relationship to Other Applications
[0001]       This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S.
Provisional Application Serial No. 61/210,554, filed March 20, 2009,
entitled " Solid Drug Delivery Apparatus" which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety for all purposes. This application also
claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/210,579, filed March 20, 2009, entitled "Methods of Solid Drug
Delivery" which is fully incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for
all purposes.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       Field of the Invention. Embodiments of the invention relate to
drug delivery devices and methods of use thereof. More specifically,
embodiments of the invention relate to implantable drug delivery devices
for the delivery of solid form drugs and other therapeutic agents.
[0003]       The current trend in many medical treatments requires the
delivery of a drug to a specific target site so as to avoid the toxicity to
other tissue, as well as more precisely controlling the timing and amount
of drug delivered to that site. In many cases, this can require an
implantable drug pump. However, due to their size and power
requirements the current available pumps do not lend themselves to all
                                         1

medical applications, particularly for delivery of medication to the brain
and other tissues, where very precisely controlled doses of drug can be
required. Also current devices can require frequent replenishment of the
drug due to limited reservoir size and/or limited shelf life of the drug.
Thus, there is a need for improved implantable drug delivery devices and
associated methods for in vivo drug delivery.
BRIEF SUMMARY
[0004]        Embodiments of the invention provide apparatus, systems,
formulations and methods for delivering medications in solid form to
various locations in the body. Many embodiments provide an implanted
apparatus for delivering medication in solid form wherein the medication
includes one or more solid form drugs for treating various medical
conditions such as epilepsy and diabetes. Particular embodiments provide
an enclosed implanted apparatus for delivering solid form medications
such as elements (e.g., pellets) to a delivery site so as to treat a medical
condition for an extended period of time. Embodiments also provide
various solid form medications or formulations comprising one or more
drugs to be delivered by embodiments of the apparatus or other solid
drug delivery apparatus.
 [0005]       One embodiment provides an apparatus for in vivo delivery of
 solid form medications or formulations comprising a first chamber
 including a first opening; a second chamber substantially surrounding the
 first chamber, a carriage disposed in the first chamber, a mechanism for
 transferring the medication from the first chamber to the second chamber
 and a pusher plate. The medication will typically be formulated into
 pellets, though other solid formulations are also contemplated (e.g.,
 powder). Each pellet contains a selected dose of a drug to treat a
 particular medical condition such as epilepsy. The dose can be selected
 based on the patient's weight and age. Also, the medication pellets are
 desirably formulated using one or more pharmaceutical excipients,
                                       2

including disintegrants so as disintegrate and dissolve the pellets in a
controlled fashion to achieve and maintain a sufficient concentration of
the drug (either at the tissue site, plasma or other tissue location) for
treatment of the condition. The pellets are also desirably fabricated so as
to have a shelf life of years or longer in vivo so the drug maintains its
potency and therapeutic effectiveness. The pellets can include a plurality
of drugs for treatment of conditions, for example, a cocktail of antiviral
drugs for treatment of HIV AIDS.
 [0006]       The carriage is configured to hold and dispense a plurality of
 medication pellets through an opening in the carriage. The carriage can
 be spring loaded or use other advancement means. Desirably, the
carriage contains a sufficient supply of medication pellets to provide
treatment of the condition for an extended period of time, for example,
two years or longer.
 [0007]       The mechanism is disposed in the first chamber and includes
 a carrying member configured to receive a medication pellet from the
 carriage, transfer the pellet outside the first chamber through the first
 opening and then return inside the first chamber. Typically, the carrying
 member will include a slot or other opening for holding the pellet. Also a
 sliding member can be positioned over the carrying member to hold the
 pellet in place during -movement of the carrying member. The carrying
 member and/or the sliding member can be advanced by means of a
 mechanical drive source such as a spring or an electrical drive source
 such as linear induction motor, a solenoid or a piezoelectric transducer.
 In specific embodiments, the drive source can comprise a nickel titanium
 wire or other shape memory material that changes length in response to
 heating from an electrical current. Use of an expandable gas as a drive
 source is also contemplated whereby the gas can be expanded by heating
 from a resistive heating element. The gas can be used to expand a piston
 or like drive element which engages one or more of the carrying member
 or the sliding member.
                                        3

[0008]        An elongate member such as a catheter is positioned in tne
second chamber. The elongate member has a lumen sized to receive the
medication pellet, a proximal end inside the chamber and a distal end or
tip that extends through an opening in the chamber to deliver the pellet
to a target tissue site. Desirably, the distal tip has an atraumatic
configuration to allow for extended periods of implantation at the target
tissue site. The pusher plate is used to disengage the pellet from the
mechanism and push or advance the pellet into the elongate member
lumen and out to the target tissue site. The pusher plate can be coupled
to one or more drive sources described herein. Other advancement
 means are also contemplated including use of a liquid coupled to a pump
or other pressure source where the liquid carries the pellet out of the
elongate member.
 [0009]       In many embodiments, the apparatus is coupled to a
 controller for controlling one more aspects of the medication delivery
 process including actuation and control of the drive source to deliver a
 medication pellet. The controller can be programmed to include a
 delivery regimen wherein medication is delivered at regular intervals
 (e.g., once or twice a day, etc) over an extended period. It can also be
 configured to receive a signal (e.g., wireless or otherwise) to initiate the
 delivery of medication or to change the delivery regimen (e.g., from once
 a day to twice a day). In this way, the patient or a medical care provider
 can control the delivery of medication in response to a specific event
 (e.g., an episode of angina) or longer term changes in the patient's
 condition or diagnosis.
  [0010]      The controller can be coupled to or otherwise receive inputs
 from an implanted sensor, such as a glucose sensor, which senses a
  physiologic parameter indicative of a condition to be treated by the
  medication in the medication pellet, for example, diabetic hyperglycemia
  (treated by insulin). When the controller receives an input from the
  sensor indicative of the condition, it initiates the delivery of one or more
                                          4

  medication pellets to the target tissue site so as to treat the medical
  condition. Both the initial and subsequent inputs from the sensor can be
  used to titrate the delivery of medication pellets over an extended period
  until the condition is dissipated or otherwise treated. The controller can
 also receive inputs from other sensors configured to measure the plasma
 or other tissue concentration of the delivered drug. These inputs can also
  be used to titrate the delivery of the medication to achieve a selected
 concentration of drug (e.g., in plasma, tissue, etc). The drug sensors can
 be positioned at the target tissue site as well as other sites in the body
 (e.g., a vein or artery) in order to develop a pharmacokinetic model of the
 distribution of the drug at multiple sites in the body. The apparatus can
 also include a sensor coupled to the controller which indicates when the
 medication pellets have been used up and/or exactly how many are left.
 The controller in turn can signal this data to an external communication
 device such as a cell phone, portable monitor or remote monitor (e.g., at
 the physician's office). In this way, the patient and/or medical care
 provider can take appropriate action before the apparatus runs out of
 medication.
 [0011]       The pellets or other solid form of the medication are delivered
to a delivery site such as subcutaneous tissue where they are configured
to be broken, disintegrate and absorbed by body tissue fluids so as to
 produce a desired concentration of the drug at a target tissue site. In
some applications, the delivery site can be the same as the target site, for
example the brain. In other applications, the target site can be different
from the delivery site, for example, the delivery site can be intramuscular
tissue in the chest and the target site can be the heart or the liver. The
delivery site can be adjacent the target site, for example adipose to
deliver to underlying muscle tissue, or it can be placed at a non
oppositional site, for example, intramuscular delivery to reach the site of
the heart. In each case, the medication pellet can include a selected dose
of drug and be configured to disintegrate and be dissolved by body tissue
                                         5

 riuias so as to yield a therapeutically errective concentration or the drug at
 the target tissue site. In many applications, this involves the pellet being
 dissolved by body tissue fluids at the delivery site (e.g., interstitial fluids)
 where the drug then diffuses from the tissue into the blood stream where
 it is carried to the target tissue site. Accordingly, in these and other
 applications, the dose of the drug in the pellet can be titrated to achieve a
 selected plasma (or other tissue compartment) concentration of the drug
 (or concentration range) for a selected period during and after dissolution
 of the pellet.
 [0012]        In some embodiments, the pellet (including the drug dose) is
 configured to disintegrate and be dissolved by the tissue fluids within a
 body compartment such as the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the brain so as
to achieve a selected concentration in the tissue fluid within that
 compartment. In particular embodiments for treating various neural
disorders such as epileptic and other seizures, the pellet is configured to
 rapidly disintegrate and be dissolved in the CSF so as to rapidly achieve a
selected concentration of the drug throughout the CSF bathing the brain
to prevent the occurrence of the seizure or lessen its duration and
severity. This can be achieved through the use of one or more super dis
integrants as well as disintegrating enhancing features (e.g., pores,
cracks or other intrusions) in or on the pellet. It can also be achieved by
treating the pellet prior or after delivery with mechanical,
electromagnetic, acoustical or other energy to weaken the pellet
structure, create cracks and other structural defects for the ingress of
fluids or initiate the breakup of the pellet into smaller pieces. In other
embodiments, a solid form medication for delivery within the body of a
patient is provided, the medication comprising at least one drug for the
treatment of a disease or condition, wherein the medication has a shape
and material properties so as to be: (i) be stored in a container implanted
within the body for an extended period without substantial degradation or
deleterious effect to the medication, (ii) delivered to a delivery site, and
                                         6

  (i) dissolve in tissue fluids at the delivery site to produce a therapeutic
 effect at a target tissue site to treat the disease or condition.
  [0013]       In various applications, embodiments of the invention can be
 used to deliver solid form drugs to provide treatment for a number of
 medical conditions including epileptic seizures, high blood pressure,
 elevated cholesterol, diabetes, coronary arrhythmia's (both atrial and
 ventricular), coronary ischemia (e.g., from a heart attack), cerebral
 ischemia, stroke, anemia or other like condition. The apparatus can be
 implanted at or near the target tissue site (e.g., the brain) or at remote
 delivery site (e.g., intramuscularly in the chest or thigh). Further
 embodiments of the invention can be used to provide concurrent
treatment for two or more of these or other conditions eliminating the
 need for the patient to take multiple doses of multiple drugs (e.g., orally
or by parenteral means) over the course of day. This is particularly
 beneficial to patients who have long term chronic conditions including
those who have impaired cognitive abilities.
[0014]        In an exemplary embodiment of a method for using the
invention, depending upon the condition to be treated, the apparatus can
be implanted at a selected delivery site (e.g., the brain). Implantation
can be done using an open or minimally invasive surgical procedure.
Prior to implantation, the carriage can be loaded with a selected number
of pellets to provide for delivery of pellets to the delivery site over an
extended period of time, e.g., years. Once implanted, the pellets can be
stored in the apparatus for an extended period of years (e.g., 1, 2, 5
years or longer) without degradation or deleterious effect to the pellets
(e.g., loss of drug potency or therapeutic effectiveness). The apparatus
can deliver solid form medication to the delivery site at regular intervals
(e.g., once a day, week, month, etc.) or in response to an input from a
sensor. In the latter case, the input can be indicative of a particular
medical condition or event such as an epileptic seizure or pre-seizure
event. A controller described herein can be used to determine when to
                                        7

  initiate delivery based on the sensor input and/or the time intervals for
 delivery for embodiments employing delivery at regular intervals. In
 either case, the controller can send a signal to the transfer mechanism to
 transfer a pellet from the carriage and inner chamber to outer chamber.
 Once in the outer chamber, the pusher plate or other advancement
 means transfers the pellet from the transfer mechanism and advances it
 out through the catheter to target delivery site. There it
 disintegrates/degrades and is dissolved in local tissue fluids to treat a
 local target tissue site (e.g., it dissolves in the CSF to treat the brain), or
 it is subsequently absorbed into the blood stream where it is carried to a
 remote target tissue site (e.g., the liver, heart, etc) or both. Further
 pellets can be delivered based on input from a sensor providing
 physiologic data predictive of the medical condition (e.g., blood glucose)
 or another sensor that is configured to sense the local and/or plasma
concentration of the drug. In some embodiments, pellet delivery can be
controlled by sensing the state of disintegration of previously delivered
pellets. For example, another pellet can be delivered when it has been
determined that the previous pellet is in a particular state of
disintegration (e.g., it has been completely or substantially disintegrated).
This can be achieved by sending and receiving a signal from the pellet
such as an optical, ultrasound or electrical signal. For example, for the
use of optical signal reflectance measurements can be used to determine
the state of disintegration. A particular disintegration state can be
determined when the reflectance signal falls below a particular threshold.
Similar approaches can be used for use of reflected ultrasound or
impedance. The pellet can even include various echogenic, or optically
opaque or other agents to enhance the reflected ultrasonic, optical or
other signal. The pellet may also include various optical indicia having
one or more of a pattern, size or shape configured to provide an
indication of the state of disintegration of the pellet.
                                          8

[0015]      Further details of these and other embodiments and aspects
of the invention are described more fully below, with reference to the
attached drawing figures.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016]      Fig. 1 is a side viewing showing an embodiment of a solid
drug delivery apparatus.
[0017]      Fig. 2a is a side view illustrating an embodiment of the
medication pellet.
[0018]      Fig. 2b is a side view illustrating an embodiment of the
medication pellet having features for accelerating degradation and
dissolution of the pellet by body tissue fluids.
  [0019]    Fig. 2c is a side view illustrating an embodiment of the
medication pellet having coatings and optical indicia for measurement of
pellet degradation/disintegration by body tissue fluids.
[0020]       Fig. 3a is a side view showing an embodiment of a carriage
for holding a supply of medication pellets.
[0021]       Fig. 3b is a perspective showing an embodiment of stacked
carriages for holding a supply of medication pellets.
[0022]       Fig. 4 is a side viewing showing an embodiment of a
mechanism for transferring medication pellets between different
chambers of the apparatus.
 [0023]      Figs. Sa-5g are side views showing operation of an
embodiment of the transfer mechanism having reciprocating motion.
 [0024]      Figs. 6a and 6b are side views showing operation of a shape
memory metal drive source for the transfer mechanism.
 [0025]      Figs. 7a and 7b are side views showing operation of a heated
gas/piston drive source for the transfer mechanism.
                                        9

[0026]        Figs.:7a-7e are side views illustrating operation of the
mechanism to transfer medication pellet from an interior of the apparatus
to a delivery site.
 [0027]       Fig. 8a is a side view illustrating an embodiment of a catheter
used to deliver the pellet to the target tissue site.
 [0028]       Fig. 8b is a side view illustrating use of an embodiment of a
catheter having sensors for measuring the disintegration state of a
medication pellet.
 [0029]       Figs. 9a-9d show embodiments of the apparatus for
placement at different locations in the body; Fig. 9a shows placement of
the entire apparatus in the brain for delivery of medication to a target site
 in brain tissue; Fig. 9b shows placement of the apparatus on the scalp
with a delivery catheter extending into the brain; Fig. 9c shows an
 embodiment of the apparatus having two delivery catheters positioned at
two different delivery sites. Fig. 9d shows an embodiment of the
 apparatus having two delivery catheters with the first delivery catheter
 positioned near or in the knee joint and the second delivery catheter
 positioned at a different location.
 [0030]       Figs. 10a-10d are side views illustrating operation of an
 embodiment of the pusher plate to engage and advance the medication
 pellet.
 [0031]       Figs. 10e is a side view illustrating operation of an
 embodiment of a charged pusher plate to engage and advance the
 medication pellet.
 [0032]       Fig. 11 is a schematic block diagram illustrating an
 embodiment of a controller for use with one or more embodiments of the
 solid drug delivery apparatus.
 [0033]       Fig. 12a shows placement of a medication pellet in a ventricle
 brain for dissolution and delivery of the drug to a target site in the brain.
                                         10

[0034]        Fig. 12b shows placement of a medication/drug pellet at a
delivery site for transport of the drug to a target tissue site removed from
the delivery site.
[0035]        Figs. 13a and 13b are side views of the pellet illustrating the
delivery of force or energy to break down the pellet structure so as to
enhance dissolution of the pellet. Fig. 13a shows the pellet before
force/energy delivery; and Fig. 13b show the pellet afterwards.
[0036]        Fig. 14 is a side view illustrating the delivery of a mechanical
force to the medication pellet to enhance dissolution of the pellet.
[0037]        Fig. 15 is a side view illustrating the delivery of energy to the
medication pellet prior to delivery to enhance dissolution of the pellet.
 [0038]       Fig. 16 is a side view illustrating the delivery of energy to the
pellet delivery site to enhance to dissolution of pellet.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [0039]       Embodiments of the invention provide apparatus, systems,
formulations and methods for delivering medications in solid form to
various locations in the body. Many embodiments provide an implanted
 apparatus for delivering medication in solid form wherein the medication
 includes one or more solid form drugs or other therapeutic agent for
treating various medical conditions such as epilepsy, diabetes, high blood
 pressure, and high cholesterol. Particular embodiments provide an
 enclosed implanted apparatus for delivering solid form medications to a
 delivery site DS and ultimately to a target tissue site TS (herein target
 site TS), such as the brain, to treat a medical condition for an extended
 period of time. Embodiments also provide various solid form medications
 or formulations comprising one or more drugs to be delivered by
 embodiments of the apparatus or other solid drug delivery apparatus.
 [0040]       Referring now to Figs. 1 and 4, an embodiment of an
 apparatus 10 for the delivery of a solid form medication 100 to a delivery
                                         11

site DS, comprises a first chamber 20 including a first chamber opening or
port 25; a second chamber 30 (also known as outer chamber 30)
substantially surrounding the first chamber and including a second
chamber opening or port 35, a carriage 40 disposed in the first chamber,
a mechanism 50 for transferring medication from the first chamber to the
second chamber and a pusher plate or other transfer element 70 for
transferring solid medication 100 from the second chamber to the exterior
of the chamber. As will be discussed herein, in many embodiments, port
35 is coupled to an elongate member 60 such as a catheter 60 having a
lumen 61, a proximal end 62 coupled to opening 35 a distal end 63
positioned at a tissue delivery DS for delivery of solid medication 100.
[0041] Referring now to Fig. 2a, solid form medication also described
herein as formulation 100 will typically be formulated into pellets, though
other solid formulations are also contemplated, such as powder, granules
and the like. For ease of discussion, solid form medication 100 will now
be referred to as medication pellets 100 and/or pellets 100, but it will be
appreciated that other forms of solid medication 100 are equally
applicable. Also as used herein, the term medication comprises a drug
 110 or other therapeutic agent 110 and one or more pharmaceutical
excipients 120. Other therapeutic agents 110 can include antibodies,
vaccines, micro-nutrients and like agents. Accordingly, each pellet 100
contains a selected dose of a drug or other therapeutic agent 110 to treat
a particular medical condition such as Furosemide for the treatment of
epilepsy. The dose can be selected based on the patient's weight and
age. Also in many embodiments, the medication pellets 100 can be
formulated using one or more pharmaceutical excipients 120. Suitable
excipients 120 include preservatives for preserving the drug, binders for
 binding the drug components together and disintegrants for disintegrating
 and dissolving the pellets in a controlled fashion to achieve and maintain
 a sufficient concentration of the drug (either at the tissue site or other
tissue location) for treatment of the condition. As is described herein,
                                       12

disintegrants 120 can include super-disintegrants known in tne art.
Example super-disintegrants include sodium starch glycolate,
crospovidone, croscarmellose sodium as well as related salts and like
compounds.
[0042]         Pellets 100 can have a selectable size and shape 100s and can
comprise any .number of drugs or other therapeutic agents and can be
fabricated using various pharmaceutical manufacturing methods including
lyophilization. In particular embodiments, pellets 100 can have a round,
oval or other shape. The size and shape of pellet 100 can be selected
based upon one or more of the required dose of the drug, the
disintegration rate and the delivery site. The shape can also be selected
for optimized packing into carriage 40 or other like element. Particular
embodiments of pellets 100 can be shaped and sized to allow for packing
of 50, 100, 200 or more pellets within carriage 40. The pellets 100 are
also desirably fabricated so as to have a shelf life of years when stored in
vivo, for example two to five years or longer so that the drug maintain its
potency and therapeutic effectiveness. Such shelf lives can be achieved
through one or more of the use of preservatives and lyophilization of one
or more of the chemical components comprising pellet 100 such that
 pellets 100 including drugs 110 neither substantially degrade nor suffer
other deleterious effects (e.g., effects which reduce the potency or
therapeutic efficacy of the drug, for example, wherein the potency or
therapeutic efficacy of the drug is reduced by no more than 10, or 1, or
 0.1%) while stored in chamber 20. Referring back to Fig. 1, shelf lives
 can also be facilitated by constructing chamber 20 to have a substantially
 hermetic seal such that little or no degradation or other deleterious effect
 occurs to pellet 100 from exposure to moisture, air or other ambient
 condition which may cause degradation of pellet 100. In specific
 embodiments, portions of mechanism 50 including section 51e and sleeve
 52 can be configured to form a seal 51h which can be maintained during
 all or a portion of the motion of mechanism 50 through opening 25. Also,
                                        13

one or both of chambers 20 and 30 can include a desiccant such as a
Zeolite desiccant to absorb any water vapor that may get into either
chamber and/or prevent water vapor from getting into chamber 20. Use
of the seal for chamber 20 alone and/or with a desiccant allows the
interior 20i of chamber 20 to remain substantially isolated from the
environment of the body and thus extend the shelf life of pellets 100.
[0043]       In various embodiments, pellets 100 can comprise a single or
a plurality of drugs 110. In particular embodiments, pellets 100 can
include a combination of drugs for treatment of a single or multiple
conditions, for example, a cocktail of antiviral drugs such as protease
inhibitors for treatment of HIV AIDS and also antibiotics for the treatment
of adjunct bacterial infections.
[0044]       Referring now to Figs. 2b and 2c, in various embodiments,
pellets 100 can include various features and chemical agents to enhance
the degradation/disintegration of the pellet as well as quantify the amount
and rate of disintegration (as used herein with respect to pellet 100 the
terms degrade and disintegrate are essentially interchangeable. In
various embodiments, the pellet can be porous or and/or include one or
more channels 101 extending inwards from the pellet surface to facilitate
the ingress (through capillary action) of body tissue fluids within pellet
interior 102 to accelerate disintegration of the pellet by dissolution. In
particular embodiments, channels 101 can be arranged in a pattern 103
so as to result in a substantially uniform ingress of body tissue fluids
along the pellet circumference 104 as is show in the embodiment of Fig.
 2b.
 [0045]       Also in various embodiments, pellets 100 can include
 echogenic, or optically reflective agents 100a to enhance the reflected an
 acoustical or optical signal reflected off of pellet 100. As is discussed
 herein such signals are used to quantify the amount of disintegration of
 the pellet. The pellet 100 may also include various optical indicia 100i
                                        14

having one or more of a pattern, size or shape configured to provide an
indication of the state of disintegration of the pellet. The patterns can be
configured to enhance reflectance (optical or acoustic), or contrarily to
enhance scattering. Multiple indicia having different patterns (e.g., some
reflective some causing scattering) can be positioned at several locations
on the pellet. The size and shape of the indicia 100i can be used to
determine a total amount of disintegration as well as a rate of
disintegration, e.g., the smaller the size of the indicia the more
disintegration has occurred with the rate of size decrease of the indicia
being correlative to a rate of disintegration. Various calibration
measurements may be made (e.g., measuring pellet mass and indicia size
over the time course of disintegration) to establish the precise correlative
relationship between rate of indicia loss and pellet disintegration (e.g.,
first order, second order, etc). In particular embodiments, indicia 100i
can comprise lines, rectangles, or ovals extending over all or a portion of
the length and width of pellet 100 as is shown in the embodiment of Fig.
2b. Other contemplated shapes for indicia 100i include circles and
various intersecting shapes such as a crisscross shape. Indicia 100i may
also be placed at various locations along the perimeter 104 of pellet 100.
 [0046]       Referring again to Figs. 1 and 4, chambers 20 and 30 can be
joined by one or more joints 21 which can be mechanical (e.g., a strut,
 bolt, swage, etc) adhesive or another joining means. Joints 21 can also
 be flexible allowing outer chamber 30 to twist, bend or pivot with respect
to inner chamber 20. One or both chambers can be fabricated from
 various biocompatible metals and plastics known in the art, such as PET,
fluoropolymer, PEBAX, polyurethane, titanium, stainless steel and the
 like. Also one or both can -be fabricated from gas/water vapor
 impermeable materials or include gas impermeable layers so as to
 minimize the transmission of water vapor into chamber 20 and/or 30.
 Suitable gas/water impermeable materials include isobutyl rubbers.
 Outer chamber 30 can also include one or more biocompatible coatings 31
                                        15

known in the art including polyurethanes, silicones, fluoropolymers,
DACRON and the like. Coating 31 can also include various eluting drugs
such as various steroids known in the cardiovascular implant arts for
reducing the amount of cellular and other bio-adhesion to the chamber.
Outer chamber 30 can be sized and shaped to fit in various locations in
the body including the skull and cranial cavity, the chest, within in one or
more GI organs, the heart, the vascular system, as well as various
subcutaneous and intramuscular locations including the extremities and
the trunk. All or portions of chamber 30 can also be constructed from
conformable materials (e.g., polyurethane silicone and other elastomeric
polymers) to conform to the shape of surrounding tissue layers and
compartment, e.g., the curvature on the inside of the skull, or the contour
of the skin. Conforming materials can also be employed to allow for
surrounding body tissue to grow around and reshape the outer chamber
during prolonged periods of implantation. In this way, embodiments
having a flexible outer chamber minimize the effect of the chamber on the
growth and function of surrounding tissue, thus allowing the apparatus to
be implanted over very prolonged periods including allowing the
apparatus to be implanted in children and remain through adulthood.
Various conformable materials can also be used to facilitate implantation
of apparatus 10 using minimally invasive methods. Such materials allow
the apparatus including chamber 30 to bend, twist or otherwise conform
so as to be inserted through surgical ports and guiding devices and then
 reassume its shape once positioned at the intended implantation site. In
 particular embodiments, bending and twisting of chamber 30 can be
further facilitated by the use of flexible joints 21 described herein.
 Chamber 30 can also be sized and shaped to further facilitate
 implantation by minimally invasive surgical methods. For example, it can
 have a particular size and shape such as a cylindrical shape to enable it
 pass through various minimally invasive surgical ports and guiding
 devices.
                                        16

[0047]       Referring now to Figs. 1, 3a and 3b, carriage 40 is configured
to hold and dispense a plurality of medication pellets 100 or other solid
form medication 100. Typically, this will be through an opening 45 which
engages or otherwise provides access to one or more components of
mechanism 50 for the component to engage an individual pellet. In one
or more embodiments, carriage 40 can be spring loaded to eject pellets
100 for engagement by mechanism 50. In other embodiments, the
carriage can also be configured to supply pellets to mechanism 50 by
gravity feed or related means. Other pellet ejection means are also
contemplated including hydraulic and gas ejection means. Desirably, the
carriage 40 contains a sufficient supply of medication pellets to provide
treatment of a particular medical condition for an extended period of time,
for example, two to five years or longer. In various embodiments, the
carriage 40 can be configured to hold up to several hundred or more
pellets and may include sensors 41 for determining the number of
remaining pellets. The carriage 40 can also be configured to eject or
otherwise provide for the delivery of two or more pellets 100 at the same
time. Multiple carriages 40 can also be employed in a stacked or other
similar fashion so as to comprise stacks 42. Fig. 3b illustrates an
 embodiment of the invention having a carriage stack 42 comprising two
 or more stacked carriages 43. Carriages 40 can be stacked in a vertical
 or horizontal fashion. In such embodiments, the carriage 40 can include
 one or more mating features (not shown) for connecting one carriage to
 another. Embodiments having multiple carriages 40 can be configured for
 delivery of multiple pellets 100 at substantially the same time.
 [0048]      In various embodiments, carriage 40 can be movable or
 stationary. In many embodiments, it is movable and will typically will be
 configured to move in a rotary fashion about a central axis, though it may
 also move in a linear or other fashion. The carriage can be rotated or
 otherwise advanced through various mechanical or electrical mechanical
 means such as a spring, an electric motor, a solenoid switch or a piezo
                                       17

electric drive source. In particular embodiments, the carriage 40 can
comprise a rotating or other movable plastic or metal cassette or a belt
that engages a drive mechanism (not shown). The drive source can also
be built into the carriage, for example in embodiments using a cassette.
In such embodiments, various micro machining and MEMs processes can
be used to miniaturize the drive source. The carriage can also be
configured to remain stationary, such as with embodiments employing
gravity feed. In such embodiments, the carriage can comprise a feeder
40.
 [0049]       Carriage 40 can also include one or more sensors 41 that are
configured to signal exactly how many pellets 100 are left and/or signal
when the pellets have been used up. Sensors 41 will typically also be
coupled or otherwise provide inputs to controller 80 described herein.
The controller can in turn, can signal this data to an external
 communication device such as a cell phone, portable monitor or remote
 monitor (e.g., at the physician's office). In this way, the patient and/or
 medical care provider can take appropriate action before the apparatus
 runs out of medication. Typically, sensors 41 will be coupled to carriage
 40, but they can be placed at other locations on apparatus 10 as well.
 [0050]       Referring to Figs. 1, 4 and 5a-5g, a discussion will now be
 presented of transfer mechanism 50, herein mechanism 50. In many
 embodiments, mechanism 50 is substantially disposed in first chamber 20
 and includes a carrying member 51 configured to receive a medication
 pellet 100 from the carriage 40, transfer the pellet outside the first
 chamber through the chamber opening 25 and then return inside first
 chamber 20. Carrying member 51 will typically include a slot 51s or other
 opening for holding pellet 100. The distal portion 51dp of the carrying
 member (that section facing opening 25) can also include an enlarged
 section 51e which acts as flange to seal against opening 25 and so seal
 chamber 25 when the sliding member is advanced in an outward (i.e.,
 distal) direction. A sliding member or sleeve 52 can be coaxially or
                                        18

otherwise positioned over the carrying member 51 to hold the pellet 100
in place during movement of the carrying member. Sleeve 52 can have
an enlarged section 52e to allow for engagement with various
embodiments of a drive source 54 described below. In some
embodiments, enlarged section 52e can comprise an independently
movable component from the remainder of sleeve 52, allowing sleeve 52
to slide over member 51 to be later followed by section 52e. One or more
bearings 53 can be positioned between carrying member 51 and sleeve
52 to allow the sleeve to slide over member 51. The sleeve 52 is
configured to be advanced over the carrying member including slot 51s
once the pellet is in place in the slot and then move in parallel with
carrying element 51 in an outward direction and then move back with the
carrying member into chamber 20 and then be retracted to expose slot
 51s once the carrying member is completely retracted back into chamber
 20. This whole process is repeated each time a new pellet is received
from the carriage and advanced out of chamber 20.
 [0051]       One or more components of mechanism 50 including carrying
 member 51 and sleeve 52 may comprise metal or polymer and can be
 fabricated using various machining (including micro-machining) and/or
 molding methods known in the art. Typically, the carrying member 51
 and sleeve 52 will be configured to move in a linear manner in and out of
 chamber 20, though other forms of motion are also contemplated (e.g.,
 rotary motion). Movement of the carrying member 51 and/or the sleeve
 52 can be implemented by means of a drive source 54. Drive source 54
 can comprise a mechanical drive source such as a spring; or an electro
 mechanical drive source such as an electric motor, a solenoid or a
 piezoelectric motor. In other related embodiments, one or both of
 carrying member 51 and sliding member 52 can be advanced by means of
 an electromagnetic force where the members comprise part of an
 electronic motor such as a linear induction motor.
                                        19

(0052]        In many embodiments, the transfer mechanism 50 can be
configured to move portions of the mechanism such as the carrying
member 51 in and out of the first chamber in a reciprocating motion.
Figs. 5a-5g, illustrate the operation of an embodiment of mechanism 50
having reciprocating motion. In this embodiment, after a pellet 100 is
deposited into slot 51s, sleeve 52 advances over member 51 and then
distal portions of members 51 and 52 are advanced out of chamber 20, at
which point sleeve 52 is withdrawn to expose the pellet, the pellet is
engaged and advanced into member 60 by pusher plate 70. Members 51
and 52 are then reciprocally withdrawn back into chamber 20, where
member 51 is now ready to receive the next pellet.
[0053]        The above embodiment employs an electromechanical drive
source 54, such as a linear induction motor. However, other drive
sources can also be selected and configured to achieve the motion
described in the above embodiment. Other suitable drive sources can
include spring, magnetic, pneumatic, fluidic and other drive sources
known in the art. Embodiments of apparatus 10 having an electro
mechanical drive source 54 can also include a battery 55 or other electric
power source for powering drive source 54. Suitable batteries 55 include
lithium, lithium-ion, lithium polymer, zinc-air, alkaline and other
chemistries known in the electric battery art.
[0054]         Referring now to Figs. 6a-6b and 7a-7b, in an embodiment
shown in Figs. 6a and 6b., drive source 54 can comprise a nickel titanium
wire or other shape memory material that changes length in response to
heating, for example from an electrical current which can be supplied by
battery 55 or other electric power source. Use of an expandable gas 59
as a drive source is also contemplated whereby the gas can be expanded
by heating from a resistive heating element 56 as is shown in the
embodiments of Figs. 7a and 7b. The gas can be used to expand a
bellows 57 which engages one or more of the carrying member 51 or the
sliding member 52 by means of a shaft 58 or other connecting member.
                                       20

Shaft 58 can also be used to connect other embodiments of drive source
54 to one or both of sliding member 52 and/or carrying member 51.
[0055]       Referring now to Fig. 8a, in many embodiments, apparatus 10
includes an elongate member 60 attached to outer chamber 30 for
delivering a pellet 100 to a target tissue site. Elongate member 60 can
comprise a catheter, metal hypo-tube, or other tubular structure. For
ease of discussion, member 60 will be referred to as delivery catheter 60
or catheter 60 but other forms described above are equally applicable.
Catheter 60 can be fabricated from various polymeric materials known in
the catheter arts including, polyethylene, PET, polyurethanes, silicones
and the like. It may also be fabricated from various metallic materials
including stainless steel, and various super-elastic metals shape memory
materials such as nickel titanium alloys (an example including NITINOL).
Catheter 60 has a lumen 61 sized to receive the medication pellet, a
proximal end 62 positioned inside chamber 30 or coupled to opening 35
and a distal end or tip 63 that extends outside of chamber 30 to deliver
the pellet to a delivery tissue site DS. In particular embodiments catheter
60 can have sufficient length to deliver pellet 100 to a different tissue site
than the location of device 10 (for example, into the brain when the rest
of apparatus 10 is located outside of the skull). Also in particular
embodiments, catheter 60 can be configured to provide the driving force
for advancing pellet 100 from chamber 30 to delivery site DS. The driving
force can comprise a peristaltic like wave of contraction that travels
distally along the length of the catheter. This can be achieved by
constructing catheter 60 from either a piezoelectric or like material and
coupling it to a voltage source or a shape memory material and coupling
it to a thermal power source as is described herein. In the former case,
the application of a voltage causes contraction of the catheter material
 and in the later case the application of heat does so. In an alternative
 embodiment for transporting pellet 100 through catheter 60, pellet 100
 can be charged or include a charged coating, such that the pellet is
                                       21

repelled from the catheter by the application of an electric voltage (having
an opposite charge) to the catheter surface or a pusher plate 70 as is
described herein.
[0056]       Desirably, distal catheter tip 63 has an atraumatic
configuration to allow for extended periods of implantation at the target
delivery site. This can be achieved by configuring the tip to have a
tapered shape 63t as well as fabricating the tip from one or more
atraumatic flexible polymeric materials including silicones and
polyurethanes, fluoropolymers and other known in the art. Catheter 60
including distal tip 63 can also include one or more sensors 64 for making
various measurements at the delivery site DS. Such measurements can
include drug concentration, pH, glucose, various metabolites, tissue P02
and C02 and the like.
 [0056]      Referring now to Fig. 8b, in particular embodiments, sensor
64 can also comprise sensors 65 for making various measurements for
determining the degradation/disintegration state of pellet 100. Suitable
sensors 65 for making such measurements can comprise optical,
impedance, acoustical and chemical sensors. Sensors 65 can also
comprise an assembly 66 including an emitter 66e and detector 66d.
Assembly 66 can include optical emitters and detectors for making
 reflectance measurements and ultrasonic transducers (configured as an
 emitter and detector) for making ultrasonic measurements. Assembly 66
 sends or emits a signal 67 which is modulated or otherwise altered by the
 degradation/disintegration state of the pellet 100 and then reflected back
 by pellet 100 as a signal 68 which can then be analyzed to determine the
 degradation state of the pellet. For example, for use of an optical based
 assembly 66, signal 67 will be returned as a reflected signal 68 which
 progressively decreases in amplitude as the pellet is dissolved and
 disintegrated by body tissue fluids. As indicated above, in various
 embodiments, pellet 100 can include optical indicia 100i to facilitate
 measurement of the degradation state of pellet 100.
                                       22

[0057]       Embodiments having sensors 65 and 66 can be used to
control or regulate pellet delivery by sensing the state of disintegration of
previously delivered pellets. For example, another pellet can be delivered
when it has been determined that the previous pellet is in a particular
state of disintegration (e.g., it has been completely or substantially
disintegrated). This determination can be achieved through use of a
controller 80 described herein which may include one or more algorithms
for analyzing the disintegration state of the pellet and using this
information to make a delivery decision. In particular embodiments,
information on the disintegration state of the pellet can be combined with
other data for making a pellet delivery decision with weightings
assignable to each group of data. Such additional data can include the
blood concentration of the drug as well as various physiological data (e.g.,
temperature, pH, blood gases, etc) including physiological data indicative
of the medical condition to be treated by the delivered drug, e.g., blood
glucose as an indication of hyperglycemia, EKG as an indication of
arrhythmia or brain electrical activity as an indication of an epileptic
seizure or pre seizure event.
[0058]       Referring now to Figs. 9a-9d, the length of the catheter 60
can be configured to allow the apparatus 10 to be positioned near the
delivery site DS or to be positioned at a different location. For example,
in one embodiment shown in Fig. 9a, apparatus 10 can be positioned in
the brain B with the catheter tip 63 positioned a short distance away. In
another embodiment shown in Fig. 9b, the catheter can have sufficient
length to allow distal tip 63 to be positioned in the brain, while apparatus
 10 is placed on the scalp or other location outside the skull.
[0059]       In some embodiments, apparatus 10 can include multiple
catheters 60 so as to allow for the delivery medication pellets 100 at
multiple locations using a single delivery apparatus 10. For example, in
an embodiment shown in Fig. 9c, the distal tip 63 of a first catheter 60'
can be placed at first delivery site DS1 and the distal tip 63 of a second
                                       23

catheter 60" can be placed a second delivery site DS2. In an embodiment
shown in Fig. 9d, the first delivery site DS1 can comprise the ultimate
target site TS such as an arthritic knee joint KJ (or other arthritic joint) to
allow for immediate delivery of medication to that site and the second
catheter distal tip can be placed at a second site DS2 at least partially
removed from first site DS1 such as in muscle tissue M or other sub
dermal location to allow for longer term controlled release of the drug.
[0060]       Referring now to Figs. 10a-10d, pusher plate 70 is used
disengage the pellet 100 from the mechanism 50 and push or advance
the pellet into the catheter lumen 61 and out to the delivery site DS. In
one embodiment, pusher plate 70 can be coupled to a drive source 71 via
a shaft 72. In another embodiment, it may also be coupled to one or
more drive source 54 described herein. In a particular embodiment
pusher plate 70 can comprise a piezo-electric plate that is mechanically
actuable through use of voltage from power source 55. As an alternative
to pusher plate 70 or in combination with it, other pellet advancement
means can include use of a liquid coupled to a miniature pump (not
shown) which develops sufficient pressure for the liquid to carry the pellet
out of the elongate member. The liquid can be taken from a reservoir
(not shown) or in some embodiments can be drawn from the body itself
(e.g., from interstitial fluid, or blood in the surrounding delivery drawn in
through catheter 60 or a separate inlet catheter not shown) via means of
a miniature peristaltic pump which never makes direct contact with the
 liquid. For embodiments using catheter 60 as an inlet, the pump can be
configured to pump in an inward direction to draw in the fluid for
discharging the pellet, and then in an outward direction for discharging or
ejecting the pellet into the delivery site. One or more valves can be
 positioned in the proximal portions of catheter 60 to facilitate this
 process. Such embodiments can be used in combinations with pusher
 plate 70 where the pusher plate advances pellet 100 into the catheter 60
                                        24

and then the pressurized liquid is used to advance the pellet out of the
catheter.
[0061]        In still other alternative embodiments, pusher plate 70 can
use electromotive force to manipulate pellet 100. Referring now to Fig.
10e, in specific embodiments, pusher plate 70 can use an electromagnetic
attractive force to engage pellet 100 from carrier member 51 and an
electromagnetic repulsive force to advance pellet 100 out of catheter or
other elongate member 60. This can be achieved by imparting an
electrostatic charge 100es to pellet 100 using charging circuitry coupled
to power source 54 and coupling pusher plate 70 to electrical power
source 54 so that plate 70 functions as an electrode 70e with the same
polarity as the charge on pellet 100 and then changing the polarity (using
circuitry within controller 80) to repel the pellet from plate 70 with
sufficient electromotive force to advance the pellet out of catheter 60.
This process can be facilitated by filling catheter 60 with saline or other
conductive solution which acts to conduct the repulsive charge from plate
70 through all or a portion of catheter lumen 61. In this way, the entire
 lumen of catheter 60 can function as a repulsive electrode to increase the
 repulsive forces for ejecting pellet 100 from catheter 60 and thus place
the pellet at greater distances in the delivery site from catheter distal tip
 63. The charge on pellet 100 can be achieved by coating the pellet with
 an electrically insulating material so that it holds a charge on its surface.
 In an alternative approach for applying a charge on pellet 100, the pellet
 can include a permanently charged coating such as a coating comprising
 one or more ionic species (phosphate, sulfate and like groups) which are
 covalently bound to the surface of the pellet. The amount of repulsive
 force applied to pellet 100, can be controlled by the amount of voltage
 applied to plate 70 from power source 54. The amount of voltage can be
 controlled through various power control circuitry 55c coupled or resident
 within controller 80 such as a dc-dc converter or dc-ac converter.
                                         25

[0062]       Referring now to Fig. 11, in many embodiments, apparatus 1u
can include a controller 80 for controlling one or more aspects of the
medication delivery process including actuation and control of mechanism
60. The controller can comprise logic resources 81 such as a
microprocessor, a state device or both; and memory resources 82 such as
RAM, DRAM, ROM, etc. Logic resources 81 and/or memory resources 82
may include one or more software modules 83 for operation of the
controller 83. Through the use of modules 83, the controller 80 may be
programmed to include a medication delivery regimen wherein medication
is delivered at regular intervals (e.g., once or twice a day, etc) over an
extended period. The controller may also include an RF device 84 for
receiving a wireless 85 signal (e.g., wireless or otherwise) to initiate the
delivery of medication or to change the delivery regimen (e.g., from once
a day to twice a day). In this way, the patient or a medical care provider
can control the delivery of medication in response to a specific event
(e.g., an episode of angina) or longer term changes in the patient's
condition or diagnosis.
[0063]       The controller 80 can receive inputs 86 from apparatus sensor
64 or a remote sensor 64r which senses a physiologic parameter .
indicative of a condition to be treated by the medication pellet 100, e.g.,
diabetic hyperglycemia. When the controller 80 receives an input 86
indicative of the condition, it sends a signal 88 to initiate the delivery of
one or more medication pellets 100 to the target tissue site so as to treat
the medical condition. Both the initial and subsequent inputs from sensor
64 can be used to titrate the delivery of medication pellets over an
extended period until the condition is dissipated or otherwise treated in a
selected manner. The controller 80 can also receive inputs 87 from other
sensors 69 which are configured to measure the plasma or other tissue
concentration of the delivered drug. These inputs 87 can also be used to
titrate the delivery of the drug to achieve a selected concentration of
 drug. The concentration sensors 69 can be positioned both at the
                                        26

delivery site DS, the target site TS as well as other sites in the body (e.g.,
a vein or artery) in order to develop a pharmacokinetic model of the
distribution of the drug at multiple sites in the body.
[0064]       In various method embodiments of the invention, apparatus
10 is used to deliver pellets or other solid form medication 100 to a
selected delivery site DS such as subcutaneous tissue where they are
disintegrated and absorbed by body tissue fluids (e.g., interstitial fluids in
muscle or dermal tissue) so as to produce a desired concentration of drug
110 at a target site TS. In some applications, the delivery site DS can be
in the same organ and/or compartment as the target site TS, for example
the brain as is shown in the embodiment of Fig. 12a. In others, the
target site can be different from the delivery site as is shown in the
embodiment of Fig. 12b. For example in one embodiment, the delivery
site can be intramuscular tissue in the chest and the target site can be an
organ such as the heart which is removed from the delivery site. The
delivery site can be oppositional to the target site, for example dermal
delivery to reach the target site of underlying muscle tissue, or it can be
placed at a non-oppositional site, for example, intramuscular delivery to
reach the target site of the heart. In each case, the medication pellet 100
can include a selected dose of drug and be configured to disintegrate and
be dissolved by body tissue fluids so as to yield a therapeutically effective
concentration of the drug at the target tissue site. In many applications,
this involves the pellet being dissolved by body tissue fluids at the
delivery site (e.g., interstitial fluids) where the drug then diffuses from
the tissue into the blood stream where it is carried to the target tissue
site. Accordingly, in these and other applications, the dose of the drug in
the pellet can be titrated to achieve a selected plasma concentration of
the drug (or concentration range) for a selected period during and after
 dissolution of the pellet.
 [0065]       In some embodiments, pellet 100 is configured to disintegrate
 and be dissolved by the tissue fluids within a body compartment such as
                                          27

the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the brain so as to achieve a selected
concentration in the tissue fluid within that compartment as is shown in
the embodiment of Fig. 12a. In particular embodiments for treating
various neural disorders such as epileptic and other seizures, the pellet is
configured to rapidly disintegrate and be dissolved in the CSF so as to
rapidly achieve a selected concentration of the drug throughout the CSF
that bathes the brain in order to prevent the occurrence of the seizure or
 lessen its duration and severity. This can be achieved through the use of
one or more super-disintegrants which are compounded into pellet 100.
 [0066]       Referring now to Figs. 13-16, accelerated pellet disintegration
can also be achieved by treating the pellet prior to or after delivery with
 mechanical, electromagnetic, acoustical or other energy to weaken the
 pellet structure, create cracks for the ingress of fluids or initiate the
 breakup of the pellet into smaller pieces. As is shown in Figs. 13a-13b,
the delivery of force and energy can be used to create cracks 105 (or
 other surface defects) for the ingress of tissue fluids as well as break the
 pellet up into smaller pieces 106. In one embodiment this can be
 achieved from a mechanical compressive force CF applied by the carrying
 member and/or sleeve 52 as is shown in the embodiment of Fig. 14.
 [0067]       In other embodiments, energy can be delivered to the pellet
 100 while it is still in the apparatus 10 to create cracks 105 and weaken
 the pellet structure as is shown in Fig. 15. Energy delivery can be
 achieved through use of an acoustical energy device 90 such as an
 ultrasonic transducer with the ultrasonic frequency configured for a
 resonant frequency of the pellet. Acoustical or other energy device 90
 can be coupled to an energy source 91, which can include various
 electrical power sources. In another embodiment shown in Fig. 16,
 energy can be delivered to the pellet after it is ejected from catheter 60
 and delivered to delivery site DS. In this embodiment, energy delivery
 can be achieved through use of an ultrasonic transducer or other energy
 delivery device 90 placed on catheter distal tip 63. Ultrasonic transducer
                                        28

90 emits a beam of energy 93 which acts upon pellet 100 to cause cracks
105 and other effects to the pellet structure to accelerate pellet
degradation into pieces 106 and disintegration through dissolution by
body tissue fluids. Other forms of energy which can be used to break up
the structure of pellet 100 and accelerate disintegration/degradation
include optical (e.g., laser), RF, microwave, thermal or other forms of
energy known in the medical device arts. The energy delivery regimen
(e.g., duration, frequency and amount of energy) for weakening the pellet
structure (e.g.,,causing cracks etc.) can be controlled by controller 80.
The energy delivery regimen can be adjusted depending upon the size
and structure properties of the pellet as well as the particular delivery site
DS. In various embodiments, energy delivery device 90 can be powered
by power source 54 or have its own power source.
 [0068]       In various applications, embodiments of the invention can be
used to deliver pellets 100 or solid form medication to provide treatment
for a number of medical conditions including epileptic seizures (e.g., by
use of Furosemide) , high blood pressure (e.g., by use of calcium channel
blockers, CCBs), elevated cholesterol (e.g., by use of LIPITOR), diabetes
 (e.g., by use of insulin), coronary arrhythmia's (both atrial and
ventricular, e.g., by use of CCBss), coronary ischemia (e.g., by use of
 nitroglycerin or other vasodilating agent), or cerebral ischemia, heart
 attack or stroke (e.g., by use of aspirin, TPA or other hemolytic agent),
 anemia (e.g., by use of ferric-pyrophosphate) or other like conditions.
 Further embodiments of the invention can be used to provide concurrent
treatment for two or more of these or other conditions eliminating the
 need for the patient to take multiple doses of different drugs (e.g., orally
 or by parenteral means) over the course of a day. This is particularly
 beneficial to patients who have long term chronic conditions including
 those who have impaired cognitive or physical abilities.
 [0069]       Conclusion
                                        29

[0070]        The foregoing description of various embodiments of the
invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description.
It is not intended to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed.
Many modifications, variations and refinements will be apparent to
practitioners skilled in the art. For example, embodiments of the
apparatus can be sized and otherwise adapted for various pediatric and
neonatal applications.
[0071]        Elements, characteristics, or acts from one embodiment can
be readily recombined or substituted with one or more elements,
characteristics or acts from other embodiments to form numerous
additional embodiments within the scope of the invention. Moreover,
elements that are shown or described as being combined with other
elements, can, in various embodiments, exist as stand-alone elements.
 Hence, the scope of the present invention is not limited to the specifics of
the described embodiments, but is instead limited solely by the appended
claims.
                                        30

Claims:
      1.     A method for delivering a solid form medication comprising a
drug, the method comprising:
      storing a solid form medication within a container in the body of a
patient for an extended period without substantial degradation or
deleterious effect to the medication, wherein the medication comprises a
drug for the treatment of a disease or condition; and
      delivering the solid form medication from the container to a delivery
site within the body so as to produce a therapeutic effect at a target
tissue site for the treatment of the disease or condition.
      2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the deleterious effect
comprises a loss of potenty or therapeutic effectiveness of the drug.
      3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the medication is in pellet
form.
      4.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
      dissolving the delivered solid form medication at the delivery site to
yield a therapeutically effective amount of the drug at the target tissue
site.
       5.    The method of claim 4, wherein the rate of disintegration of
the solid form medication at the delivery site is enhanced through the use
of a disintegration enhancing feature in or on the solid form medication.
       6.    The method of claim 4, further comprising:
       determining a degradation state of the delivered solid form
 medication; and
       delivering another dose of solid form medication responsive to the
determined degradation state.
                                      31

       7.    The method of claim 6, wherein the degradation state is
determined using one of an optical, acoustical, or impedance sensor.
       8.    The method of claim 6, wherein the degradation state is
determined by sending and receiving a signal from the delivered solid
form medication.
       9.    The method of claim 8, wherein the signal is one of an optical,
acoustic or electrical signal.
       10.   The method of claim 6, wherein the degradation state is
combined with another parameter in determining whether to deliver
another dose of medication.
        11.  The method of claim 10, wherein the other parameter is an in
vivo concentration of the drug.
        12.  The method of claim 11, wherein the in vivo concentration is
that at the delivery site, a target site, in blood or in cerebrospinal fluid.
        13.   The method of claim 10, wherein the other parameter is a
dose frequency, a physiological parameter or a physiological parameter
 indicative of a medical condition or the onset of a medical condition.
        14.   The method of claim 1, wherein the medication comprises a
 pharmaceutical excipient.
        15.   The method of claim 14, wherein the excipient comprises a
 disintegrant configured to control a rate of disintegration of the solid
 medication at the delivery site.
        16.   The method of claim 14, wherein the excipient comprises a
 super disintegrant configured to accelerate a rate of disintegration of the
 solid medication at the delivery site.
        17.   The method of claim 1, further comprising
                                        32

       delivering energy to the solid form medication to enhance a rate ot
disintegration of the solid form medication at the delivery site.
       18.   The method of claim 17, wherein the energy comprises
thermal, electromagnetic, radiofrequency, acoustic or optical energy.
       19.   The method of claim 17, wherein the delivered energy
produces structural defects in the solid form medication which enhance
ingress of body tissue fluids into the medication.
       20.   The method of claim 17, wherein the energy is delivered after
the solid form medication is delivered to the delivery site.
       21.   The method of claim 1, wherein the target tissue site is at a
different location from the delivery site.
       22.    The method of claim 21, wherein the target tissue site is non
appositional to the delivery site
       23.    The method of claim 1, wherein the delivery tissue site is the
 brain, spinal cord, skeletal muscle, heart, lungs, liver, uterus, ovaries,
testes, arteries, veins, prostate, blood, skin, thyroid gland, bone marrow,
 or kidney.
        24.   The method of claim 1, wherein the extended period is up to
 about one year.
        25.   The method of claim 1, wherein the extended period is up to
 about five years.
        26.   The method of claim 1, wherein delivering the solid form
 medication to the delivery site comprises transferring the solid form
 medication from the container to an outer chamber and through an
 opening in the outer chamber.
                                       33

       27.   The method of claim 26, wherein the opening comprises the
lumen of an elongate member, and delivering the solid form medication to
the delivery site comprises delivering the solid form medication through
the elongate member lumen to the delivery site.
       28.   The method of claim 27, wherein the elongate member has
sufficient length to deliver to solid form medication to a different tissue
location than the location of the container.
        29.  The method of claim 26, wherein the solid form medication is
delivered from the container to the outer chamber using a drive source.
        30.   The method of claim 29, wherein the drive source comprises a
 linear inductance motor, a piezo-electric material, a solenoid, a shape
 memory wire, a fluidic drive source or a thermal drive source.
        31.   The method of claim 1, wherein the solid form medication is
delivered at regular intervals.
        32.   The method of claim 31, wherein the interval is a daily,
weekly or monthly interval.
        33.   The method of claim 1, wherein the solid form medication is
 delivered in response to a sensed biological parameter.
        34.   The method of claim 33, wherein the sensed biological
 parameter is predictive of a medical condition, a neurological seizure or
 an epileptic seizure.
        35.   The method of claim 1, wherein an interior of the container
 remains substantially isolated from the environment of the body during
 the extended period.
        36.   The method of claim 1, further comprising
        implanting the container at the delivery site in the body.
                                        34

      37.    The method of claim 36, wherein at least a portion or  tne
container is conformable, the method further comprising:
      conforming the container to a shape of the delivery site.
      38.    The method of claim 36, wherein the container is implanted
using minimally invasive methods.
      39.    The method of claim 1, wherein the drug comprises
Furosemide.
      40.    The method of claim 1, wherein the drug comprises insulin.
      41.    The method of claim 1, wherein the drug comprises a
vasodilating agent.
       42.   A method for delivering a solid form medication comprising a
drug for the treatment of an epileptic seizure, the method comprising:
       storing a solid form medication within a container implanted in the
skull of a patient for an extended period without substantial degradation
or deleterious effect to the medication, wherein the medication comprises
a drug for the treatment of an epileptic seizure; and
       delivering the solid form medication from the container to a delivery
site within brain tissue so as to prevent an epileptic seizure or decrease
the severity or duration of an epileptic seizure.
       43.    The method of claim 42, wherein the medication is in pellet
form.
       44.    The method of claim 42, wherein the drug comprises
Furosemide.
       45.    The method of claim 42, further comprising:
       rapidly dissolving the delivered solid form medication within the
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the brain to achieve a selected concentration
                                       35

of the drug within the CSF to prevent the epileptic seizure or lessen tne
severity or duration of the epileptic seizure.
       46.    The method of claim 42, wherein the solid form medication is
delivered in response to a sensed biological parameter predictive of an
epileptic seizure.
       47.    An apparatus for solid drug delivery to a target tissue site
within the body of a patient, the apparatus comprising:
       a first chamber including a first opening;
       a second chamber substantially surrounding the first chamber and
including a second opening;
       a carriage disposed in the first chamber, the carriage configured to
hold a plurality of medication elements, the medication element
comprising at least one drug;
       a mechanism including a carrying member configured to receive a
medication element from the carriage, transfer the element outside the
first chamber through the first opening and return inside the first
chamber;
       an elongate member having a lumen and a proximal and distal end,
the lumen sized to receive the medication element, at least a portion of
the elongated member positioned in the second chamber; and
       a pusher plate for disengaging the element from the mechanism
and pushing the element through the lumen of the elongate member.
       48.    The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the medication element
comprises a pellet.
       49.    The apparatus of claim 47, wherein at least a portion of the
apparatus includes a biocompatible coating.
                                        36

       50.   The apparatus of claim 49, the least a portion comprises a
surface of the second chamber.
       51.   The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the biocompatible coating
comprises a silicone, a polyurethane or a fluoropolymer.
       52.   The apparatus of claim 47, wherein, the distal end of the
lumen extends through the second chamber opening.
       53.   The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the carrying member
includes a slot for holding the medication element.
       54.   The apparatus of claim 53, wherein slot substantially aligns
with an opening in the carriage from which the medication element exits.
       55.   The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the pusher plate includes
an advanceable shaft.
       56.   The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the carriage is spring
loaded.
       57.   The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising a drive source
coupled to the pusher plate.
       58.   The apparatus of claim 57, wherein the drive source
 comprises an electric drive source, a linear induction motor or a solenoid.
       59.   The apparatus of claim 57, wherein the drive source
 comprises a shape memory wire or a heat actuated shape memory wire.
       60.   The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the mechanism further
 comprises a slidable member disposed over the carrying member, the
 slidable member configured to slide over the carrying member to hold the
 element in place.
                                      37

      61.    The apparatus of claim 60, further comprising at least one
bearing positioned between the carrying member and the slidable
member.
      62.    The apparatus of claim 60, wherein the slidable member is
coaxially disposed over the carrying member.
      63.    The apparatus of claim 60, wherein at least one of the slidable
member or the carrying member is driven by an electromagnetic force.
      64.    The apparatus of claim 60, further comprising a drive source
coupled to at least one of the carrying member or the slidable member,
the drive source configured to advance at least one of the carrying
member or the slidable member.
      65.     The apparatus of claim 64, wherein the drive source
comprises an electromechanical drive source, a linear induction motor, a
solenoid or a shape memory wire.
      66.    The apparatus of claim 64, wherein the drive source
comprises a shape memory wire or a heat actuated shape memory wire.
      67.    The apparatus of claim 64, wherein the drive source
comprises a mechanical drive source or a spring.
      68.    The apparatus of claim 64, wherein the drive source
comprises an expandable gas.
      69.    The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the elongate member is a
catheter having a lumen sized to receive the medication element.
      70.    The apparatus of claim 69, wherein the catheter includes an
atraumatic distal tip.
      71.    The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising an energy
delivery device coupled to the second chamber or the elongate member,
                                      38

the energy delivery device configured to deliver energy to the medication
element to enhance a rate of disintegration of the medication element by
body tissue fluids.
       72.    The apparatus of claim 71, wherein the energy comprises
thermal, electromagnetic, radiofrequency, acoustic or optical energy.
       73.    The apparatus of claim 71, wherein the energy delivery device
is positioned proximate the distal end of the elongate member.
       74.    The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the mechanism forms a
seal with the first opening to isolate the first chamber from the
environment of the body.
       75.    The apparatus of claim 74, wherein the seal is substantially
maintained during movement of the mechanism.
       76.    An apparatus for solid drug delivery to a target tissue site, the
apparatus comprising:
       a first chamber including a first opening;
       a second chamber substantially surrounding the first chamber and
including a second opening;
       a carriage disposed in the first chamber, the carriage configured to
 hold a plurality of solid form medication elements, the medication
 elements comprising at least one drug;
       a mechanism configured to transfer a medication element from the
first chamber to the second chamber;
       an elongate member having a lumen and a proximal and distal end,
the lumen sized to receive the medication element, at least a portion of
the elongated member positioned in the second chamber; and
                                       39

       a means for disengaging the medication element from the
mechanism and advancing the medication element through the lumen of
the elongate member.
       77.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the mechanism is
configured to receive the medication element from the carriage, transfer
the medication element outside the first chamber through the first
opening and return inside the first chamber.
       78.   The apparatus of claim 77, wherein the mechanism includes a
carrying member for receiving and transferring the medication element.
       79.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the solid form medication
element comprises a pellet.
       80.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the distal end of the
 elongate member lumen extends through the second chamber opening.
       81.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the second chamber
 comprises a conforming material sufficiently conforming to allow body
tissue to reshape the surface of the second chamber after periods of
 extended implantation.
       82.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the means for engaging
 and advancing the medication element comprises a mechanically
 advanceable plate.
       83.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the means for engaging
 and advancing the medication element comprises a reversable polarity
 electrode.
       84.   The apparatus of claim 83, wherein the reversible polarity
 electrode comprises at least one of a plate or at least a portion of the
 elongate member.
                                      40

        85.    The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the means for engaging
and advancing the medication elrent comprises the elongate member of
claim 76 which is further configured for peristaltic contraction upon the
application of an electric voltage.
         86.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the means for engaging
and advancing the medication element comprises the elongate member of
claim 76 which is further configured for peristaltic contraction upon the
application of heat.
         87.   The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the outer chamber
comprises a conforming material sufficiently conforming to allow body
tissue to reshape the surface of the outer chamber after periods of
extended implantation.
         88.   A solid form medication for delivery within the body of a
 patient, the medication comprising at least one drug for the treatment of
a disease or condition, wherein the.medication has a shape and material
 properties.so as to be: (i) be stored in a container implanted within the
 body for an extended period without substantial degradation or
 deleterious effect to the medication, (ii) delivered to a delivery site, and
 (iii) dissolve in tissue'fluids at the delivery site to produce a therapeutic
 effect at a target tissue site to treat the disease or condition.
         89.   The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
 is configured to be delivered by the apparatus of claim 47.
         90.   The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
 is configured to be delivered by the apparatus of claim 76.
         91.    The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
 comprises a pellet;
                                          41

      92.    The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
comprises a plurality of drugs.
      93.    The solid form medication of claim 92, wherein the plurality of
drugs are for the treatment of multiple conditions.
      94.    The solid form medication of claim 92, wherein the plurality of
drugs are for the treatment of HIV AIDS.
      95.    The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
comprises at least one of a disintegrant or a super-disintegrant.
      96.    The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
includes a feature for enhancing a rate of disintegration of the medication
at the delivery site.
      97.     The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the
medication includes indicia for determining a degradation state of the
delivered medication.
      98.    The solid form medication of claim 97, wherein the indicia
comprise optical indicia.
      99.    The solid form medication of claim 98, wherein the indicia
comprise a pattern or a crisscross pattern.
       100. The solid form medication of claim 98, wherein the indicia
comprise an optically reflective coating.
       101. The solid form medication of claim 97, wherein the indicia
comprise an acoustically reflective coating.
       102. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
is configured such that a rate of disintegration of the medication at the
delivery site is enhanced by the application of energy to the medication.
                                      42

       103. The solid form medication of claim 102, wherein the energy
comprises mechanical, thermal, electromagnetic, radiofrequency, acoustic
or optical energy.
       104. The solid form medication of claim 102, wherein the applied
energy produces structural defects in the solid form medication which
enhance ingress of body tissue fluids into the medication.
       105. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of a neurological seizure or epilepsy.
       106. The solid form medication of claim 105, wherein the drug
comprises furosemide.
       107. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of diabetes.
       108. The solid form medication of claim 107, wherein the drug
comprises insulin.
       109. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of high blood pressure.
       110. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of coronary ischemia or a heart attack.
       111. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of an arrhythmia.
       112. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of high cholesterol.
       113. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a drug for the treatment of a stroke or cerebral ischemia.
       114. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise an antibiotic.
                                     43

      115. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise an antiviral compound, an antiviral compound for the treatment
of HIV aids or a protease inhibitor.
      116. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the drug
comprise a vaccine or an antibody.
      117. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
includes an electrically insulative coating configured to allow a surface of
the medication to acquire and hold an electrostatic charge.
      118. The solid form medication of claim 88, wherein the medication
includes an electrically charged coating.
      119. The solid form medication of claim 118, wherein the coating
comprises one of an ionic species, an ionic sulfate group or an ionic
phosphate group.
                                      Incube Labs, LLC
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                        44

                                          1/22
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          100
              63
              60          35                                               10
                                            21
              61                                40
                                                100
                                                                 50             31
              62
               51e                                                              30
               70
                                    51h                    52
                                           51                         54
               72
                                                                20c
                     71
                                                      20
                                                                      21
                               21
                                          FIG. 1

                           2/22
<removed-date>
                    100
                                          120
<removed-apn>
                                                100s
                                          110
                          FIG. 2A
                                    101
              100
                                                104
                           102
                                                103
                                    103
                          FIG. 2B

                                         3/22
<removed-date>           67
                                         68
                                       100a
                  100c                                          100c
<removed-apn>
                                                    100c
              100c                                                   100c
                  100c                                          100c
                                 100
                                                   100a
                                        FIG. 2C
                                                            40
                           100
                                                                 41
                                              41
                                                45
                                        FIG. 3A

                                    4/22
<removed-date>                                                    42
                                                                         40
<removed-apn>
                                                                         43
                                                               100
                                   FIG. 3B
                                                                    20
                                    40
                                                     55
                                    100       50
                  51e             51s          52e
              51dp      45
                   25                        52
                             51   53                      54
                                    FIG. 4

                               5/22
<removed-date>
                                                   20
                   61
                                40
<removed-apn>
              60
                                        50
                             51s             52e
               51e
                 70
                                        52
                        51                    54
               72
                              FIG. 5A
                                                   20
                   61
                                40
              60
                                        50
                              51
                   70
                                        52
                        100                   54
                             FIG. 5B

                               6/22
<removed-date>
                                                             20
                         61
                                   40
<removed-apn>
                    60
                                                  50
                                                       52e
                         70
                              52
                                        51              54
                              FIG. 5C
                                                             20
                                   40
                    60
                                             50
              51e
                              52             52e
                                                        54
                     72
                              FIG. 5D

                          7/22
<removed-date>
                                                          20
                               40
<removed-apn>
                    60
                                         50
              51e
                          52             52e
                                                     54
                     72
                          FIG. 5E
                                                          20
                     61
                    60
                          52                   51e
                                    51               54
                     72
                          FIG. 5F

                          8/22
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                              20
               61
                           40
              60
                                   50   54
                                   52   52e
                    51
                         FIG. 5G

                                    9/22
<removed-date>
                                                           20
                         61
                                     40
<removed-apn>
                    60                           55
                                                50
                     51e
                       70
                                                52
                              51                      54
                     72
                                   FIG. 6A
                                                           20
                         61
                                     40
                    60                           55
              51e                    52
                                          52e
                              51                      54
                                   FIG. 6B

                                   10/22
<removed-date>
                                                         20
                         61
                                     40
<removed-apn>
                    60                            55
                                                  58
                                                        56
                     51e
                                                        59
                                             52
                              51                   57
                                   FIG. 7A
                                                         20
                         61
                                     40
                    60                            55
                                             58
              51e
                                                        56
                                                        59
                                                   57
                     72
                                   FIG. 7B

                           11/22
<removed-date>   100                     DS
                            63
              63t
                            64
<removed-apn>
              60           61                                 10
                                       40
                                                 50
               61                                        20
               70
                                                         54
                                100
                                                               30
                           71
                           FIG. 8A
                                      100c
                    100
                      67               68
                     66e                   66d, 66, 65
                      63
                    63t                     64
                                            61
                     60
                                           61            FIG. 8B

                          12/22
<removed-date>
                   10
<removed-apn>
              63
                        TS, DS
                         100
                                   B
                         FIG. 9A

                             13/22
<removed-date>
                        10
                   30
<removed-apn>
              63
                              100        DS, TS
                                     B
                             FIG. 9B

                                          14/22
<removed-date>                                Dermis
                                    DS1          100
                                                 63
<removed-apn>
                                    60             60
                                                                         10
                                                               50
              DS2         60                                      20
              100
                                            70       51   52
                                                                          30
                    TS
                                          FIG. 9C
                              DS2
                     100             M
                      60
                         10
                                            DS, KJ
                     60
                                          FIG. 9D

                              15/22
<removed-date>
                                                   10
                         61                         30
                                  40
                   60                         20
<removed-apn>
              51   100                   50
                    70
                     72
                   71
                              FIG. 10A
                                                   10
                         61                         30
                                  40
                   60                         20
              51                         50
                              FIG. 10B

                             16/22
<removed-date>
                                                  10
                        61                         30
                                 40
                   60                        20
<removed-apn>
              51                        50
                             FIG. 10C
                                                  10
                        61                         30
                                 40
                   60                        20
              51                        50
                    72
                             FIG. 10D

                                                        17/22
<removed-date>
                    100es, 100                                                                    10
                               63                                                                      30
                              61                            40
                                                                                             20
<removed-apn>
                              60
                          100es                                         50
              51, 51e
                                                                              59
                        70e, 70
                                                                         55        80
                         80             55c
                                        55
                                                        FIG. 10E
                                                           64r          TS
                                                   64            86
                                              86                        DS
                                    64                                             80
                                   87                                               88
                                                   83 81           83 82                     54
                                                           84
                                        Blood Vessel               85
                                                                                        FIG. 11

                        18/22
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                   B
                   TS
              DS
                           CSF
              100
                        FIG. 12A

                                 19/22
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                  Dermis
              10
                     DS           M
               60
                    100
              106                  Blood vessel
                          Blood flow
                                                  Organ
                                            TS
                                 FIG. 12B

                               20/22
<removed-date>
               100
<removed-apn>
                                 102
                      Pre Energy/Force Delivery
                              FIG. 13A
                                   105
                     105
                                                   106
              100
                      Post Energy/Force Delivery
                              FIG. 13B

                                                    21/22
<removed-date>                                                             50
                                          CF
                               52                                            52
<removed-apn>
              51                                       100          51
                                                     105
                                                                   53
                                                FIG. 14
                                                                             10
                          61
                         60
                                                      40                          20
                                    105                       50
                         100
                   51e
                          90                                 52
                          71                   51
                                    91
                                                FIG. 15

                               22/22
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                         105
                   100          100
                               93
                   63           90
                               61
                   60
                                                     10
                                      40
                                           50   20
                    61
                    70                          54
              72
                                                      30
                                FIG. 16

