                                     Abstract
The present invention aims to provide a table game monitoring system with
which it is possible to allow casinos to stop an ongoing game immediately when
something unexpected happens by administrating the whole game from the
start to the end of the game and during payoffs.
The card game monitoring system has: a game table (1) on which bettors (2)
put wagers (3) on betting areas (4); and a card shooter apparatus has a card
reading unit to read and record the number (rank) and suit of the cards (6); and
a control unit (7) to determine a winning hand according to a table game rules
based on information of numbers (ranks) and suits of the cards sequentially
read by the card reading unit (5); a monitor video camera system (8) to capture
positions of cards and to identify wagers (3) on each betting area (4) at the
game table (1); the control unit (10) has further processing function to check
whether wagers (3) with payoff (3W) move to a pool (12) of the winner (W) of
the bettors (2) determined by the card shooter apparatus (5) at the end of each
game.

   WO 2015/107902           PCT/JP2O1S/000171
[Fig. 1]
                  CC
         cr
                   LON
                       q~04

                                                  I
                                             Description
                    Title of Invention: CARD GAME MONITORING SYSTEM
     Technical Field
[0001]    The present invention relates to a table game monitoring system for a table game
      using playing cards from a shoe having multiple decks that have been shuffled together
      prior to the beginning of play in which bettors make wagers on betting areas of a game
      table in front of the bettors. This table game monitoring system monitors whether or
      not wagers of winning bettor(s) move to appropriate area of the winner(s).
      Background Art
[0002]    Baccarat and Black Jack are of the many live table games played in casinos or
      gaming establishments. These games use a standard deck of 52 playing cards and are
      usually dealt from a shoe having multiple decks (6 to 9 or 10 decks) that have been
      shuffled together prior to the beginning of play. When operating people (hereinafter
      "the dealer") in casinos deliver playing cards to a game table for plays in such games,
      any loss of cards or exchange of cards between bettors, etc. should not occur, and also
      wagers with payoffs must correctly go to the winners of the bettors after each game has
      ended.
[0003]    To assure fair games by preventing such loss or exchanges during games, the game
      tables in casinos should be administrated so that games at tables are played properly
      (i.e. there is no exchange of cards or any other accidental or fraudulent acts etc.) and
      wagers are correctly paid off to the winners. A system to monitor the game tables by
      camera is known and is disclosed in Patent Literature 1: (US Patent 6,582,301). This
      known system only monitors the table game and records whole games for later analysis
      if it is believed that some inappropriate act has occurred.
      Citation List
      Patent Literature
[0004]    PTL 1: US 6,582,301B
      Summary of Invention
     Technical Problem
[0005]    The present invention provides a real-time monitoring of the table game and enables
      the casino to stop an ongoing game immediately when something unexpected happens
     by administrating the whole game from the start to the end of the game.
[0006]    The present invention has been made in view of the above problem, and aims to
      provide a table game monitoring system with which it is possible to allow a casino to
      stop an ongoing game immediately when something unexpected happens by
      administrating the whole game from the start to the end of the game and during payoffs.

      Solution to Problem
[0007]    To solve the above conventional problems, the present invention provides the card
      game monitoring system having: a game table on which bettors make wagers on
     betting areas, a card shooter apparatus that is put on the game table and has a card
      reading unit that reads the number (rank) of the card and having a control unit to
      determine a winning hand according to a table game rules based on information of
      numbers of the cards sequentially read by the card reading unit and a monitor video
      camera system to capture positions of the card delivered from the card shooter
      apparatus to bettors and identify wagers on each betting area at the game table, the
      control unit has a processing function using the information of the monitor video
      camera system to determine: 1) head-count of the bettors playing each game by
      identifying the wagers on each betting area or cards delivered to bettors, 2) whether or
      not each bettor gets more than two cards from the card shooter apparatus, 3) each hand
      of the bettors and the dealer according to the information read by the card shooter
      apparatus using the information of head-count of the bettors according to the game
      rule, and 4) the winner(s) having the winning hand(s) in the game according to the
      game rule based on the information of the each hand of the bettors and the dealer,
      wherein the monitor video camera system further reads movements of wagers on the
      game table, and the control unit having further processing function to check whether
      wagers with payoffs move to the winner of the bettor determined by the card shooter
      apparatus at the end of each game.
[0008]    In the card game monitoring system, the control unit has further processing function
      to identify ranks of playing cards on the game table delivered by a dealer and to check
      and report whether ranks of cards are the same as the ones determined by the card
      shooter apparatus.
      Brief Description of Drawings
[0009]    [Fig. 1] Fig. 1 is a diagram schematically showing the entirety of a table game system
      according to an embodiment 1 of the present invention.
      [Fig. 2]    Fig. 2 is a diagram schematically showing the entirety of a table game system
      according to an embodiment 2 of the present invention.
      Description of Embodiments
[0010]    Embodiment 1 of the present invention will be described with reference to the
      attached drawings. Embodiment 1 of the present invention provides a card game
      monitoring system for playing Black Jack. In Fig. 1, the card game monitoring system
      has: a game table 1 on which bettors 2 make wagers by putting wagers 3 on betting
      areas 4; a card shooter apparatus that is put on the game table 1 and has a card reading
      unit that reads the number (rank) and suit of the cards 6 and having a control unit 7 to

                                                  a
      determine a winning hand according to a table game rule based on information of
      numbers (ranks) of the cards sequentially read by the card reading unit 5.
[0011]    A monitor video camera system 8 which has several cameras 9 is set above each
      game table 1 to capture the positions of cards 6 delivered from the card shooter
      apparatus 5 to bettors 2. The monitor video camera system 8 identifies wagers 3 on
      each betting area 4 at the game table 1, the control unit 10 has a processing function
      using the information of the monitor video cameras 9 to determine the following:
         1) head-count of the bettors playing on each game by identifying the positions of
      wagers on each betting area or cards delivered to each bettor 2 (three persons (heads)
      shown in fig. 1) ,
         2) number of cards delivered for each bettor 2 by dealer 11 from the card shooter
      apparatus 5 (whether or not each bettor 2 gets more than two cards).
[0012]    The control unit 10 has further processing function using information from the
      monitor video cameras 9 to determine each hand of the bettors 2 and the dealer 11
      according to the information read by the card shooter apparatus 5 using the information
      of the results of head-counting of the bettors 2 and according to the game rules
      installed in the control unit 7 of the card shooter apparatus 5. Then the control unit 7
      will determine the winner W having the winning hand on the game based on the
      information of the hands of the bettors 2 and the dealer 11.
[0013]    Wherein the card shooter apparatus 5 knows directions of each card (who gets each
      card read by the card shooter apparatus 5 through the monitor video camera system 8)
      and then the card shooter apparatus 5 (the control unit 7) will figure out by its
      programs the hands held by the bettors 2 and the dealer 11. The control unit 10 has
      further a processing function to check whether wagers 3 with payoffs 3W move to a
      pool 12 of the winner 2W of the bettors 2 determined by the card shooter apparatus 5
      at the end of each game (the movement M for the winners and L for loser in fig.1).
[0014]    The monitor video camera system 8 (with the control unit 10) has further processing
      function that identify ranks of playing cards 6 by analyzing pictures from the monitor
      video cameras 9 to determine each hand (number) of the bettors 2 on the game table
      delivered by a dealer 11 and checks whether suits and ranks of cards 6 are the same as
      the ones read and determined by the card shooter apparatus 5.
[0015]    The monitor video camera system 8 (the control unit 10) has further processing
      function that identifies total amounts of wagers 3 by counting chips on each betting
      area 4 of the bettors 2. Each total amount of wagers 3 are calculated by analyzing
      pictures from the monitor video cameras 9 of its colors and its height of chips on each
     betting areas 4. Special video cameras 9s for this purpose may be put around the game
      table 1 to take side views of the chips of wagers 3.
[0016]    Fig. 2 shows an example of Embodiment 2 of the present invention. Embodiment 2

      of the present invention provides a card game monitoring system for playing game
      (Baccarat). In Fig. 2, the card game monitoring system has: a game table 21 on which
     bettors 2 make wagers by putting wagers 3 on betting areas 24; a card shooter
      apparatus 25 that is put on the game table 21 and has a card reading unit that reads the
      number (rank) and suit of the cards 6 and having a control unit 27 to determine a
      winning hand according to a table game rule based on information of numbers (ranks)
      of the cards 6 sequentially read by the card shooter apparatus 25.
[0017]    A monitor video camera system 28 reads cards and movements of the wagers 3 on
      the game table. The control unit 27 of the card shooter apparatus 25 has processing
      functions to determine whether the winning hand is the Banker or the Player based on
      information of numbers (ranks) of the cards read by the a card shooter apparatus 25
      and Baccarat game rule in the control unit 27. A control unit 30 of the card game
      monitoring system having processing function to check whether wagers 3 with payoffs
      3W move to a pool 22 of the winners 2W of the bettors 2 after each game has ended.
[0018]    Wherein the card shooter apparatus 25 knows that place (Banker or Player) to which
      each card is delivered according to the game rule of Baccarat and then the card shooter
      apparatus 25 (with the control unit 27) will calculate each hand of Banker and Player.
      In this way the card shooter apparatus 25 determines whether a winning hand is the
      Banker or the Player. The control unit 30 has a further processing function to check
      whether wagers 3 with payoffs 3W move to a pool 22 of the winner 2W of the bettors
      2 determined by the card shooter apparatus 25 at the end of each game (the movement
      M for the winners and L for loser movement M in fig.2).
[0019]    The monitor video camera system 28 (with the control unit 30) has further processing
      function that identify ranks of playing cards 6 on the game table 21 delivered by a
      dealer 11 by analyzing pictures obtained from the monitor video cameras 29. This card
      game monitoring system checks whether suits and ranks of cards 6 are the same as the
      ones read and determined by the card shooter apparatus 25 and reports to an
      administration section of the casino the results of whether the suits and ranks of cards 6
      are the same as those delivered and read by the card shooter apparatus 25.
[0020]    The monitor video camera system 28 (the control unit 30) has further processing
      function that identify total amounts of wagers 3 by counting chips on each betting area
      24 of the bettors 2. Each total amount of wagers 3 is calculated by analyzing pictures
      from the monitor video cameras 29 of its colors and its height of chips on each betting
      areas 24. Special video cameras 29s for this purpose may be put around the game table
      21 to take side views of the chips of wagers 3.
[0021]    In both examples of Embodiment 1 and 2 the monitor video camera system 8 and 28
      can identify positions of wagers 3, the total amount of wagers 3 of its colors and its
      height of chips on each betting areas 4 and 24 by analyzing pictures taken by the video

                                                0
      cameras 9, 9s, 29 and 29s using CCD and through known technology of vision
      analysis. The monitor video camera system 8 and 28 can also identify positions of
      cards 3 and analyze the faces of cards showing in betting.
[0022]   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
      requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
      "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
      group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
      integers or steps.
     Annex 1
[0023]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the card shooter apparatus has
      further determination function of the card games when each game starts and ends
      according to the rules of Baccarat or Black Jack with monitoring video camera system.
     Annex 2
[0024]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has further
      processing function to check whether wagers do not move from the original betting
      position to the other area during the each game starts and ends (during each game).
     Annex 3
[0025]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has a
      determination function to determine when the betting starts before the start of each
      game (the betting start indicates the time the first bet is put on the betting area).
     Annex 4
[0026]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has a
      determination function to determine when the betting ends before the start of each
      game (the betting end indicates the time the first card is delivered from the card shooter
      apparatus). Also the control unit has a processing function using the information from
      the monitor video camera system to determine the movement of the dealer's hand
      representing the end of betting called "No more bet".
     Annex 5
[0027]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has a
      determination function to determine when the payoff has completed after the end of
      each game.
     Annex 6
[0028]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has a
      transmitting function to transmit the information of the monitor video camera to a
     backyard in casino.
     Annex 7
[0029]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has a deter-

      mination function to determine an error, and the card game monitoring system further
      has an output means to output an error signal by displaying and/or alarming in the card
      shooter apparatus and/or the related system components incorporated in the card game
      monitoring system as a result of the determination of the error. The error mentioned
      above includes at least one of the following items.
      1) The ranks of playing cards identified by the card game monitoring system on the
      game table delivered by the dealer are not same as the ones determined by the card
      shooter apparatus.
      2) Wagers have moved from the original betting position to other areas during each
      game.
      3) Wagers with payoffs have not moved to the winners of the bettors at the end of each
      game.
     Annex 8
[0030]   The card game monitoring system mentioned above, the control unit has a
      determination function to identify a cut card delivered from the card shooter apparatus.
[0031]   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
      requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
      "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
      group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
      integers or steps.
[0032]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
      an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
      common general knowledge in Australia.

                                      Claims
1.       A monitoring system for a game, comprising:
         a game table on which bettors place wagers on betting areas;
         a card shooter apparatus comprising a card reading unit that reads the
number (rank) of a card,
         a camera system to identify wagers on each betting area, and
         a control unit,
         wherein the control unit is configured to determine:
         1) the number of wagers and the positions of the wagers by utilizing an
output of the camera system,
         2) winner(s) of the game according to the game rules based on each
hand of the bettors and the dealer, and
         3) whether wagers do not move from the original betting position to the
other area during the each game starts and ends with monitoring video camera
system.
2.       The monitoring system according to claim 1, wherein the control unit is
configured to identify ranks of the cards on the game table dealt by the dealer
and to verify that the ranks of dealt cards are identical to the ranks of the
cards read by the card reading unit.
3.       The monitoring system according to claim 1, wherein the camera
system is configured to detect a direction of movement of wagers on the game
table, and wherein the control unit is configured to verify that the wagers with
payoffs move to the bettors with the winning hands at the end of each game.
4.       A card game monitoring system comprising:
         a game table on which bettors place wagers on betting areas associated
with either the Banker's hand or the Player's hand according to game rules;
         a card shooter apparatus configured to read the number of each card as
it is dealt;

                                         0
        a camera system configured to detect the wagers on the game table;
        a control unit configured to determine whether a winning hand of a
game is the Banker's or the Player's hand according to the game rules and the
numbers of the cards and
        wherein the control unit is further configured to verify whether wagers
do not move from the original betting position to the other area during the each
game starts and ends according to the rules of Baccarat with monitoring video
camera system.
5.       The card game monitoring system according to claim 4, wherein the
control unit is further configured to verify whether the payoffs are correctly
paid after each game has ended.
6.       The card game monitoring system according to claim 4, wherein the
control unit is further configured to identify the ranks of the cards on the game
table dealt by the dealer and to verify whether said ranks of the cards are the
same as those read by the card shooter apparatus.
7.       The card game monitoring system according to claim 4, wherein the
card shooter apparatus is configured to determine when a game starts.
8.       The card game monitoring system according to claim 4, wherein the
camera system is further configured to identify the cards.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
