                                            ABSTRACT
           A combined shower comprising a top shower head and a handheld shower head, a
   first magnetic piece, an elastic piece and a sealing structure is inside an assembly hub of the
   top shower head. The first magnetic piece can move under the action of the elastic force
 5 from the elastic piece and then makes the sealing structure shut off the outflow cavity of the
   top shower head. The second magnetic piece is fixed on the handheld shower head and the
   second magnetic piece is arranged magnetically opposite and facing the first magnetic piece.
   Under the action of the attraction force from the second magnetic piece, the first magnetic
   piece can overcome the elastic force from the elastic piece, moves in the opposite direction,
10 and makes the sealing structure connect the outflow cavity of the top shower head to the
   water inlet cavity.
                                                  32

                                                                                     P/00/01 1
                                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
          COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A STANDARD PATENT
                                      ORIGINAL
                      TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANT
Name of Applicant:            Hongxin LIN
Invention Title:              A Combined Shower
Address for Service:          A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                              PO Box 833, Blackwood, SA 5051
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to me/us:
                                              1

                                      A COMBINED SHOWER
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This    application    claims   benefit    of   Chinese    Patent   Application     No.
 5 CN<removed-apn>85.1, filed October 14, 2016.
           The applications and all patents, patent applications, articles, books, specifications,
   other publications, documents, and things referenced herein are hereby incorporated herein
   in their entirety for all purposes. To the extent of any inconsistency or conflict in the
   definition or use of a term between any of the incorporated publications, documents, or
10 things and the text of the present document, the definition or use of the term in the present
   document shall prevail.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Field of Invention
15         The present invention relates to the technical field of shower apparatus, and
   particularly to a combined shower.
   Related Art
           A shower apparatus is used for having a shower, and is a common device in shower
20 rooms. In the current marketplace, the common shower apparatus comprises a top shower
   head, a handheld shower head and a mounting seat for the inlet water. The mounting seat
   for the inlet water is fixed at a low position of the wall, and used to connect the inlet water
   pipes buried in the wall. The handheld shower head inserts into a fixation bracket and
   connects to the mounting seat for the inlet water through a soft hose. The top shower head
25 is arranged above the user, and connects to the mounting seat for the inlet water through
   another pipeline. Inside the mounting seat for the inlet water, a switch valve core is
                                                   2

   designed to switch connection-selections between the top shower head and the handheld
   shower head. The user can switch to either the top shower head or the handheld shower
   head by operating the switch valve. However, the existing shower apparatus comprises the
   fixation bracket, the top shower head, and additional structures like the rigid pipelines
 5 connecting the mounting seat for the inlet water and etc. And the longitudinal length is too
   long, having the issue of occupying a big space.
           One prior art shower apparatus combines a top shower head and a handheld shower
   head . The shower apparatus, a combination of a top shower head and a handheld shower
   head, comprises a top shower head having at least two spray patterns, as well as a handheld
10 shower head. The top shower head has a first water circuit which connects to the water
   supply with compatible inlet pipe and water pressure. The top shower head also has the
   second water circuit, and the handheld shower head connects to the second water circuit
   through an external soft hose. There is a switch mechanism designed on the top shower
   head. The switch mechanism works in coordination with the inlet pipe, the first water
15 circuit and the second water circuit, to achieve the water circuit switching. It can
   switch-select either water circuit to be connected to the water inlet pipe. The shower
   apparatus integrates the mounting seat for the inlet water to the fixation part of the top
   shower head, and attaches the handheld shower head to the surface of the fixation part of
   the top shower head with magnets. This removes the need of the fixation bracket used to fix
20 the handheld shower head and the rigid pipelines connecting the top shower head to the
   mounting seat for the inlet water in the existing shower apparatuses, shortens the
   longitudinal length of the shower apparatus, and reduces the space occupation of the
   shower apparatus.
           However, this shower apparatus integrates the whole structure around the top
25 shower head. Because the top shower head needs to be arranged above the user, the
   position is high. When it is required to switch the water passage, the user needs to manually
   turn the knob designed on the fixation part of the top shower head. This requires a tall
   stature of the user, so it is quite difficult to use. In addition, the handheld shower head is
   attached to the surface of the fixation part of the top shower head only by the attraction of
                                                    3

   magnets. The fixation is not very stable and easy to fall off.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            One objective of one embodiment of the present invention is to avoid the issues
 5 stated above in the prior art, and to provide a combined shower. The technical issue to be
   resolved is how to improve the convenience and stability of using the combined shower,
   while reducing the space occupation of the combined shower.
            The object of one embodiment of the present invention can be achieved by the
   following technical proposal:
10          A combined shower comprises a top shower head, a handheld shower head and an
   assembly hub which has a water inlet. The assembly hub has a water inlet cavity inside that
   connects to the water inlet. The outflow cavity of the handheld shower head connects the
   water inlet cavity through the water hose. It is characterized in that:
            Inside the assembly hub, there is also the first magnetic piece, an elastic piece and a
15 sealing structure which can connect or block the outflow cavity of the top shower head and
   the water inlet cavity. The first magnetic piece can move under the action of the elastic
   force from the elastic piece and then makes the sealing structure shut off the outflow cavity
   of the top shower head. A holder cavity to hold the handheld shower head is designed in
   front of the assembly hub as well. The second magnetic piece is fixed on the handheld
20 shower head and the second magnetic piece is arranged magnetically opposite and facing
   the first magnetic piece. Under the action of the attraction force from the second magnetic
   piece, the first magnetic piece can overcome the elastic force from the elastic piece, moves
   in the opposite direction, and makes the sealing structure connect the outflow cavity of the
   top shower head to the water inlet cavity.
25          When using one embodiment of the present combined shower, if the user needs to
   use the handheld shower head, they can hold the handle part of the handheld shower head,
   and take down the handheld shower head to wash the body. At this point, under the action
                                                   4

   of the elastic force from the elastic piece, the first magnetic piece inside the assembly hub
   moves and makes the sealing structure block the outflow cavity of the top shower head
   from the water inlet cavity. Hence, the top shower head does not spray water. When the top
   shower head needs to be used, the handheld shower head shall be put in the holder cavity in
 5 front of the assembly hub. Under the attraction force between the first magnetic piece and
   the second magnetic piece, the handheld shower head is fixed inside the holder cavity.
   Meanwhile, under the action of the attraction force from the second magnetic piece, the
   first magnetic piece overcomes the elastic force from the elastic piece, moves toward the
   front of the assembly hub, and makes the sealing structure connects the outflow cavity of
10 the top shower head to the water inlet cavity, so the water flows into the outflow cavity of
   the top shower head and then sprays out from the spray panel of the top shower head.
   During the usage of one embodiment of the present combined shower, the connection
   control over the water passage is achieved by taking down or hanging up the handheld
   shower head, without manually turning the switch knob on the top shower head. It does not
15 require a tall stature of the user and is easier to use. Meanwhile, with the attraction force
   between the first magnetic piece and the second magnetic piece, in coordination with the
   structure of the holder cavity, it is more stable to hold the handheld shower head.
           In the combined shower, there is also a water outlet cavity inside the assembly hub,
   and the water outlet cavity connects to the outflow cavity of the top shower head. The water
20 outlet cavity also connects to the water inlet cavity through the water passage port, and the
   water passage port faces forward. The sealing structure is arranged near the water passage
   port, and can open or close the water passage port when driven by the first magnetic piece.
   The water passage port faces forward, so that the sealing structure, the first magnetic piece
   and the elastic piece are arranged near the front part of the assembly hub. The attraction
25 force between the first magnetic piece and the second magnetic piece increases, without
   increasing the volumes of the first magnetic piece and the second magnetic piece. This
   makes the fixation of the handheld shower head more stable, and the movement of the first
   magnetic piece not easy to deviate, and ensures the working stability and reliability of the
   first magnetic piece and the sealing structure.
                                                    5

           In the combined shower, the sealing structure comprises a pressure control cavity
   located in the front area of the water passage port, and a sealing washer arranged between
   the pressure control cavity and the water outlet cavity. Under the action of the water
   pressures from the front and rear sides, the sealing washer can move back and forth. When
 5 the sealing washer moves backward, it can press against the end of the water passage port
   and form a seal. Punctured on the sealing washer, there is a through hole which can connect
   the water inlet cavity to the pressure control cavity, and a pressure release passage which
   can connect the pressure control cavity to the water outlet cavity. The minimum
   cross-sectional area of the pressure release passage is greater than that of the through hole.
10 Under the action of the elastic force from the elastic piece, the first magnetic piece can
   block the pressure release passage. When the handheld shower head is being used, the
   second magnetic piece along with the handheld shower head is taken down, and the first
   magnetic piece blocks the pressure release passage under the action of the elastic force
   from the elastic piece. The water in the water inlet cavity passes through the through hole,
15 enters into the pressure control cavity but is not able to flow out. Hence, the water pressure
   in the pressure control cavity in front of the sealing washer increases and drives the sealing
   washer to move backward to press against the end of the water passage port to form a seal.
   The water inlet cavity and the water outlet cavity are disconnected, and the top shower head
   does not spray water. Conversely, under the action of the attraction force from the second
20 magnetic piece, the first magnetic piece can overcome the elastic force from the elastic
   piece and moves away from the pressure release passage, so the water in the pressure
   control cavity flows into the water outlet cavity through the pressure release passage.
   Because the minimum cross-sectional area of the pressure release passage is greater than
   that of the through hole, the outflow rate of the water in the pressure control cavity is
25 greater than its inflow rate. Under the action of the water pressure from the water inlet
   cavity at the rear side, the sealing washer moves forward and opens the water passage port.
   The water in the water inlet cavity directly flows into the outflow cavity of the top shower
   head, through the water passage port and the water outlet cavity. If the switching is
   achieved by employing the First Magnetic Piece directly, the water pressure in the Water
30 Inlet Cavity may be too large so that the First Magnetic Piece is hard pressed against the
                                                   6

   Water Passage Port, allowing no opening for the flow. This requires increased suction force
   between the First Magnetic Piece and the Second Magnetic Piece to ensure the stability of
   the operation. However, using the construct of Pressure Control Cavity and Sealing Washer
   in conjunction with First Magnetic Piece, then, it is possible to use water pressure to open
 5 or close the Water Passage Port. Since the First Magnetic Piece is used to block only a
   smaller opening of the pressure relief channel, the need for magnetic attraction force
   between the First Magnetic Piece and the Second Magnetic Piece is reduced. So is the
   volume requirement of the First Magnetic Piece. This ensures the stability and reliability of
   the operation.
10         In the combined shower, the sealing structure also comprises a flow passage cavity
   located in front of the pressure control cavity, as well as a cylindrical pressure release
   cylinder. The pressure release cylinder is arranged along the front and back direction. The
   rear end of the pressure release cylinder enters into the water outlet cavity, and the front
   end of the pressure release cylinder passes through the pressure control cavity and connects
15 to the flow passage cavity. The sealing washer is sleeved over the outside of the pressure
   release cylinder and can move back and forth, along the pressure release cylinder. The
   sealing washer tightly presses against the pressure release cylinder and forms a seal. The
   pressure release passage comprises the flow passage hole which can connect the pressure
   control cavity to the flow passage cavity, and the pressure release hole which is located
20 inside the pressure release cylinder and connects the flow passage cavity to the water outlet
   cavity. Both hole diameters of the flow passage hole and the pressure release hole are
   greater than that of the through hole. The first magnetic piece is arranged inside the flow
   passage cavity, can press against the front end of the pressure release cylinder under the
   action of the elastic force from the elastic piece, and forms a seal. In addition, the design of
25 the flow passage cavity allows the water inside the pressure control cavity to flow through
   the water passage cavity and then enter into the water outlet cavity. This facilitates the
   arrangement of the first magnetic piece and the assembly. Meanwhile, the first magnetic
   piece is arranged inside the flow passage cavity, instead of the pressure control cavity,
   which not only can prevent the first magnetic piece from affecting the water pressure inside
30 the pressure control cavity, ensuring that the sealing washer can work stably under the
                                                   7

   water pressure inside the pressure control cavity, but also reduces the impact of water
   pressure on the movement of First Magnetic Piece, further reducing the magnitude
   requirement on the attraction force between the First Magnetic Piece and the Second
   Magnetic Piece, during the maneuver of the First Magnetic Piece.
 5          In the combined shower, a sealing part made of rubber material is fixed to the rear
   of the first magnetic piece, where it faces the pressure release hole. It is easy for the first
   magnetic piece made of magnetic material to deviate during the movement and hence
   affects the seal. Connecting a sealing part ensures the seal on the pressure release hole by
   the first magnetic piece.
10          In another case, in the combined shower, the sealing structure comprises a swinging
   plate hinged on the front part of the water passage port. The elastic piece comprises a
   torsion spring connected to the hinge point. Under the action of the elastic force from the
   torsion spring, the swinging plate can lean against the end of the water passage port and
   forms a seal. The first magnetic piece is connected to the front side or rear side of the
15 swinging plate. When the top shower head is not required to spray water, under the action
   of the elastic force from the torsion spring, the swinging plate can lean against the end of
   the water passage port and disconnects the water inlet cavity and the water outlet cavity.
   Conversely, under the action of the attraction force from the second magnetic piece, the
   first magnetic piece drives the swinging plate which is connected to it to swing forward,
20 and hence the water passage port opens, so the water in the water inlet cavity flows through
   the water passage port, enters into the water outlet cavity and flows into the outflow cavity
   of the top shower head.
            In another case, in the combined shower, the first magnetic piece is located in front
   of the water passage port. The elastic piece comprises a spring and the spring is arranged in
25 front of the first magnetic piece. The sealing structure comprises a sheet-like sealing piece.
   The sealing piece is fixed on the rear side of the first magnetic piece, and the sealing piece,
   along with the first magnetic piece can tightly press against the end of the water passage
   port and forms a seal, under the action of the elastic force from the elastic piece. In a water
   environment where the water pressure is low and the requirement on the attraction force
                                                  8

   between the first magnetic piece and the second magnetic pieces is low, blocking the water
   passage port may be directly achieved by the first magnetic piece in coordination with the
   sealing piece. The structure is simple.
           In the combined shower, the top shower head is of an arc shape and the gap is
 5 located in the lower part. The assembly hub is arranged at the rear side of the top shower
   head, and connects to the top shower head by the support bracket. The middle part of the
   top shower head forms a holder cavity for the placement of the handheld shower head, and
   the gap allows the handle part of the handheld shower head to pass through it. The outflow
   cavity of the handheld shower head can always keeps connected to the water inlet cavity, so
10 when the handheld shower head is put into the holder cavity, not only the outflow cavity of
   the top shower head connects to the water inlet cavity to allow the top shower head to spray
   water, but also the handheld shower head keeps spraying water. In coordination with the arc
   shape of the top shower head, the water spraying area is largely increased. Besides, by
   having the handle part of the handheld shower head pass through the gap at the lower part
15 of the top shower head, the position of the handheld shower head is further confined. This
   avoids its swing and improves the stability.
           In the combined shower, the projecting limit blocks are fixed on both sides of the
   top shower head, which are adjacent to the gap. The rear ends of the limit blocks can press
   against the front end of the handheld shower head inside the holder cavity. By the two
20 projecting limit blocks, in coordination with the attraction force between the first magnetic
   piece and the second magnetic piece, the handheld shower head is subject to forces at three
   points, so the fixation is more stable.
           In the combined shower, the elastic piece is a spring and the two ends of the spring
   press against the inner wall of the assembly hub and the first magnetic piece respectively.
25 By the means of the two ends of the spring pressing, the first magnetic piece is provided
   with a more stable action force, which ensures the working stability of the first magnetic
   piece.
           In the combined shower described above, the assembly hub includes a cylindrical
                                                 9

   shell having a cavity therein. inside the cavity, coaxially with the shell and from the front to
   the back, is provided with the mounting seat, the disc-shaped magnet seat and spool seat,
   the annular valve seat, and the cylindrical pressure cap connector. the mounting seat, the
   spool seat, the valve seat, and the cylindrical pressure cap connector are plugged together.
 5 both the magnet seat and the elastic piece are arranged in the mounting seat. at the rear of
   the pressure cap connector is provided with a connection fitting for water inflow and a back
   cap for joining the connection fitting to the pressure cap connector. the components within
   the assembly hub are coaxially set up and then plugged in an order to form an integral body.
   this not only facilitates the sealing and installation of the, but also makes the entire structure
10 more stable and less shaking during operation.
           In the combined shower described above, the rear end of the mounting seat is
   provided with an annular plug. the spool seat has an annular slot at the front end thereof.
   the plug is inserted into the slot. the rear end of the spool seat has several protruding
   cylindrical pins. the valve seat is provided with several holes at the front end thereof. these
15 matching pins are inserted into these holes. the edge of the sealing washer is pressed in
   between the spool seat and the valve seat. the rear end of the valve seat also has protruding
   columnar connection studs. the front end of the pressure cap connector has concave
   connection holes. the connection studs correspondingly insert into connection holes. a
   limiting slot for circumferentially limiting the valve seat is also provided in the axial
20 direction on the side of the valve seat. the pressure cap connector has an external thread at
   its rear end. the front end of the back cap has an internal thread and has a threaded
   connection with the pressure cap connector. the front end of the connection fitting is
   located inside the pressure cap connector and the back cap and the back end of the
   connection fitting extends backwards from the middle of the back cap and is the water inlet.
25 through the matched docking of plugs, slots, pins, holes, connection studs and connection
   holes, in conjunction with the thread connection between the pressure cap connector and
   the back cap, it is possible to further tighten the components of the entire structure as the
   back cap tightens along the threads, improving the sealing effect and the stability of the
   connection.
                                                    10

           In the combined shower described above, the first magnetic piece is fixed inside the
   magnet seat. the center of rear side of the first magnetic piece is connected with the two
   block-shaped sealing parts made of a rubber material. the two the sealing parts, with the
   larger one in the front and the smaller one in the rear, are superposed into a step shape. the
 5 stepped up sealing parts provides doubled sealing with improved sealing effect.
           In the combined shower described above, the rear side of the spool seat is recessed
   forward to form the pressure control cavity. the sealing washer is made of a rubber material
   and the sealing washer is provided at the opening of the pressure control cavity. the sealing
   washer can be deformed to the front or to the back by the action of hydraulic pressure.
10 sealing washer is made of rubber material which can easily deform, so that it is deformed
   during use instead of the entire sealing washer being moved back and forth, removing the
   chance of the sealing washer being blocked or jammed.
           In the combined shower, the valve seat has a flat outflow port, and the outflow port
   has the water outlet cavity. the water passage port is provided on the front side of the
15 outflow port and is opposed to the sealing washer. a part of the water inlet cavity is formed
   between the two sides of the outflow port and the inner wall of the valve seat. the water
   outlet cavity is communicated with the first outlet chamber of the top shower head through
   the water outlet; both ends of the outflow port extending to the side wall of the valve seat
   and communicating with the water outlet through a vent punctured through the wall of the
20 valve seat. the water flows through the space formed between the sides of the outflow port
   and the valve seat sidewall and exerts force on the sealing washer, making the sealing
   washer loaded under more even forces and, thus, easy to open. the above setup of the water
   inlet cavity and the provision of the vent make the whole structure more compact.
           Compared to the prior art, one embodiment of the present combined shower has the
25 following advantages:
           1. The handheld shower head achieves the water spraying switch by the attraction
   force between the first magnetic piece and the second magnetic piece, without additionally
   operating knobs or buttons at a high position. The usage is easier.
                                                 11

            2. The position restriction of the handheld shower head is achieved by the top
   shower head of an arc shape matching the handheld shower head of a roughly round shape,
   as well as the match between the gap and the handle part of the handheld shower head. In
   combination with the attraction force between the first magnetic piece and the second
 5 magnetic piece, and the position restriction by the two projecting limit blocks, the position
   of the handheld shower head is better fixed. This prevents the handheld shower head from
   falling off. The usage is more stable.
            3. The middle part of the top shower head of an arc shape is reserved as a holder
   cavity, the head part of the handheld shower head is put inside the holder cavity, and both
10 of the handheld shower head and the top shower head can spray water at the same time.
   This largely increases the water spraying area and improves the user experience.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Fig. 1 is a schematic view of a First Embodiment of the present combined shower.
15          Fig. 2 is a schematic view of a First Embodiment of the present combined shower
   from another angle of view.
            Fig. 3 is a sectional schematic view of a First Embodiment of the present combined
   shower.
            Fig. 4 is an enlarged view of the sealing structure of a First Embodiment of the
20 present combined shower where the Water Passage Port is closed.
            Fig. 5 is an enlarged view of the sealing structure of a First Embodiment of the
   present combined shower where the Water Passage Port is opened.
            Fig. 6 is a cross-sectional view taken along line A-A of the combined shower in Fig.
   3 after the Handheld Shower Head is removed.
25          Fig. 7 is a schematic structural view of the Top Shower Head in the present
   combined shower.
                                                   12

           Fig. 8 is a schematic structural view of the sealing structure of a Second
   Embodiment of the present combined shower.
           Fig. 9 is a schematic structural view of the sealing structure of a Third Embodiment
   of the present combined shower.
 5         Fig. 10 is a view showing the present combined shower during usage.
           Fig. 11 is an exploded structural view of Assembly Hub in a First embodiment of
   the present combined shower.
           Fig. 12 is a schematic structural view of Valve Seat in the Assembly Hub of the
   present combined shower.
10         FIG. 13 is an enlarged view of where the Handheld Shower Head shown in FIG. 3 is
   placed into the Top Shower Head.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The embodiments of this invention will be described below and the technical
15 solutions of the invention will be further illustrated in connection with the accompanying
   figures. However, the present invention shall not be limited to these embodiments.
            First Embodiment
           As shown in Fig. 1, Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, the present combined shower comprises a top
20 shower head (1), a handheld shower head (2) and an assembly hub (3) which has a water
   inlet (3a). The top shower head (1) has the First Outlet Chamber (1c). The handheld shower
   head (2) has the Second Outlet Chamber (2c). The assembly hub (3) has a water inlet cavity
   (3b) inside that connects to the water inlet (3a). The Second Outlet Chamber (2c) of the
   handheld shower head (2) always connects to the water inlet cavity (3b) through the water
25 hose (4).
           Here, inside the assembly hub (3), there is also the first magnetic piece (5), an
                                                 13

   elastic piece (6) and a sealing structure which can connect or block the First Outlet
   Chamber (1c) of the top shower head (1) and the water inlet cavity (3b). Without any
   effects of external forces, under the action of the elastic force from the elastic piece (6), the
   first magnetic piece (5) moves and makes the sealing structure block the the First Outlet
 5 Chamber (1c) of the top shower head (1) from the water inlet cavity (3b). A holder cavity
   (8) to hold the handheld shower head (2) is designed in front of the assembly hub (3) as
   well. The second magnetic piece (9) of a bulk shape is fixed on the area near the rear end of
   the handheld shower head (2) and the second magnetic piece (9) is arranged magnetically
   opposite and facing the first magnetic piece (5). Under the action of the attraction force
10 from the second magnetic piece (9), the first magnetic piece (5) can overcome the elastic
   force from the elastic piece (6), moves in the opposite direction, and connects the First
   Outlet Chamber (1c) of the top shower head (1) to the water inlet cavity (3b).
           In this embodiment, the handheld shower head (2) comprises a roughly round head
   part (2a) and a handle part (2b). The water hose (4) is a soft hose. The elastic piece (6) is a
15 spring and the two ends of the spring press against the inner wall of the assembly hub (3)
   and the first magnetic piece (5) respectively. Both of the first magnetic piece (5) and the
   second magnetic piece (9) are strong magnets. As shown in Fig. 5, the top shower head (1)
   is of an arc shape and the gap (la) is located in the lower part. The assembly hub (3) is
   arranged at the rear side of the top shower head (1) and in line with the center of the top
20 shower head (1). The assembly hub (3) connects to the top shower head (1) by the support
   bracket (10). The middle part of the top shower head (1) forms a holder cavity (8) for the
   placement of the head part (2a) of the handheld shower head (2), and the gap (la) allows
   the handle part (2b) of the handheld shower head (2) to pass through it. The projecting limit
   blocks (1b) are fixed on both sides of the top shower head (1), which are adjacent to the gap
25 (la). The rear ends of the limit blocks (lb) can press against the front end of the handheld
   shower head (2) inside the holder cavity (8), so as to limit the position of the handheld
   shower head (2).
           As shown in Fig. 4, Fig. 5, and Fig. 6, the assembly hub (3) also has a water outlet
   cavity (3c) inside. The water outlet cavity (3c) connects to the First Outlet Chamber (1c) of
                                                  14

   the top shower head (1) through the Water Outlet (10a). The Water Outlet (10a) is designed
   inside the support bracket (10). The water outlet cavity (3c) also connects to the water inlet
   cavity (3b) through a water passage port (3d), and the water passage port (3d) faces forward.
   The sealing structure is arranged in front of the water passage port (3d), the first magnetic
 5 piece (5) is arranged in front of the sealing structure, and the elastic piece (6) is arranged in
   front of the first magnetic piece (5). Under the action of the elastic force from the elastic
   piece (6), the first magnetic piece (5) can drive the sealing structure to open or close the
   water passage port (3d).
           Specifically, the sealing structure comprises a pressure control cavity (71) located in
10 the front area of the water passage port (3d), and a sealing washer (77) arranged between
   the pressure control cavity (71) and the water outlet cavity (3c). Under the action of the
   water pressures from the front and rear sides, the sealing washer (77) can move back and
   forth. When the sealing washer moves backward, it can press against the end of the water
   passage port (3d) and form a seal. On the sealing washer (77), there is a through hole (77a)
15 which can connect the water inlet cavity (3b) to the pressure control cavity (71), and a
   pressure release passage which can connect the pressure control cavity (71) to the water
   outlet cavity (3c). The minimum cross-sectional area of the pressure release passage is
   greater than that of the through hole (77a).
           As shown in Fig. 11 and Fig. 12, in the present embodiment, the Assembly Hub (3)
20 includes a cylindrical shell (11) formed integrally with the Support Bracket (10), and a
   Cavity (11 a) is provided in the shell (11). Inside the Cavity (11 a), coaxially with the Shell
   (11)  and from the front to the back, is provided with the Mounting Seat (11 b), the
   disc-shaped Magnet Seat (12) and Spool Seat (13), the annular Valve Seat (14), and the
   cylindrical Pressure Cap Connector (15). At the rear of the Pressure Cap Connector (15) is
25 provided with a Connection Fitting (16) for water inflow and a Back Cap (17) for joining
   the Connection Fitting (16) to the Pressure Cap Connector (15).
           Here, the front end of the Mounting Seat (11 b) is integrally connected to the Shell
   (11) and the rear end of the Mounting Seat (1lb) is provided with an annular Plug (1lbl).
   The Spool Seat (13) has an annular concave Slot (13a) at the front end thereof The Plug
                                                  15

   (11 bl) is inserted into the Slot (13a) and sealed to form the Flow Passage Cavity (72). The
   Magnet Seat (12) and the Elastic Piece (6) are provided within the Flow Passage Cavity (72)
   in the Mounting Seat (11 b). The rear end of the Spool Seat (13) has several protruding
   cylindrical Pins (13b). The several Pins (13b) are distributed evenly around the axis of the
 5 Spool Seat (13). The Valve Seat (14) is provided with several Holes (14c) at the front end
   thereof. These matching Pins (13b) are inserted into these Holes (14c). The edge of the
   Sealing Washer (77) is pressed in between the Spool Seat (13) and the Valve Seat (14). The
   rear end of the Valve Seat (14) also has protruding columnar Connection Studs (14d). The
   front end of the Pressure Cap Connector (15) has concave Connection Holes (15a). The
10 Connection Studs (14d) correspondingly insert into Connection Holes (15). A Limiting Slot
   (14e) for circumferentially limiting the Valve Seat (14) is also provided in the axial
   direction on the side of the Valve Seat (14). Specifically, the First Magnetic Piece (5) is
   fixed inside the Magnet Seat (12). The center rear side of the First Magnetic Piece (5) is
   connected with the two block-shaped Sealing Parts made of a rubber material. The two the
15 Sealing Parts (5a), with the larger one in the front and the smaller one in the rear, are
   superposed into a step shape. The Magnet Seat (12) can move towards the Spool Seat (13)
   at the same time with the First Magnetic Piece (5) and the Sealing Parts (5a), under the
   elastic force of the Elastic Piece (6) provided on the front side of the Magnet Seat (12). The
   Magnet Seat (12), the First Magnetic Piece (5), the Sealing Parts (5a) and the Elastic Piece
20 (6) are placed inside the Flow Passage Cavity (72).
            The rear    side  of the Spool     Seat (13)    is recessed    forward to form     the
   above-mentioned Pressure Control Cavity (71). The Pressure Control Cavity (71) opens to
   the rear and is opposite to the Water Passage Port (3d) located on the rear side of the
   Pressure Control Cavity (71) and the opening is larger in size than the Water Passage Port
25 (3d). The Sealing Washer (77) is provided at the opening of the Pressure Control Cavity
   (71). The Sealing Washer (77) is made of a rubber material and whose peripheral edge is
   compressed and sealed by the rear side of the Spool Seat (13) and the front side of the
   Valve Seat (14). The Seal Washer (77) can deform to the front or to the rear, under water
   pressurization. When the Sealing Washer (77) is seated against the end opening of the
30 Water Passage Port (3d) forming a seal, the unrestricted outer edge of the Sealing Washer
                                                  16

   (77) extends out of the Water Passage Port (3d) and contacts the water inside the Water
   Inlet Cavity (3b). The Hole (77a) is opened on the outer edge of the Sealing Washer (77).
           The rear side of the Spool Seat (13) also has a protruding cylindrical Pressure
   Release Cylinder (73). The Pressure Release Cylinder (73) is provided in the forward and
 5 backward direction. The rear end of the Pressure Release Cylinder (73) passes through the
   Sealing Washer (77) and the Water Passage Port (3d) and extends into the Water Outlet
   Cavity (3c). The front end of the Pressure Release Cylinder (73) passes through the
   Pressure Control Cavity (71) and is connected to the Flow Passage Cavity (72). The Sealing
   Washer (77) is sleeved over the Pressure Release Cylinder (73) and moves back and forth
10 along the Pressure Release Cylinder (73). The Sealing Washer (77) is tightly abutted
   against the Pressure Release Cylinder (73) and is always sealed. The above mentioned
   pressure relief passage includes a Flow Passage Hole (74) punctured on the Spool Seat (13)
   and which connects the Pressure Control Cavity (71) with the Flow Passage Cavity (72)
   and the Pressure Release Hole (73a) in the Pressure Release Cylinder (73) and which
15 connects the Flow Passage Cavity (72) with the Water Outlet Cavity (3c). The Flow
   Passage Hole (74) and the Pressure Release Hole (73a) all have larger diameter than that of
   the Through Hole (77a). Under the elastic force of the Elastic Piece (6), The First Magnetic
   Piece (5) and the Magnet Seat (12) are able to drive the Sealing Parts (5a) to press against
   the front end of the Pressure Release Cylinder (73) on the Spool Seat (13) and to form a
20 seal.
           The Valve Seat (14) has a flat Outflow Port (14a). The Outflow Port (14a) has the
   above described Water Outlet Cavity (3c). The Water Passage Port (3d) is designed on the
   front side of the Outflow Port (14a) and is opposite to the Sealing Washer (77). The two
   sids of the Outflow Port (14a) and the inner wall of the valve Seat (14) form a part of the
25 above Water Inlet Cavity (3b). The Outflow Port (14a) has both ends extending to the side
   wall of the Valve Seat (14) and communicating with the Water Outlet (10a) through the
   Vent (14b) punctured through the side wall of the Valve Seat (14). The front end of the
   Pressure Cap Connector (15) is in close contact with, or integral with, the rear end of the
   Valve Seat (14). The rear end of the Pressure Cap Connector (15) has male threads and the
                                                17

   front end of the Back Cap (17) has female threads and has a threaded connection with the
   Pressure Cap Connector (15). The front end of the Connection Fitting (16) is located within
   the Pressure Cap Connector (15) and the Back Cap (17) and the rear end of the Connection
   Fitting (16) extends rearward from the middle of the Back Cap (17) and extends out of the
 5 above described Water Inlet (3a).
           As shown in Fig. 10, when the present combined shower is used, the assembly hub
   (3) is secured to the wall by tube fittings. If the handheld shower head (2) is needed, the
   user may hold the handle part (2b) of the handheld shower head (2) and push the handheld
10 shower head (2) upward to have its front side detach from the limit blocks (lb). Hence, the
   handheld shower head (2) can be taken down. At this point, the first magnetic piece (5)
   inside the assembly hub (3) is not subject to the attraction force from the second magnetic
   piece (9) on the handheld shower head (2). Under the action of the elastic force from the
   elastic piece (6), it drives the sealing part (5a) to move backward and block the pressure
15 release hole (73a). Therefore, water in the water inlet cavity (3b) flows into the pressure
   control cavity (71) through the through hole (77a) on the sealing washer (77), and then
   flows into the flow passage cavity (72) through the flow passage hole (74) but cannot flow
   into the water outlet cavity (3c). With the water pressure inside the pressure control cavity
   (71) gradually increasing, the sealing washer (77) is subject to the water pressure in the
20 pressure control cavity (71), deforms backward and blocks the water passage port (3d), so
   the water inlet cavity (3b) and the water outlet cavity (3c) are disconnected. Hence, the
   water can only flow into the outflow cavity of the handheld shower head (2) through the
   water hose (4), and sprays out from the spraying panel of the handheld shower head (2),
   while the top shower head (1) does not spray water.
25         Conversely, when the top shower head (1) is needed, the user may put the head part
   (2a) of the handheld shower head (2) into the holder cavity (8) which is slightly bigger than
   the head part (2a) of the handheld shower head (2). At this point, the second magnetic piece
   (9) inside the handheld shower head (2) is subject to the attraction force from the first
   magnetic piece (5) and secures the handheld shower head (2). In coordination with the two
                                                  18

   limit blocks (lb), a three-point fixation of the handheld shower head (2) is achieved.
   Meanwhile, the first magnetic piece (5) is subject to the attraction force from the second
   magnetic piece (9) inside the handheld shower head (2), overcomes the elastic force from
   the elastic piece (6), and moves forward. This makes the sealing part (5a) separate from the
 5 pressure release hole (73a), and the pressure release hole (73a) is open again. Because both
   hole diameters of the pressure release hole (73a) and the flow passage hole (74) are greater
   than that of the through hole (77a), the flow rate of the water in the pressure control cavity
   (71) flowing into the water outlet cavity (3c) through the flow passage hole (74) and the
   pressure release hole (73a), is greater than the supplying rate of the water in the water inlet
10 cavity (3b) flowing into the pressure control cavity (71) through the through hole (77a).
   The water pressure in the pressure control cavity (71) gradually decreases. The sealing
   washer (77) is subject to the higher water pressure in the water inlet cavity (3b), deforms
   toward the pressure control cavity (71) and detach from the water passage port (3d), so that
   the water outlet cavity (3c) connects to the water inlet cavity (3b) through the water passage
15 port (3d). The water can directly flow into the outflow cavity of the top shower head (1)
   through the water passage port (3d) and the water outlet cavity (3c), and then spray out
   from the spraying panel of the top shower head (1). At the same time, the handheld shower
   head (2) is also spraying water, so the handheld shower head (2) and the top shower head (1)
   surrounding the handheld shower head (2) are both spraying water. This largely increases
20 the water spraying area.
           During the usage of the present combined shower, the connection control over the
   water passage of top shower head (1) is achieved by the user taking down or hanging up the
   handheld shower head (2), without manually turning the switch knob on the top shower
   head (1). It does not require a tall stature of the user and is easier to use.
25
            Second Embodiment
           As shown in Fig. 6, this Second Embodiment is roughly the same as the technical
   proposal in First Embodiment. The differences are:
                                                    19

            The sealing structure comprises a swinging plate (75) hinged on the front part of the
   water passage port (3d). The elastic piece (6) comprises a torsion spring connected to the
   hinge point. Under the action of the elastic force from the torsion spring, the swinging plate
   (75) can lean against the end of the water passage port (3d) and forms a seal. The first
 5 magnetic piece (5) is connected to the front side of the swinging plate (75) and can drive
   the swinging plate (75) to swing back and forth. Of course, the first magnetic piece (5) may
   also be connected to the rear side of the swinging plate (75) as needed.
           When the top shower head (1) is not required to spray water, the second magnetic
   piece (9), along with the handheld shower head (2), is taken down. Under the action of the
10 elastic force from the torsion spring, the swinging plate (75) can lean against the end of the
   water passage port (3d) and disconnects the water inlet cavity (3b) from the water outlet
   cavity (3c). Conversely, under the action of the attraction force from the second magnetic
   piece (9), the first magnetic piece (5) drives the swinging plate (75) which is connected to it
   to swing forward, and hence the water passage port (3d) opens, so the water in the water
15 inlet cavity (3b) flows through the water passage port (3d), enters into the water outlet
   cavity (3c) and flows into the outflow cavity of the top shower head (1).
            Third Embodiment
           As shown in Fig. 7, this Third Embodiment is roughly the same as the technical
20 proposal in First Embodiment. The differences are:
            The sealing structure comprises a sheet-like sealing piece (76). The sealing piece
   (76) is fixed on the rear side of the first magnetic piece (5), and the sealing piece (76),
   along with the first magnetic piece (5) can tightly press against the end of the water passage
   port (3d) and forms a seal, under the action of the elastic force from the elastic piece (6).
25          The description of the preferred embodiments thereof serves only as an illustration
   of the spirit of the invention. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various
   changes or supplements in form and details may be made therein without departing from
   the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                                   20

                           List of Reference Numerals
   1  Top Shower Head
   la Gap
   lb Limit Block
 5 ic First Outlet Chamber
   2  Handheld Shower Head
   2a Head Part
   2b Handle Part
   2c Second Outlet Chamber
10 2d Assembly Mount
   3  Assembly Hub
   3a Water Inlet
   3b Water Inlet Cavity
   3c Water Outlet Cavity
15 3d Water Passage Port
   4  Water Hose
   5  First Magnetic Piece
   5a Sealing Part
   6  Elastic Piece
20 71 Pressure Control Cavity
   72 Flow Passage Cavity
   73 Pressure Release Cylinder
                                     21

   73a Pressure Release Hole
   74   Flow Passage Hole
   75   Swinging Plate
   76   Sealing Piece
 5 77   Sealing Washer
   77a Through Hole
   8    Holder Cavity
   9    Second Magnetic Piece
   10   Support Bracket
10 10a Water Outlet
   11   Shell
   11a Cavity
   1lb Mounting Seat
   1lbI Plug
15 12   Magnet Seat
   13   Spool Seat
   13a  Slot
   13b Pin
   14   Valve Seat
20 14a Outflow Port
   14b Vent
   14c Hole
                              22

  14d Connection Stud
  14e Limiting Slot
  15  Pressure Cap Connector
  15a Connection Hole
5 16  Connection Fitting
  17  Back Cap
                             23

                                       CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
    1.  A combined shower comprising:
   a top shower head (1);
 5 a handheld shower head (2);
   an assembly hub (3) that has a water inlet (3 a);
   a water inlet cavity (3b) inside the assembly hub (3), the water inlet cavity (3b)
   connected to the water inlet (3 a);
   an outflow cavity of the handheld shower head (2) connected to the water inlet
10 cavity (3b) through a water hose (4);
   a first magnetic piece (5) inside the assembly hub (3);
   an elastic piece (6) inside the assembly hub (3);
   a sealing structure inside the assembly hub (3), the sealing structure capable of
   connecting or blocking an outflow cavity of the top shower head (1) and the water
15 inlet cavity (3b), the first magnetic piece (5) capable of moving under an action of
   an elastic force from the elastic piece (6) and then causing the sealing structure to
   shut off the outflow cavity of the top shower head (1);
   a holder cavity (8) to hold the handheld shower head (2), the holder cavity (8)
   located in front of the assembly hub (3);
20 a second magnetic piece (9) fixed on the handheld shower head (2), the second
   magnetic piece (9) arranged magnetically opposite and facing the first magnetic
   piece (5);
   wherein under an action of an attraction force from the second magnetic piece (9),
   the first magnetic piece (5) is capable of overcoming the elastic force from the
25 elastic piece (6), moves in an opposite direction, and causes the sealing structure to
                                           24

   connect the outflow cavity of the top shower head (1) to the water inlet cavity (3b).
   2.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 1, further comprising:
   a water outlet cavity (3c) inside the assembly hub (3), the water outlet cavity (3c)
   connected to the outflow cavity of the top shower head (1), the water outlet cavity
 5 (3c) also connected to the water inlet cavity (3b) through a water passage port (3d);
   wherein the water passage port (3d) faces forward; and
   wherein the sealing structure is arranged near the water passage port (3d), and is
   capable of opening or closing the water passage port (3d) when driven by the first
   magnetic piece (5).
10 3.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 2 wherein
   the sealing structure comprises a pressure control cavity (71) located in a front area
   of the water passage port (3d);
   wherein a sealing washer (77) is arranged between the pressure control cavity (71)
   and the water outlet cavity (3c);
15 wherein under an action of water pressure from a front side and a rear side, the
   sealing washer (77) is capable of moving back and forth;
   wherein when the sealing washer (77) moves backward, it is capable of pressing
   against an end of the water passage port (3d) and form a seal;
   wherein punctured on the sealing washer (77), there is a through hole (77a) that is
20 capable of connecting the water inlet cavity (3b) to the pressure control cavity (71),
   and a pressure release passage that is capable of connecting the pressure control
   cavity (71) to the water outlet cavity (3c);
   wherein a minimum cross-sectional area of the pressure release passage is greater
   than a minimum cross-sectional area of the through hole (77a); and
25 wherein under the action of the elastic force from the elastic piece (6), the first
   magnetic piece (5) is capable of blocking the pressure release passage.
                                           25

   4.    The combined shower as claimed in Claim 3 wherein
   the sealing structure also comprises a flow passage cavity (72) located in front of
   the pressure control cavity (71), and a cylindrical pressure release cylinder (73);
   wherein the pressure release cylinder (73) is arranged along a front direction and a
 5 back direction;
   wherein a rear end of the pressure release cylinder (73) enters into the water outlet
   cavity (3c), and a front end of the pressure release cylinder (73) passes through the
   pressure control cavity (71) and connects to the flow passage cavity (72);
   wherein the sealing washer (77) is sleeved over an outside of the pressure release
10 cylinder (73) and is capable of moving back and forth, along the pressure release
   cylinder (73);
   wherein the sealing washer (77) tightly presses against the pressure release cylinder
   (73) and forms a seal;
   wherein the pressure release passage comprises a flow passage hole (74) that is
15 capable of connecting the pressure control cavity (71) to the flow passage cavity
   (72), and the pressure release hole (73a) that is located inside the pressure release
   cylinder (73) and connects the flow passage cavity (72) to the water outlet cavity
   (3c);
   wherein a hole diameter of the flow passage hole (74) and a hole diameter of the
20 pressure release hole (73a) are each greater than a hole diameter of the through hole
   (77a);
   wherein the first magnetic piece (5) is arranged inside the flow passage cavity (72);
   and
   wherein the first magnetic piece (5) is capable of pressing against a front end of the
25 pressure release cylinder (73) under the action of the elastic force from the elastic
   piece (6), and forms a seal.
                                          26

   5.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 4 wherein
   a sealing part (5a) made of rubber material is fixed to a rear of the first magnetic
   piece (5), where the sealing part (5a) faces the pressure release hole (73a).
   6.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 2 wherein
 5 the sealing structure comprises a swinging plate (75) hinged on a front part of the
   water passage port (3d);
   wherein the elastic piece (6) comprises a torsion spring connected to a hinge point;
   wherein under an action of an elastic force from the torsion spring, the swinging
   plate (75) is capable of leaning against an end of the water passage port (3d) and
10 forms a seal; and
   wherein the first magnetic piece (5) is connected to a front side or a rear side of the
   swinging plate (75).
   7.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 2 wherein
   the first magnetic piece (5) is located in front of the water passage port (3d);
15 wherein the elastic piece (6) comprises a spring and the spring is arranged in front
   of the first magnetic piece (5);
   wherein the sealing structure comprises a sheet-like sealing piece (76);
   wherein the sealing piece (76) is fixed on a rear side of the first magnetic piece (5),
   and the sealing piece (76) along with the first magnetic piece (5) is capable of
20 tightly pressing against an end of the water passage port (3d) and forms a seal,
   under the action of the elastic force from the elastic piece (6).
   8.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 1 wherein
   the elastic piece (6) is a spring and two ends of the spring press against an inner
   wall of the assembly hub (3) and an inner wall of the first magnetic piece (5),
25 respectively.
                                           27

   9.   The combined shower as claimed in Claim 4 wherein
   the top shower head (1) is of an arc shape and the gap (la) is located in a lower part;
   wherein the assembly hub (3) is arranged at a rear side of the top shower head (1),
   and connects to the top shower head (1) by a support bracket (10);
 5 wherein a middle part of the top shower head (1) forms a holder cavity (8) for a
   placement of the handheld shower head (2); and
   wherein the gap (la) allows the handle part (2b) of the handheld shower head (2) to
   pass through it.
   10. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 9 wherein
10 projecting limit blocks (lb) are fixed on two sides of the top shower head (1), which
   are adjacent to the gap (la); and
   wherein rear ends of the limit blocks (lb) are capable of pressing against a front end
   of the handheld shower head (2) inside the holder cavity (8).
   11. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 5 wherein
15 the assembly hub (3) includes a cylindrical shell (11) having a cavity (11 a) therein,
   the mounting seat (1 Ib), the disc-shaped magnet seat (12) and spool seat (13), the
   annular valve seat (14), and the cylindrical pressure cap connector (15) is provided
   with inside the cavity (11 a) coaxially with the Shell (11) and from the front to the
   back; the mounting seat (11b), the spool seat (13), the valve seat (14) and the
20 cylindrical pressure cap connector (15) are plugged together, both the magnet seat
   (12) and the elastic piece (6) are arranged in the mounting seat (11 b), at the rear of
   the Pressure cap connector (15) is provided with a connection fitting (16) for water
   inflow and a back cap (17) forjoining the connection fitting (16) to the pressure cap
   connector (15).
25 12. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 11 wherein
   the rear end of the mounting seat (11 b) is provided with an annular plug (1 lb 1), the
                                          28

   spool seat (13) has an annular slot (13a) at the front end thereof, the plug (1Ibl) is
   inserted into the slot (13a), the rear end of the spool seat (13) has several protruding
   cylindrical pins (13b), the valve seat (14) is provided with several holes (14c) at the
   front end thereof, these matching pins (13b) are inserted into these holes (14c), the
 5 edge of the sealing washer (77) is pressed in between the spool seat (13) and the
   valve seat (14), the rear end of the valve seat (14) also has protruding columnar
   connection studs (14d), the front end of the pressure cap connector (15) has concave
   connection holes (15a), the connection studs (14d) correspondingly insert into
   connection holes (15a), a limiting slot (14e) for circumferentially limiting the valve
10 seat (14) is also provided in the axial direction on the side of the valve seat (14), the
   pressure cap connector (15) has an external thread at its rear end, the front end of
   the back cap has an internal thread and has a threaded connection with the pressure
   cap connector (15), the front end of the connection fitting is located inside the
   pressure cap connector (15)       and the back cap (17) and the back end of the
15 connection fitting extends backwards from the middle of the back cap (17) and is
   the water inlet (3a).
   13. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 12 wherein
     the first magnetic piece (5) is fixed inside the magnet seat (12), the center of rear
   side of the first magnetic piece (5) is connected with the two block-shaped sealing
20 parts (5a) made of a rubber material, the two the sealing parts (5a), with the larger
   one in the front and the smaller one in the rear, are superposed into a step shape.
   14. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 13 wherein
   the rear side of the spool seat (13) is recessed forward to form the pressure control
   cavity (71), the sealing washer (77) is made of a rubber material and the sealing
25 washer (77) is provided at the opening of the pressure control cavity (71), the
   sealing washer (77) can be deformed to the front or to the back by the action of
   hydraulic pressure.
   15. The combined shower as claimed in Claim14 wherein
                                           29

   the valve seat (14) has a flat outflow port (14a), and the outflow port (14a) has the
   water outlet cavity (3c), the water passage port (3d) is provided on the front side of
   the outflow port (14a) and is opposed to the sealing washer (77), a part of the water
   inlet cavity (3b) is formed between the two sides of the outflow port (14a) and the
 5 inner wall of the valve seat (14); the water outlet cavity (3c) is communicated with
   the first outlet chamber (1c) of the top shower head (1) through the water outlet
   (10a); both ends of the outflow port (14a) extending to the side wall of the valve
   seat (14) and communicating with the water outlet (10a) through a vent (14b)
   punctured through the wall of the valve seat (14).
10 16. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 5 wherein
   the top shower head (1) is of an arc shape and the gap (la) is located in a lower part;
   wherein the assembly hub (3) is arranged at a rear side of the top shower head (1),
   and connects to the top shower head (1) by a support bracket (10);
   wherein a middle part of the top shower head (1) forms a holder cavity (8) for a
15 placement of the handheld shower head (2); and
   wherein the gap (la) allows the handle part (2b) of the handheld shower head (2) to
   pass through it.
   17. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 1 wherein
   the assembly hub (3) includes a cylindrical shell (11) having a cavity (11 a) therein,
20 the mounting seat (1 Ib), the disc-shaped magnet seat (12) and spool seat (13), the
   annular valve seat (14), and the cylindrical pressure cap connector (15) is provided
   with inside the cavity (11 a) coaxially with the Shell (11) and from the front to the
   back; the mounting seat (11b), the spool seat (13), the valve seat (14) and the
   cylindrical pressure cap connector (15) are plugged together, both the magnet seat
25 (12) and the elastic piece (6) are arranged in the mounting seat (11 b), at the rear of
   the Pressure cap connector (15) is provided with a connection fitting (16) for water
   inflow and a back cap (17) forjoining the connection fitting (16) to the pressure cap
                                          30

   connector (15).
   18. The combined shower as claimed in Claim 17 wherein
   the rear end of the mounting seat (11 b) is provided with an annular plug (1 lb 1), the
   spool seat (13) has an annular slot (13a) at the front end thereof, the plug (1Ibl) is
 5 inserted into the slot (13a), the rear end of the spool seat (13) has several protruding
   cylindrical pins (13b), the valve seat (14) is provided with several holes (14c) at the
   front end thereof, these matching pins (13b) are inserted into these holes (14c), the
   edge of the sealing washer (77) is pressed in between the spool seat (13) and the
   valve seat (14), the rear end of the valve seat (14) also has protruding columnar
10 connection studs (14d), the front end of the pressure cap connector (15) has concave
   connection holes (15a), the connection studs (14d) correspondingly insert into
   connection holes (15a), a limiting slot (14e) for circumferentially limiting the valve
   seat (14) is also provided in the axial direction on the side of the valve seat (14), the
   pressure cap connector (15) has an external thread at its rear end, the front end of
15 the back cap has an internal thread and has a threaded connection with the pressure
   cap connector (15), the front end of the connection fitting is located inside the
   pressure cap connector (15)       and the back cap (17) and the back end of the
   connection fitting extends backwards from the middle of the back cap (17) and is
   the water inlet (3a).
20
25
                                           31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
