                                          16
ABSTRACT
FEEDER
A feeder is described for the conveyance of material such as overburden or mineral
from a working site, the feeder comprising a feed device having a material receiving
end having a material receiving apron suitable for receiving material such as
overburden or mineral at a     working site; a material discharge end distal of the
material receiving end; an endless conveyor disposed between the material receiving
apron and the discharge end so as in use to cause material received at the material
receiving apron to be conveyed to the material discharge end; a chassis supporting the
feed device; a transport carriage supporting the chassis and adapted to cause the
feeder to be movable across a surface for deployment in use. A system A system and
method for the movement of material from a working site for example via transport
trucks are also described.

NJJ
             NJ
        CY-.
    LI-

                                             1
FEEDER
Field of the Invention
[0001] This invention relates to a feeder apparatus, system and method for the
movement of material from a working site. The invention relates in particular to an
overburden or mineral feeder and a system and method of handling overburden or
mineral, for example for use in opencast mining.
Background to the Invention
[0002] In mineral operations such as open-cast mining of coal, significant volumes of
material need to be handled at and removed from the working site. First, a large
volume of material, known as overburden, has to be removed and disposed of before
access is gained to the minerals of interest. Then, the minerals of interest need to
removed.
[0003] For large scale overburden/ mineral removal operations, use may be made of
excavation machinery such as draglines as the primary load-bearing tools to move
material. These machines have been developed on a huge scale. The use of shovels to
load trucks is another commonplace method. Whilst truck-shovel loading is not
necessarily as cost effective as dragline removal per volume of overburden or mineral
removed, it offers more flexibility in removal of overburden material or mineral.
[0004] Problems associated with truck-shovel loading include those associated with
ensuring that an individual truck is loaded fully and efficiently, and those associated
with the essentially batch-process nature of filling discrete trucks.
[0005] In particular, a process which requires a truck to reverse into position prior to
filling, to be filled by a shovel, and then to drive out requires periodic suspension of
the shoveling operation when there is no truck in place. A shovel may not be well

                                             2
adapted to distributing the overburden/ mineral efficiently in the truck. The relatively
large capacity of a shovel, say 100t, and the consequence that relatively few shovel
loads that might therefore be sufficient to fill a truck, tend to make it harder to get
anywhere towards 100% fill efficiencies.
[0006] Each of these factors may tend to mean that truck-shovel loading is relatively
inefficient, both in terms of effectiveness of truck fill, and in terms of volume
processing rates.
[0007] The preceding discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding     of  the  present   invention   only.    The   discussion  is  not   an
acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of
the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
Summary of the Invention
[0008] In accordance with the invention in a first aspect, a feeder is provided for the
conveyance of material such as overburden or mineral, the feeder comprising:
a feed device having:
        a material receiving end having a material receiving apron suitable for
        receiving material such as overburden or mineral at a working site;
        a material discharge end distal of the material receiving end;
        an endless conveyor disposed between the material receiving apron and the
        discharge end so as in use to cause material received at the material receiving
        apron to be conveyed to the material discharge end;
a chassis supporting the feed device;
a transport carriage supporting the chassis and adapted to cause the feeder to be
movable across a surface for deployment in use.
[0009] In an intended application in the context of the movement of material such as
overburden or mineral using truck-shovel loading principles, the intention is that the
feeder in accordance with the first aspect of the invention sits between the shovel,

                                            3
which supplies material such as overburden or mineral to the material receiving
apron, and the truck, which is supplied by material such as overburden or mineral
from the material discharge end.
[0010] Two distinctly characteristic features of the feeder in accordance with the first
aspect of the invention serve to facilitate more efficient material handling in a truck
shovel loading system.
[0011] First, the combination of a material receiving apron and a continuous
conveyor to cause material received at the material receiving apron to be conveyed to
the material discharge end means that the feeder functions as a surge conveyor. As a
result, discrete batch supply from the shovel at the apron end may be converted to a
more even continuous supply at the discharge end. This facilitates more even loading
of the truck, and makes it more likely that load levels of nearer 100% can be
achieved. Additionally, subject to appropriate capacity design for the apron region, it
may be possible to continue to supply the apron via the shovel whether a truck is
immediately in place or not, increasing overall throughput volumes.
[0012] Second, the transport carriage supporting the chassis on which the feed device
itself sits makes the feeder mobile, so that it can be brought into and out of a desired
operational position as required, co-operating with the movement of the operational
front and the movement of the trucks to improve operational efficiency.
[0013] Thus, in accordance with the invention in a second aspect, a system for the
movement of material such as overburden or mineral from a working site comprises:
a material shovel having a bucket adapted to pick up material and move the material
from a work front;
a feeder in accordance with the first aspect of the invention positioned to receive
material discharged from the bucket into the material receiving apron and to convey
the same to the material discharge end;
a transport truck including a material transport volume positioned to receive material
from the material discharge end of the feed device.

                                             4
[0014] Similarly in accordance with the invention in a third aspect, a method for the
movement of material such as overburden or mineral from a working site comprises:
providing a feeder comprising:
a feed device having:
        a material receiving end having a material receiving apron suitable for
        receiving material such as overburden or mineral at a working site;
        a material discharge end distal of the material receiving end;
        an endless conveyor disposed between the material receiving apron and the
        discharge end so as in use to cause material received at the material receiving
        apron to be conveyed to the material discharge end;
a chassis supporting the feed device;
a transport carriage supporting the chassis and adapted to cause the feeder to be
movable across a surface for deployment in use;
moving the feeder into position at a work front at the working site;
picking up material from the work front;
transferring material to the material receiving apron;
conveying material to the discharge end of the feeder.
[0015] More specifically the method may comprise:
providing a material shovel at a work front;
moving the feeder into position with the material receiving apron adjacent the
material shovel;
positioning a transport truck including a material transport volume to receive material
from the material discharge end of the feed device;
picking up material from the work front using the bucket of a material shovel;
transferring material from the bucket of the material shovel to the material receiving
apron;
conveying material to the discharge end of the feeder and thereby into the material
transport volume of the truck.

                                            5
[0016] The key to all aspects of the invention is the provision of the mobile surge
feeder between the shovel and the truck. This facilitates more even loading of the
truck, and makes it more likely that load levels of nearer 100% can be achieved. For
example fill levels of more than 90% and more preferably at least           9 5 -9 8 % are
achievable, which is not typically achievable by batch filling using conventional
shovel fill protocols. The processing capacity of the surge feeder may be designed to
be such relative to the cycle time of the shovel that the shovel operator cannot
overwhelm it, allowing for effectively continuous operation of the shovel.
[0017] Subject to provision of this mobile surge conveyor feeder in accordance with
the first aspect of the invention for use between the shovel and the truck in a system
and method of the second and third aspects of the invention, the shovel and the truck
themselves may be of conventional known design.
[0018] In a preferred use of the feeder of the first aspect of the invention, a preferred
system of the second aspect, or a preferred method of the third aspect, the material
receiving end of the feed device may be positioned to be supplied and may be
supplied with material such as overburden/ mineral directly from the shovel. The
material discharge end of the feed device may be positioned to supply and may
supply material such as overburden/ mineral directly to a truck.
[0019] Alternatively supply of material such as overburden from the shovel to the
receiving end of the feed device and/ or supply of material such as overburden/
mineral from the discharge end of the feed device to a truck my be indirect in the
sense that it passes via intermediate        equipment. For example in a possible
embodiment or use a sizer may be interposed between and process material passing
between the shovel and the receiving end of the feed device. Thus, the system and
method may be adapted for handling of run of mine or sized material, and is not
restricted by particular material size.
[0020] The material receiving apron of the feed device is for example a material
receiving hopper. The material receiving hopper may have a capacity and/ or a shape

                                             6
generally matched to the capacity and/ or shape of a material transport volume of the
truck with which it is intended to be used.
[0021] The feeder is conformed as a surge conveyor feeder by provision of an endless
conveyor disposed between the material receiving apron and the discharge end so as
in use to cause material received at the material receiving apron to be conveyed to the
material discharge end. The endless conveyor is for example an endless belt conveyor
or apron/ plate feeder.
[0022] The feeder is provided with a chassis supporting the feed device and a
transport carriage supporting the chassis and adapted to cause the feeder to be
movable across a surface for deployment in use. The feeder is thus adapted for use as
a mobile surge conveyor unit, and may be deployed in use into optimum location for
more efficient operation of a truck-shovel loading protocol.
[0023] The transport carriage in a possible embodiment includes one or more ground
contactable transport arrangements adapted to effect movement of the feeder across a
ground surface in use. For example the transport carriage may include a pair of
parallel, driven, ground-engaging tracks.
[0024] In a possible embodiment the transport carriage may include a pair of parallel,
separately driven ground-engaging tracks and one or more control devices for
selectively driving the respective said tracks at different speeds so as to effect steering
of the transport carriage.
[0025] In a possible embodiment the chassis may be rotatably supported on the
transport carriage to permit rotation of the chassis and feeder thereon relative to the
transport carriage.
[0026] The shovel is preferably also mobile. For example the shovel may include a
mounting chassis, transport carriage and drive arrangement as suggested for the surge
feeder hereinabove.

                                             7
[0027] A system in accordance with the second aspect of the invention preferably
includes a sensor system to sense fill level as a truck is filled. Conveniently a feeder
in accordance with the first aspect of the invention includes a sensor system to sense
fill level as a truck is filled in use. Conveniently such a sensor system is adapted co
operably with a conveyor control system to cause the conveyor of the feeder device to
pause when a truck is detected as being full, allowing an empty truck to be positioned
in replacement. The processing capacity of the apron is preferably such as to allow
for continuous operation of the shovel during this period.
[0028] Additionally or alternatively, a system in accordance with the second aspect of
the invention and conveniently a feeder in accordance with the first aspect of the
invention includes a sensor system to sense distribution of load within the truck.
Conveniently such a sensor system is adapted co-operably with a conveyor control
system to cause the conveyor of the feeder device to distribute material more evenly
into a transport volume of the truck.
[0029] The use of sensors may have advantage in some cases for example in
facilitating the automation of the process. However in a possible alternative mode of
operation manual signaling may be used as an alternative to sensors to monitor fill
levels and fill distributions.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0030] In the drawings, which illustrate an exemplary embodiment of the invention:
Figure 1 is a diagrammatic side elevation of the feeder of the first aspect of the
invention in an example use with other apparatus thereby constituting an embodiment
of the system of the second aspect of the invention and illustrative of an embodiment
of the method of the third aspect of the invention;
Figure 2 is a diagrammatic side elevation of the feeder of the first aspect of the
invention in an example use with an alternative arrangement of other apparatus
thereby constituting an alternative embodiment of the system of the second aspect of

                                             8
the invention and illustrative of an alternative embodiment of the method of the third
aspect of the invention.
Detailed Description of the Illustrated Embodiment
[0031] In the illustration in Figure 1, a possible system embodying the principles of
the second aspect of the invention is shown. A mobile shovel 1, mobile surge feeder
5 constituting a possible embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, and a truck
15 are shown positioned left to right in series. A typical mobile shovel 1 and truck 15
are shown, but the system may employ known suitable designs without departing
from the principles of the invention.
[0032] In the figure 2 arrangement an additional optional piece of equipment
constituting a mobile mineral sizer 3 is disposed between the shovel 1 and receiving
hoper 7 and an apron end of the surge feeder 5. Otherwise the apparatus in the
illustrated embodiment is the same as in figure 1 and like reference numerals are
used.
[0033] Other alternative additional processing apparatus may be positioned here or
else where within the system without departing from the principles of the invention,
or such additional processing apparatus may be dispensed with altogether as shown in
figure 1.
[0034] Overburden/ mineral material is removed by the shovel 1 in conventional
manner. In the illustrated embodiment of figure 1 it is passed directly to the surge
feeder 5 from the bucket 2 of the mobile shovel 1 directly to the hopper 7 of the surge
feeder 5. In the illustrated embodiment of figure 2 it is passed indirectly to the surge
feeder 5, in that it is first provided to the mobile sizer apparatus 3 for initial
processing.
[0035] In either mode of operation, overburden/ mineral material is supplied by the
shovel, directly or indirectly, to the hopper 7 in the apron region of the surge feeder 5.

                                             9
It is conveyed via an endless conveyor belt 9 to a discharge end 11 where a truck 15
waits to receive it into its load volume 16.
[0036] The surge feeder is additionally distinctive characterized in being mobile, by
virtue of being mounted on a chassis 12 and provided with parallel ground engaging
tracks 13.
[0037] The shovel and the truck may be of generally conventional design. Open cast
mining operations are constantly seeking more flexible solutions to match truck and
shovel capacities and processing rates and to improve fill level accuracy and
efficiency in particular. In direct loading systems, where a shovel such as illustrated
in the embodiment loads a truck directly batch by batch, trucks rarely reach 90% load
and load rates of say 6000 tons per hour might be typical where a shovel might in
principle have a capacity of 10000 tons per hour because of delays as each truck is
replace. The surge feeder of the invention provides an admirable solution.
[0038] The surge feeder is positioned between the shovel and the truck. The surge
feeder is able continuously to process overburden/ mineral from the shovel and
provide it to load a truck. The mobile arrangement of surge feeder enables a truck to
drive alongside the surge feeder output end eliminating the need for it to reverse into
position directly adjacent the shovel. This potentially improves truck movement
efficiency.
[0039] The key to the solution of the invention is the provision of a surge feeder
which is made mobile so that it can move along with the shovel, allowing the
operation to use the shovel to its maximum capacity. The surge feeder is positioned
between the shovel and the truck, and is therefore able to continuously to process
overburden/ mineral supplied by the shovel, whether directly to its apron region or
indirectly via intermediate processing equipment. The surge feeder is drivable on its
tracks and pivotable on its chassis allowing it to be positioned optimally to feed the
trucks progressively.     A truck need never to reverse into position.   It can merely

                                              10
position itself alongside. The processing capacity of the surge feeder is designed to
be greater than that of the shovel, so that the shovel can operate continuously.
[0040] Loading the trucks via the surge feeder offers potential efficiency advantages
for a number of reasons.        The more steady continuous operation allows for the
possibility of more even loading, for higher fill levels, and avoids the shock loading
effect of dropping 100 ton batches into the truck bed.
[0041] Advantages of such a system might include the following potential efficiency
savings:
maximized volume of operation due to improved truck fill factors;
savings on operating expenses by reduction in unnecessary truck operation;
reduction of truck wear and tear and damage;
cleaner and more precise operation at the processing site, with a possible increase in
truck tyre life with cleaner pit floors;
avoidance of damage to truck bodies by loading buckets.
[0042] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein, the
singular forms "a", "an" and "the" may be intended to include the plural forms as
well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.             The terms "comprise",
"comprises," "comprising," "including," and "having," or variations thereof are
inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps,
operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition
of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components,
and/or groups thereof.
[0043] The method steps, processes, and operations described herein are not to be
construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed
or illustrated, unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be
understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

                                           11
[0044] Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to the skilled
addressee are considered to fall within the scope of the present invention.    The
present invention is not to be limited in scope by any of the specific embodiments
described herein. These embodiments are intended for the purpose of exemplification
only. Functionally equivalent products, formulations and methods are clearly within
the scope of the invention as described herein.

                                          12
Claims
1.     A feeder for the conveyance of material such as overburden or mineral
       comprising:
       a feed device having:
               a material receiving end having a material receiving apron suitable for
               receiving material such as overburden or mineral at a working site;
               a material discharge end distal of the material receiving end;
               an endless conveyor disposed between the material receiving apron
               and the discharge end so as in use to cause material received at the
               material receiving apron to be conveyed to the material discharge end;
       a chassis supporting the feed device;
       a transport carriage supporting the chassis and adapted to cause the feeder to
       be movable across a surface for deployment in use.
2.     A feeder in accordance with claim 1 wherein the material receiving end of the
       feed device is positioned to be supplied with material directly from a material
       handling shovel, and wherein the material discharge end of the feed device is
       positioned to supply material directly to a truck.
3.     A feeder in accordance with any preceding claim wherein the material
       receiving apron of the feed device is a material receiving hopper.
4.     A feeder in accordance with any preceding claim wherein the feeder is
       conformed as a surge conveyor feeder and the endless conveyor comprises an
       endless belt conveyor or apron/ plate feeder.
5.     A feeder in accordance with any preceding claim provided with a chassis
       supporting the feed device and a transport carriage supporting the chassis and
       adapted to cause the feeder to be movable across a surface for deployment in
       use.

                                         13
6.  A feeder in accordance with claim 5 wherein the transport comprises one or
    more ground contactable transport arrangements adapted to effect movement
    of the feeder across a ground surface in use.
7.  A feeder in accordance with claim 6 wherein the transport carriage has a pair
    of parallel, driven, ground-engaging tracks.
8.  A feeder in accordance with one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the chassis is
    rotatably supported on the transport carriage to permit rotation of the chassis
    and feeder thereon relative to the transport carriage.
9.  A system for the movement of material from a working site comprising:
    a material shovel having a bucket adapted to pick up material and move the
    material from a work front;
    a feeder in accordance with any preceding claim positioned to receive material
    discharged from the bucket into the material receiving apron and to convey
    the same to the material discharge end;
    a transport truck including a material transport volume positioned to receive
    material from the material discharge end of the feed device.
10. A system in accordance with claim 9 wherein the material receiving end of the
    feed device is positioned to be supplied with material directly from a material
    handling shovel, and wherein the material discharge end of the feed device is
    positioned to supply material directly to a truck.
11. A system in accordance with claim 9 further comprising a material sizer
    wherein the material receiving end of the feed device is positioned to be
    supplied with material from the sizer.
12. A system in accordance with one of claims 9 to 11 further comprising a sensor
    system to sense fill level as a truck is filled.

                                        14
13. A system in accordance with one of claims 9 to 12 further comprising a sensor
    system to sense distribution of load within the truck.
14. A method for the movement of material from a working site comprising:
    providing a feeder comprising:
    a feed device having:
            a material receiving end having a material receiving apron suitable for
            receiving material such as overburden or mineral at a working site;
            a material discharge end distal of the material receiving end;
            an endless conveyor disposed between the material receiving apron
            and the discharge end so as in use to cause material received at the
            material receiving apron to be conveyed to the material discharge end;
    a chassis supporting the feed device;
    a transport carriage supporting the chassis and adapted to cause the feeder to
    be movable across a surface for deployment in use;
    moving the feeder into position at a work front at the working site;
    picking up material from the work front;
    transferring material to the material receiving apron;
    conveying material to the discharge end of the feeder.
15. A method in accordance with claim 14 comprising the further steps of:
    providing a material shovel at a work front;
    moving the feeder into position with the material receiving apron adjacent the
    material shovel;
    positioning a transport truck including a material transport volume to receive
    material from the material discharge end of the feed device;
    picking up material from the work front using the bucket of a material shovel;
    transferring material from the bucket of the material shovel to the material
    receiving apron;
    conveying material to the discharge end of the feeder and thereby into the
    material transport volume of the truck.

                                         15
16. A method in accordance with claim 14 or 15 wherein the material receiving
    end of the feed device is supplied with material directly from a material
    handling shovel, and wherein the material discharge end of the feed device
    supplies material directly to a truck.
17. A method in accordance with claim 14 or 15 further comprising first
    supplying material such as overburden or mineral at a working site to a sizer
    wherein the material receiving end of the feed device is positioned to be
    supplied with material from the sizer.

                                     <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                             <U+2704>
                                 <U+2721>   <U+2720>   <U+271F>   <U+271E>   <U+271D>   <U+2706>
                     <U+261E>
                                                                       1/2
<U+260E>
    <U+261B>
            <U+2701><U+2702>
        <U+260E>
                 <U+2701>
                         <U+2704>

                    <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
                         <U+2721>   <U+2720>   <U+271F>   <U+271E>   <U+271D>   <U+2706>
                     <U+2704>
                                                               2/2
<U+260E>
            <U+2701>
        <U+260E>
    <U+2702>
                <U+261E>

