                                           ABSTRACT
           A system for providing a universal decentralized solution for verification of
   users with cross-verification features is described. The system may be configured to
   receive from a first entity, at a blockchain trust utility, information related to one or
5  more verified first documents, the one or more verified first documents associated
   with a first user. The system may be configured to receive from a second entity, at
   the blockchain trust utility, a request for the information related to the one or more
   verified documents associated with the first user. The system may be configured to,
   upon receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, an approval of the
10 request for the information related to one or more verified documents associated with
   the first user, give access to the second entity to obtain access to information related
   to the one or more verified documents associated with the first user.

                                        1/5
                                                  100
Servers) 102
                                            Computing
                      ec     2Platform(s)
                           cStorage
 Processor(s) 128
  Machine Readable Instructions      106
     Receiving Verified Documents
     Component                       108
     Receiving Information Request
     Component                       110
     Receiving User Decision
     Component                       112
     Approval / Denial Component     114    External
                                            Resources
                                                      124
                                      F %

            SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING A UNIVERSAL
      DECENTRALIZED SOLUTION FOR VERIFICATION OF USERS WITH
                           CROSS-VERIFICATION FEATURES
 5 (01)    This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Patent Application No.
   15/335,344, which was filed on 26 October 2016, and which is incorporated herein in
   its entirety by reference.
   FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
   (02)    This disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing a universal
10 decentralized solution for verification of users with cross-verification features.
   BACKGROUND
   (03)    Currently, systems and methods for securing information related to an
   individual is lacking in various ways. There is a need in the art for enhanced
   methods of securing information related to documents and the like. For example,
15 there is a need in the art for enhanced methods related to biometric security.
   SUMMARY
   (04)    Some implementations according to the present technology are directed to
   using software to improve computer functionality by addressing the issue of security.
   Regarding security, it is desirable to be able to store information associated with an
20 individual (user) in a secure fashion. In some implementations, it may be desirable
   for the user to have the capability to allow an entity (e.g., a business, institution, etc.)
   to access that information. In some implementations, a user's biometric data and
   privacy will be well protected while sharing biometric data with the public and/or
   others in a blockchain. Some implementations according to the present technology
                                                1

   relate to distributed ledger technology. The present disclosure includes enhanced
   methods of biometric security of via face, retina, iris, fingerprint, and applied
   encrypted images generating a biometric authentication code applied/tagged directly
   to any data format that is utilized within a distributed ledger. The data output may be
 5 further enhanced by the extraction of geo-location and connection datasets.
   (05)    One current problem that exists in the prior art is where, for example, Firm A
   has products and clients Firm B wants to use and vice versa. However, in order to
   currently cross-sell, each firm may have to give up some of their clients to the other
   in order to perform that business by utilizing (1) a distributed ledger (each firm is able
10 to perform a keyword lookup to identify the number of clients Firm A has under that
   criteria); and (2) biometric verification tied directly to clients (from AML, KYC, and/or
   other documentation, each firm knows for certainty that those clients documents and
   digital identity qualified via biometric authentication are verifiable).
   (06)    In some implementations, a method and associated dashboard are
15 contemplated. There may be an associated approval method running in a mobile
   application that facilitates each firm exchanging basic and premium profiles of a
   count of clients in order to cross-sell, with the clients' approval. If there is more than
   one firm, this may be accomplished in a one-to-one fashion or a many-to-many
   cross-matching fashion.
20 (07)    One aspect of the disclosure may relate to a system configured for a universal
   decentralized solution for verification of users with cross-verification features. The
   system may include one or more hardware processors and/or other components.
   The one or more hardware processors may be configured by machine-readable
   instructions to receive from a first entity, at a blockchain trust utility, information
                                                  2

   related to one or more verified first documents, the one or more verified first
   documents associated with a first user. The one or more hardware processors may
   be configured to receive from a second entity, at the blockchain trust utility, a request
   for the information related to the one or more verified documents associated with the
 5 first user. The one or more hardware processors may be configured to, upon
   receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, an approval of the request
   for the information related to the one or more verified documents associated with the
   first user, give access, by the blockchain trust utility, to the second entity to obtain
   access to information related to the one or more verified documents associated with
10 the first user. The one or more hardware processors may be configured to, upon
   receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, a denial of the request for
   the information related to the one or more verified documents associated with the
   first user, deny access, by the blockchain trust utility, to the second entity to obtain
   access to information related to the one or more verified documents associated with
15 the first user.
   (08)    Another aspect of the disclosure may relate to a method for providing a
   universal decentralized solution for verification of users with cross-verification
   features, the method being performed by one or more hardware processors
   configured by machine-readable instructions. The method may include receiving
20 from a first entity, at a blockchain trust utility, information related to one or more
   verified first documents, the one or more verified first documents associated with a
   first user. The method may include receiving from a second entity, at the blockchain
   trust utility, a request for the information related to the one or more verified
   documents associated with the first user. The method may include, upon receiving
25 from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, an approval of the request for the
                                                   3

   information related to the one or more verified documents associated with the first
   user, giving access, by the blockchain trust utility, to the second entity to obtain
   access to information related to the one or more verified documents associated with
   the first user. The method may include, upon receiving from the first user, at the
 5 blockchain trust utility, a denial of the request for the information related to the one or
   more verified documents associated with the first user, denying access, by the
   blockchain trust utility, to the second entity to obtain access to information related to
   the one or more verified documents associated with the first user.
   (09)    These and other features, and characteristics of the present technology, as
10 well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure
   and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture, will become more
   apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims
   with reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which form a part of this
   specification, wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the
15 various figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that the drawings are for
   the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of
   the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims, the singular
   form of "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
   otherwise.
20 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   (10)    FIG. 1 illustrates a system for providing a universal decentralized solution for
   verification of users with cross-verification features, in accordance with one or more
   implementations.
                                                 4

   (11)    FIG. 2 is a schematic showing how entities may communicate with a
   blockchain trust utility, in accordance with one or more implementations
   (12)    FIG. 3 illustrates an overview of a blockchain trust utility with geo-location, in
   accordance with one or more implementations.
 5 (13)    FIG. 4 illustrates an applied blockchain overview, in accordance with one or
   more implementations.
   (14)    FIG. 5 illustrates a method for providing a universal decentralized solution for
   verification of users with cross-verification features, in accordance with one or more
   implementations.
10 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   (15)    FIG. 1 illustrates a system 100 for providing a universal decentralized solution
   for verification of users with cross-verification features, in accordance with one or
   more implementations. In some implementations, system 100 may include one or
   more servers 102. The server(s) 102 may be configured to communicate with one or
15 more computing platforms 104 according to a client/server architecture, a peer-to
   peer architecture, and/or other architectures. The users may access system 100 via
   computing platform(s) 104.
   (16)    The server(s) 102 may be configured to execute machine-readable
   instructions 106. The machine-readable instructions 106 may include one or more of
20 a receiving verified documents component 108, a receiving information request
   component 110, a receiving user decision component 112, an approval/denial
   component 114, and/or other machine-readable instruction components.
                                                  5

   (17)    The machine-readable instructions 106 may be executable to establish
   verification addresses on a block chain. Generally speaking, a block chain is a
   transaction database shared by some or all nodes participating in system 100. Such
   participation may be based on the Bitcoin protocol, Ethereum protocol, and/or other
 5 protocols related to digital currencies and/or block chains. A full copy of the block
   chain contains every transaction ever executed in an associated digital currency. In
   addition to transactions, other information may be contained by the blockchain, such
   as described further herein.
   (18)    The blockchain may be based on several blocks. A block may include a
10 record that contains and confirms one or more waiting transactions. Periodically
   (e.g., roughly every one minute), a new block including transactions and/or other
   information may be appended to the blockchain. In some implementations, a given
   block in the blockchain contains a hash of the previous block. This may have the
   effect of creating a chain of blocks from a genesis block (i.e., the first block in the
15 block chain) to a current block. The given block may be guaranteed to come
   chronologically after a previous block because the previous block's hash would
   otherwise not be known. The given block may be computationally impractical to
   modify once it is included in the block chain because every block after it would also
   have to be regenerated.
20 (19)    A given verification address may include a specific location on the blockchain
   where certain information is stored. In some implementations, an individual
   verification address may be referred to as an "AtenVerify Address."
   (20)    The receiving verified documents component 108 may be configured to
   receive from a first entity, at a blockchain trust utility, information related to one or
                                                 6

   more verified first documents. The one or more verified first documents may be
   associated with a first user (individual). The first entity may include one or more of
   an institution, business, company, and/orother entities. In some implementations,
   the blockchain trust utility of the present technology may differ from a standard
 5 blockchain. It may differ in that although the present technology may utilize an
   Ethereum blockchain (or any other type of blockchain), not tied to any
   cryptocurrency, the Ethereum blockchain and/or Ethereum private blockchain, may
   be created to be suited for various things. Some examples may include integrating
   components related to biometric tagging and/or biometric encryption of
10 documentation held within the blockchain. The use of datasets, while ensuring
   client/individual data privacy and adhering to rules for the global data processing
   directive is envisioned.
   (21)    The blockchain trust utility may be a closed loop trust utility private blockchain
   in some implementations. In some implementations, the closed loop trust utility
15 private blockchain may be made country-specific. In some implementations, due to
   data protection and information communication office rules in different countries, the
   blockchain may not be operated as a decentralized model. Instead, the blockchain
   may be operated as a closed-loop or centralized model. One reason some
   implementations may be country-specific is the scenario where a first country and/or
20 business does not want confidential and/or secure information to be shared or
   accessed by a second country and/or business. The blockchain may be enabled to
   have separate implementations for country-specific practices. It should be noted that
   the blockchain may be operated as either a centralized model or a decentralized
   model, in various implementations.
                                                 7

   (22)    In some implementations, the information related to the one or more verified
   documents associated with the first user may be encrypted with a first key and a
   second key. The first key may a server key (e.g., a private key) that is stored on a
   backend server. The second key may be a client key that is a hash of biometric data
 5 associated with the first user. In some implementations, the first and second keys
   may be applied to the blockchain immutable ID for hyper-encryption of sensitive data
   formats and/or associated documentation.
   (23)    Receiving information request component 110 may be configured to receive
   from a second entity, at the blockchain trust utility, a request for the information
10 related to the one or more verified documents associated with the first user. The
   second entity may include one or more of an institution, business, company, and/or
   other entities.
   (24)    Receiving user decision component 112 may be configured to receive a
   decision (to give access or deny access) from the first user regarding the request for
15 the information related to the one or more verified documents associated with the
   first user at the blockchain trust utility.
   (25)    In some implementations, approval/denial component 114 may be configured
   to give or deny access to the first entity. If the request for the information is
   approved by the first user, access may be given by the blockchain trust utility for the
20 second entity to obtain access to the information. Likewise, if the request for the
   information is not approved by the first user, access may be denied by the
   blockchain trust utility for the second entity to obtain access to the information. In
   some implementations, the blockchain trust utility holds and applies biometric
   authentication code validation against information related to the one or more verified
                                                 8

   documents associated with the first user. In some implementations, the first user
   may be notified if information related to the one or more verified documents
   associated with the first user is accessed by authorities or others.
   (26)     System 100 may be configured to associate identifiers with individuals having
 5 previously verified personal identities. For example, a first identifier may be
   associated a first individual. The first individual may have a previously verified
   personal identity. Generally speaking, an identifier may include one or more of a
   number, an alphanumeric code, a username, and/or other information that can be
   linked to an individual. In some implementations, an individual identifier may be
10 referred to as an "Aten ID."
   (27)     In accordance with some implementations, an individual having a previously
   verified personal identity may have obtained the previously verified personal identity
   through a variety of approaches. For example, in some implementations the
   individual may be required to provide evidence of the individual's identity. Such
15 evidence (the information referred to above) may include one or more of providing a
   copy of a government issued identification (e.g., passport and/or driver's license),
   providing a copy of mail received by the individual (e.g., a utility bill), evidence
   provided by a third party, and/or other evidence on an individual's identity. The
   evidence may be provided to an entity associated with server(s) 102.
20 (28)     System 100 may be configured to assign verification addresses on a block
   chain to the individuals. A given verification address may include a public key and a
   private key. By way of example, a first verification address may be assigned to the
   first individual. The first verification address may include a first public key and a first
   private key.
                                                 9

   (29)    Generally speaking, a public and private key-pair may be used for encryption
   and decryption according to one or more public key algorithms. By way of non
   limiting example, a key pair may be used for digital signatures. Such a key pair may
   include a private key for signing and a public key for verification. The public key may
 5 be widely distributed, while the private key is kept secret (e.g., known only to its
   proprietor). The keys may be related mathematically, but calculating the private key
   from the public key is unfeasible.
   (30)    In some implementations, system 100 may be configured such that private
   keys may be stored within computing platform(s) 104. For example, the first private
10 key may be stored within a computing platform 104 and/or other locations associated
   with the first individual. In accordance with some implementations, a private key
   may be stored in one or more of a "verify.dat" file, a SIM card, and/or other locations.
   (31)    In some implementations, system 100 may be configured such that multiple
   verification addresses may be assigned to separate individuals. For example, in
15 addition to the first verification address, a second verification address may be
   assigned to the first individual. One or more additional verification addresses may
   be assigned to the first individual, in accordance with one or more implementations.
   (32)    System 100 may be configured to record identifiers and biometric data
   associated with the individuals at corresponding verification addresses. For
20 example, the first identifier and first biometric data associated with the first individual
   may be recorded at the first verification address. Recording information at a given
   verification address may include recording a hash or other encrypted representation
   of the information. In some implementations, different biometric data may be
   recorded at multiple verification addresses assigned to a single given individual. For
                                                 10

   example, in addition to the first identifier and the first biometric data associated with
   the first individual (first user) being recorded at the first verification address, the first
   identifier and second biometric data associated with the first individual may be
   recorded at a second verification address.
 5 (33)    Generally speaking, biometric data may include metrics related to human
   characteristics. Biometric identifiers are distinctive, measurable characteristics that
   can be used to label and describe individuals. Biometric identifiers typically include
   physiological characteristics, but may also include behavioral characteristics and/or
   other characteristics. Physiological characteristics may be related to the shape of an
10 individual's body. Examples of physiological characteristics used as biometric data
   may include one or more of fingerprint, palm veins, face recognition, DNA, palm
   print, hand geometry, iris recognition, retina, odor or scent, and/or other physiological
   characteristics. Behavioral characteristics may be related to a pattern of behavior of
   an individual. Examples of behavioral characteristics used as biometric data may
15 include one or more of typing rhythm, gait, voice, and/or other behavioral
   characteristics.
   (34)    The biometric data may include one or more of an image or other visual
   representation of a physiological characteristic, a recording of a behavioral
   characteristic, a template of a physiological characteristic and/or behavioral
20 characteristic, and/or other biometric data. A template may include a synthesis of
   relevant features extracted from the source. A template may include one or more of
   a vector describing features of a physiological characteristic and/or behavioral
   characteristic, a numerical representation of a physiological characteristic and/or
                                                 11

   behavioral characteristic, an image with particular properties, and/or other
   information.
   (35)    Biometric data may be received via computing platforms 104 associated with
   the individuals. For example, biometric data associated with a first individual may be
 5 received via a first computing platform 104 associated with the first individual. The
   first computing platform 104 may include an input device (not depicted) configured to
   capture and/or record a physiological characteristic and/or behavioral characteristic
   of the first individual. Examples of such an input device may include one or more of
   a camera and/or other imaging device, a fingerprint scanner, a microphone, an
10 accelerometer, and/or other input devices.
   (36)    System 100 may be configured to provide an interface for presentation to
   individuals via associated computing platforms 104. The interface may include a
   graphical user interface presented via individual computing platforms 104.
   According to some implementations, the interface may be configured to allow a given
15 individual to add or delete verification addresses assigned to the given individual so
   long as at least one verification address is assigned to the given individual.
   (37)    In some implementations, system 100 may be configured to access and/or
   manage one or more user profiles and/or user information associated with users of
   system 100. The one or more user profiles and/or user information may include
20 information stored by server(s) 102, one or more of the computing platform(s) 104,
   and/or other storage locations. The user profiles may include, for example,
   information identifying users (e.g., a username or handle, a number, an identifier,
   and/or other identifying information), security login information (e.g., a login code or
   password), system account information, subscription information, digital currency
                                               12

   account information (e.g., related to currency held in credit for a user), relationship
   information (e.g., information related to relationships between users in system 100),
   system usage information, demographic information associated with users,
   interaction history among users in system 100, information stated by users, purchase
 5 information of users, browsing history of users, a computing platform identification
   associated with a user, a phone number associated with a user, and/or other
   information related to users.
   (38)    The machine-readable instructions 106 may be executable to perform block
   chain-based multifactor personal identity verification using the verification addresses.
10 (39)    System 100 may be configured to receive one or more identifiers in
   connection with one or more requests to verify an identity of one or more individuals.
   For example, the first identifier may be received in connection with a request to verify
   an identity of the first individual. Requests for identity verification may be provided in
   connection with and/or related to financial transactions, information exchanges,
15 and/or other interactions. Requests may be received from other individuals and/or
   other third parties.
   (40)    System 100 may be configured to extract the biometric data associated with
   the one or more individuals from the corresponding verification addresses. For
   example, the first biometric data associated with the first individual may be extracted
20 from the first verification address. Extracting information (e.g., biometric data) from a
   verification address may include decrypting information.
   (41)    According to some implementations, system 100 may be configured such
   that, responsive to receiving the request to verify the identity of the first individual, a
   prompt may be provided to the first individual for biometric data matching the first
                                               13

   biometric data and a private key matching the first private key. The prompt may be
   conveyed via a computing platform 104 associated with the first individual. The
   prompt may be conveyed via a graphical user interface and/or other user interface
   provided by the computing platform 104 associated with the first individual. The
 5 prompt may include an indication that is one or more of visual, audible, haptic, and/or
   other indications.
   (42)    In some implementations, system 100 may be configured such that,
   responsive to receiving the request to verify the identity of the first individual, a
   prompt may be provided to a computing platform 104 associated with the first
10 individual. The prompt may cause the computing platform 104 to automatically
   provide, to server(s) 102, biometric data matching the first biometric data and/or a
   private key matching the first private key.
   (43)    System 100 may be configured to verify the identity of the one or more
   individuals upon, or in response to, receiving matching biometric data and private
15 keys. For example, the personal identity of the first individual may be verified upon
   receipt of (1) biometric data matching the first biometric data and (2) a private key
   matching the first private key. Verifying the personal identity of the first individual
   may include comparing stored information with newly received information.
   (44)    According to some implementations, identity system 100 may be configured
20 such that the personal identity of the first individual may be verified upon receipt of
   (1) biometric data matching the first biometric data or the second biometric data and
   (2) a private key matching the first private key. Such implementations may provide
   so-called "M-of-N" signatures for identity verification where some subset of a larger
   set of identifying information is required.
                                                 14

   (45)    In some implementations, system 100 may be configured such that the
   biometric data matching the first biometric data and the private key matching the first
   private key may be used to sign the verification of the personal identity of the first
   individual.
 5 (46)    In some implementations, at least one dedicated node performs the signing of
   the verification of the personal identity of the first individual or user. A given
   dedicated node may include one or more of server(s) 102. The given dedicated
   node may be a public node or a private node configured for creating new blocks
   and/or for signing verification.
10 (47)    FIG. 2 is a schematic 200 showing how entities may communicate with a
   blockchain trust utility 202, in accordance with one or more implementations.
   Blockchain trust utility 202 may receive from a first entity 204, information related to
   one or more verified first documents 206, the one or more verified first documents
   206 associated with a first user.
15 (48)    In some implementations, blockchain trust utility 202 may receive from a
   second entity 208 a request for the information related to the one or more verified
   documents 206 associated with the first user. One or more documents 206 may be
   encrypted using, for example, an entity key to provide unique access.
   (49)    In some implementations, blockchain trust utility 202 may receive a decision
20 (approval or denial) from the first user, regarding the request for the information
   related to the one or more verified documents associated with the first user.
   (50)    In some implementations, system 100 may give (grant) or deny access to the
   first user. If the request for the information is approved by the first user, access may
   be given by blockchain trust utility 202 for second entity 208 to obtain access to the
                                                 15

   information. Likewise, if the request for the information is not approved by the first
   user, access may be denied by blockchain trust utility 202 for second entity 208 to
   obtain access to the information.
   (51)    FIG. 3 illustrates an overview 300 of blockchain trust utility 202 with geo
 5 location, in accordance with one or more implementations. Location data may be
   any information about an individual's current location, or about their movements in
   the past, which can be linked to them. In some implementations, the types of data
   collected and applicable may include: base station data Received Signal Strength
   Indicator (RSSI), Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA), and Angle Of Arrival (AOA),
10 GPS data, WIFI Access points (including Medium Access Control (MAC) addresses
   via mobile or passive scanning); static geo-location, dynamic/ongoing geolocation,
   and/or service set IDs (SSIDs), The use of keyhole markup language (KML) files to
   create datasets is contemplated; however, the use of any location-based dataset that
   utilizes markup languages is contemplated.
15 (52)    In some embodiments, certain rules for geo-location may be followed. A legal
   framework may be the data protection directive (95/46/EC). It may apply in cases
   where personal data is being processed as a result of the processing of location
   data. The e-privacy directive (2002/58/EC, as revised by 2009/136/EC) applies to
   the processing of base station data by public electronic communication services and
20 networks (telecom operators). In some implementations, blockchain trust utility 202
   generically holds and applies biometric code validation against one or more of anti
   money laundering (AML) documents, know your customer (KYC) documents, know
   your business (KYB) documents, know your person/process (KYP) documents,
                                               16

   extraneous documents linked to businesses and individuals, various authentication
   credentials, and/or other items.
   (53)    FIG. 4 illustrates an applied blockchain overview 400, in accordance with one
   or more implementations. As shown and described in the figure, a privacy
 5 permissioning administration layer for the blockchain is envisioned. It may be built
   on, for example, an Ethereum blockchain. As shown, there may be a mechanism for
   the storage of files (e.g., biometric data, etc.). These items may be coupled with an
   application programming interface (API) and, interalia, a BigChainDB. This may be
   coupled with, for example, a biometric app and a website, among other things.
10 (54)    In some implementations, server(s) 102, computing platform(s) 104, and/or
   external resources 122 may be operatively linked via one or more electronic
   communication links. For example, such electronic communication links may be
   established, at least in part, via a network such as the Internet and/or other
   networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting, and that the
15 scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which server(s) 102, computing
   platform(s) 104, and/or external resources 122 may be operatively linked via some
   other communication media.
   (55)    A given computing platform 104 may include one or more processors
   configured to execute machine-readable instructions. The machine-readable
20 instructions may be configured to enable an expert or user associated with the given
   computing platform 104 to interface with system 100 and/or external resources 122,
   and/or provide other functionality attributed herein to computing platform(s) 104. By
   way of non-limiting example, the given computing platform 104 may include one or
   more of a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a handheld computer, a tablet
                                                17

   computing platform, a NetBook, a Smartphone, a gaming console, and/or other
   computing platforms.
   (56)    External resources 122 may include sources of information, hosts, and/or
   providers of virtual environments outside of system 100, external entities
 5 participating with system 100, and/or other resources. In some implementations,
   some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources 100 may be
   provided by resources included in system 100.
   (57)    Server(s) 102 may include electronic storage 124, one or more processors
   126, and/or other components. Server(s) 102 may include communication lines, or
10 ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and/or other computing
   platforms. Illustration of server(s) 102 in FIG. 1 is not intended to be limiting.
   Server(s) 102 may include a plurality of hardware, software, and/or firmware
   components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to
   server(s) 102. For example, server(s) 102 may be implemented by a cloud of
15 computing platforms operating together as server(s) 102.
   (58)    Electronic storage 124 may comprise non-transitory storage media that
   electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage
   124 may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally (i.e.,
   substantially non-removable) with server(s) 102 and/or removable storage that is
20 removably connectable to server(s) 102 via, for example, a port (e.g., a USB port, a
   firewire port, etc.) or a drive (e.g., a disk drive, etc.). Electronic storage 124 may
   include one or more of optically readable storage media (e.g., optical disks, etc.),
   magnetically readable storage media (e.g., magnetic tape, magnetic hard drive,
   floppy drive, etc.), electrical charge-based storage media (e.g., EEPROM, RAM,
                                                  18

   etc.), solid-state storage media (e.g., flash drive, etc.), and/or other electronically
   readable storage media. Electronic storage 124 may include one or more virtual
   storage resources (e.g., cloud storage, a virtual private network, and/or other virtual
   storage resources). Electronic storage 124 may store software algorithms,
 5 information determined by processor(s) 126, information received from server(s)
   102, information received from computing platform(s) 104, and/or other information
   that enables server(s) 102 to function as described herein.
   (59)    Processor(s) 126 may be configured to provide information processing
   capabilities in server(s) 102. As such, processor(s) 126 may include one or more of
10 a digital processor, an analog processor, a digital circuit designed to process
   information, an analog circuit designed to process information, a state machine,
   and/or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although
   processor(s) 126 is shown in FIG. 1 as a single entity, this is for illustrative purposes
   only. In some implementations, processor(s) 126 may include a plurality of
15 processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same
   device, or processor(s) 126 may represent processing functionality of a plurality of
   devices operating in coordination. Processor(s) 126 may be configured to execute
   machine-readable instruction components 108, 110, 112, 114, and/or other machine
   readable instruction components. Processor(s) 126 may be configured to execute
20 machine-readable instruction components 108, 110, 112, 114, and/or other machine
   readable instruction components by software; hardware; firmware; some
   combination of software, hardware, and/or firmware; and/or other mechanisms for
   configuring processing capabilities on processor(s) 126. As used herein, the term
   "machine-readable instruction component" may refer to any component or set of
25 components that perform the functionality attributed to the machine-readable
                                                19

   instruction component. This may include one or more physical processors during
   execution of processor readable instructions, the processor readable instructions,
   circuitry, hardware, storage media, or any other components.
   (60)    It should be appreciated that although machine-readable instruction
 5 components 108, 110, 112, 114 are illustrated in FIG. 1 as being implemented within
   a single processing unit, in implementations in which processor(s) 126 includes
   multiple processing units, one or more of machine-readable instruction components
   108, 110, 112, and/or 114 may be implemented remotely from the other machine
   readable instruction components. The description of the functionality provided by the
10 different machine-readable instruction components 108, 110, 112, and/or 14
   described below is for illustrative purposes, and is not intended to be limiting, as any
   of machine-readable instruction components 108, 110, 112, and/or 114 may provide
   more or less functionality than is described. For example, one or more of machine
   readable instruction components 108, 110, 112, and/or 114 may be eliminated, and
15 some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of machine-readable
   instruction components 108, 110, 112, and/or 114. As another example,
   processor(s) 126 may be configured to execute one or more additional machine
   readable instruction components that may perform some or all of the functionality
   attributed below to one of machine-readable instruction components 108, 110, 112,
20 and/or 114.
   (61)    FIG. 5 illustrates a method 500 for providing a universal decentralized solution
   for verification of users with cross-verification features, in accordance with one or
   more implementations. The operations of method 500 presented below are intended
   to be illustrative. In some implementations, method 500 may be accomplished with
                                                 20

   one or more additional operations not described, and/or without one or more of the
   operations discussed. Additionally, the order in which the operations of method 500
   are illustrated in FIG. 5 and described below is not intended to be limiting.
   (62)    In some implementations, one or more operations of method 500 may be
 5 implemented in one or more processing devices (e.g., a digital processor, an analog
   processor, a digital circuit designed to process information, an analog circuit
   designed to process information, a state machine, and/or other mechanisms for
   electronically processing information). The one or more processing devices may
   include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method 500
10 in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium.
   The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured
   through hardware, firmware, and/or software to be specifically designed for
   execution of one or more of the operations of method 500.
   (63)    At an operation 502, method 500 may include receiving from a first entity, at a
15 blockchain trust utility, information related to one or more verified first documents
   206, one or more verified first documents 206 being associated with a first user.
   Operation 502 may be performed by one or more hardware processors configured to
   execute a machine-readable instruction component that is the same as or similar to
   receiving verified documents component 108 (as described in connection with FIG.
20 1), in accordance with one or more implementations.
   (64)    At an operation 504, method 500 may include receiving from second entity
   208, at blockchain trust utility 202, a request for the information related to one or
   more verified documents 206 associated with the first user. Operation 504 may be
   performed by one or more hardware processors configured to execute a machine
                                                21

   readable instruction component that is the same as or similar to receiving information
   request component 110 (as described in connection with FIG. 1), in accordance with
   one or more implementations.
   (65)    At an operation 506, method 500 may include receiving a decision (approval
 5 or denial) from the first user, at blockchain trust utility 202, regarding the request for
   access to the information, and/or the information itself, related to one or more
   verified documents 206 associated with the first user. Operation 506 may be
   performed by one or more hardware processors configured to execute a machine
   readable instruction component that is the same as or similar to receiving user
10 decision component 112 (as described in connection with FIG. 1), in accordance with
   one or more implementations.
   (66)    At an operation 508, method 500 may include giving or denying access to
   second entity 208. If the request for the information is approved by the first user,
   access may be given by blockchain trust utility 202 for second entity 208 to obtain
15 access to the information. Likewise, if the request for the information is not approved
   by the first user, access may be denied by the blockchain trust utility for second
   entity 208 to obtain access to the information. Operation 508 may be performed by
   one or more hardware processors configured to execute a machine-readable
   instruction component that is the same as or similar to approval/denial component
20 114 (as described in connection with FIG. 1), in accordance with one or more
   implementations.
   (67)    Exemplary implementations may facilitate storing personal data on the block
   chain. The personal data may be stored on the block chain in an encrypted way. A
   person may be identified at the block chain level with one or more of a private key, a
                                                22

   finger print, a finger print hash, an eye retina, an eye retina hash, and/or other
   unique information. The data stored may include or relate to one or more of a
   passport, an identification card, extracted passport information, a driver's license,
   extracted driver's license information, finger print, eye retina, and/or other
 5 information. According to some implementations, if some of the data is changed, a
   new record may be created for that person in the block chain. That is, all changes
   are added as new records. The old record will always be stored on the block chain.
   Generally speaking, all records on the block chain are stored forever and cannot be
   removed. More than one copy of the block chain will exist to ensure the records are
10 not manipulated.
   (68)    Exemplary implementations may facilitate access to personal data. There
   may be multiple access levels for the personal data in the block chain. Access
   controls may be grated on public/private key pairs levels. Examples of access levels
   may include one or more of Super Admin (full access to block chain), Authorities
15 country level (full read-only access), Authorities-state/local level (limited read-only
   access), Police and other services including Emergency (access to certain personal
   data by Finger Print/Eye retina of that person only), Participating Merchants (limited
   access), and/or other access levels.
   (69)    Exemplary implementations may facilitate verification check. There may be
20 multiple levels for how it is possible to check verification. For example, some
   implementations may ensure a person has a record at "Company" but no personal
   data is provided. Some implementations may ensure a person has a record at
   Company and get very basic personal information such as Full Name, DOB, Gender,
                                                23

   and/or other basic information. Some implementations may ensure a person has a
   record at Company and get all personal data.
   (70)    In some implementations, the technology may relate to using the PAS 1192-5
   standard to manage construction information and keep information related to
 5 architecture and building construction secure. PAS 1192-5 is a standard for security
   minded building information modeling (BIM) and smart asset management. These
   aspects may be related to relation to smart Cities, connected cities, connected
   houses, smart grids (e.g. energy, etc.), and/or the Ilike. These aspects may relate to
   the underlying security for Internet of Things (loT) for smart devices interconnecting
10 but at a construction, architectural, and/or grid based level.
   (71)    AS 1192-5:2015 is the specification for security-minded building information
   modelling, digital built environments and smart asset management.
   (72)    PAS 1192-5 specifies the processes that may assist organizations in
   identifying and implementing appropriate and proportionate measures to reduce the
15 risk of loss or disclosure of information that could impact on the safety and security
   of: personnel and other occupants or users of the built asset and its services; the
   built asset itself; asset information; and/or the benefits the built asset exists to
   deliver.
   (73)    Such processes can also be applied to protect against the loss, theft, and/or
20 disclosure of valuable commercial information and intellectual property.
   (74)    The PAS has been developed to integrate a security-minded approach into
   the construction lifecycle processes as specified in PAS 1192-2 and the asset
   management processes described in PAS 1192-3.
                                                24

   (75)     PAS may be specifically applied to the built asset, which may be a single
   building, a site or campus, and/or a portfolio or network of assets.
   (76)     These aspects may be related to the mobile data that can be processed,
   collated, and/or held within the blockchain (whether in regards to the biometric
 5 identity of an individual and/or client).
   (77)     Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose
   of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and
   preferred implementations, it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that
   purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations, but,
10 on the contrary, is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that
   are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example, it is to be
   understood that the present technology contemplates that, to the extent possible,
   one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more
   features of any other implementation.
                                               25

What is claimed is:
1.    A system for providing a universal decentralized solution for verification of
      users with cross-verification features, the system comprising:
                one or more hardware processors configured by machine-readable
      instructions to:
                       receive from a first entity, at a blockchain trust utility, information
      related to one or more verified first documents, the one or more verified first
      documents associated with a first user;
                       receive from a second entity, at the blockchain trust utility, a
      request for the information related to the one or more verified documents
      associated with the first user;
                       upon receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility,
      an approval of the request for the information related to the one or more
      verified documents associated with the first user, give access, by the
      blockchain trust utility, to the second entity to obtain access to information
      related to the one or more verified documents associated with the first user;
      and
                       upon receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, a
      denial of the request for the information related to the one or more verified
      documents associated with the first user, deny access, by the blockchain trust
      utility, to the second entity to obtain access to information related to the one or
      more verified documents associated with the first user.
2.    The system of claim 1, wherein the first entity is an institution or a business.
                                             26

3. The system of claim 1, wherein the second entity is an institution or a
   business.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the blockchain trust utility holds and applies
   biometric authentication code validation against information related to the one
   or more verified documents associated with the first user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first user is notified if information related to
   the one or more verified documents associated with the first user is accessed
   by authorities.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the blockchain trust utility is a closed loop
   trust utility private blockchain.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the closed loop trust utility private blockchain
   can be made country-specific.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the information related to the one or more
   verified documents associated with the first user is encrypted with a first key
   and a second key.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first key is a server key that is stored on a
   backend server.
                                      27

10. The system of claim 8, wherein the second key is a client key that is a hash of
    biometric data associated with the first user.
11. A method for providing a universal decentralized solution for verification of
    users with cross-verification features, the method being performed by one or
    more hardware processors configured by machine-readable instructions, the
    method comprising:
            receiving from a first entity, at a blockchain trust utility, information
    related to one or more verified first documents, the one or more verified first
    documents associated with a first user;
            receiving from a second entity, at the blockchain trust utility, a request
    for the information related to the one or more verified documents associated
    with the first user;
            upon receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, an
    approval of the request for the information related to the one or more verified
    documents associated with the first user, giving access, by the blockchain
    trust utility, to the second entity to obtain access to information related to the
    one or more verified documents associated with the first user; and
            upon receiving from the first user, at the blockchain trust utility, a denial
    of the request for the information related to the one or more verified
    documents associated with the first user, denying access, by the blockchain
    trust utility, to the second entity to obtain access to information related to the
    one or more verified documents associated with the first user.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the first entity is an institution or a business.
                                           28

13. The method of claim 1, wherein the second entity is an institution or a
    business.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the blockchain trust utility holds and applies
    biometric authentication code validation against information related to the one
    or more verified documents associated with the first user.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the first user is notified if information related
    to the one or more verified documents associated with the first user is
    accessed by authorities.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the blockchain trust utility is a closed loop
    trust utility private blockchain.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the closed loop trust utility private blockchain
    can be made country-specific.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the information related to the one or more
    verified documents associated with the first user is encrypted with a first key
    and a second key.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first key is a server key that is stored on
    a backend server.
                                       29

20. The method of claim 18, wherein the second key is a client key that is a hash
    of biometric data associated with the first user.
                                        30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
