                                          14
                                     ABSTRACT
   A spare wheel carrier (1) is described for attachment to a vehicle (3). A
   mounting plate (4) is secured to the bumper (2). A first support arm (5) has its
   lower end pivotally coupled to one end of a piston rod (6) of a hydraulic linear
 5 actuator (7). The other end of the arm (5) terminates in a pin-like protrusion
   (10) which engages a socket (11) connected to one end of a support beam (9)
   to allow rotation of the beam (9) about the arm (5). The other end of the beam
   (9) terminates in an over-centre latch (12) which engages with a catch plate
   (13). Another support arm (14) depends substantially orthogonally from the
10 beam (9) and terminates in a substantially U-shaped channel member (15)
   which contains a sliding support (17, 18) for a wheel and tyre assembly to be
   positioned sufficiently spaced from the bodywork of the vehicle (3). In use, a
   spare wheel and tyre assembly is secured to the sliding support (17, 18). The
   latch (12) is disengaged and the beam (9) is manually rotated about the arm
15 (5) to a position substantially orthogonal to the rear of the vehicle (3). The
   actuator (7) is activated and the beam (9) pivots downward until the wheel
   contacts the ground. The wheel and tyre assembly is then disengaged from
   the sliding support (17, 18).

                                            I
   TITLE:        VEHICLE WHEEL CARRIER
   THIS INVENTION relates to a vehicle wheel carrier. In particular, it is directed
   to an exterior-mounted spare wheel carrier for a vehicle which enables easier
   lifting and lowering of that spare wheel when required for use.
 5 Throughout this specification, unless the contrary is expressly stated, where
   a document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or discussed, this reference
   or discussion is not an admission that the document, act or item of knowledge
   or any combination thereof was, at the priority date, publicly available, known
   to the public, part of the common general knowledge, or known to be relevant
10 to an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.
   In off-road and sports utility vehicles, the spare wheel with its tyre are often
   carried on the exterior of such a vehicle, thus freeing up the interior vehicle
   space.     Various types of carriers are used for this purpose from simply
   appropriately positioned threaded bolts protruding from the rear door of the
15 vehicle to which the wheel/tyre assembly can be secured through the lug nut
   openings in the wheel to various cradle-like structures that are affixed to a rear
   door or to the rear bumper bar of the vehicle and which pivot horizontally
   outward from the rear of the vehicle to enable access to the rear door/s.
   Similar cradle-like structures are also used to support the spare wheel/tyre
20 assembly on a caravan or camper trailer. In yet other vehicles, particularly
   utility and tray-top-type vehicles, a cradle often supports the wheel/tyre
   assembly underneath the vehicle, the cradle being lowered or slid outwards to
   gain access in order to remove/replace the wheel/tyre assembly. A wheel and
   tyre assembly of such vehicles is significantly larger and heavier than the more
25 conventional passenger-type automobile and removing the spare wheel/tyre
   assembly to replace an existing wheel/tyre assembly in use on the vehicle due
   to a puncture and store the unusable assembly back by these known methods

                                             2
   can be difficult for an individual, especially for an individual of lighter frame,
   often requiring the assistance of another party, or can lead to injuries,
   particularly back injuries, if undertaken by a single individual.
   It is thus a general object of the present invention to overcome, or at least
 5 ameliorate, one or more of the above-mentioned disadvantages.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
   exterior-mountable spare wheel carrier for a vehicle comprising:
           a mounting means for attachment to a vehicle;
           a first support attached to said mounting means and adapted to pivot
10         about a substantially horizontal axis;
           a second support attached to said first support having a proximal end
           and distal end, said proximal end adapted to rotate about said first
           support;
           at least one third support attached to said second support, each said
15         third support including a securing assembly adapted to releasably
           secure a wheel and tyre assembly thereto; and
           an actuator means attached to said first support and adapted to impart
           reversible motion of said first support about said substantially horizontal
           axis.
20 Preferably, said actuator means is a linear actuator.

                                           3
   Preferably, said linear actuator is adapted to be affixed to the exterior
   underside of said vehicle.
   Preferably, said linear actuator is of an electro-mechanical or hydraulic type.
   More preferably, said linear actuator is of a hydraulic type, the hydraulic pump
 5 of which is adapted to be affixed in the interior of said vehicle.
   Preferably, said securing assembly has a range of movement to enable
   positioning of said wheel and tyre assembly at a required spacing from the
   exterior surface of said vehicle when said wheel carrier is in a stowed position.
   Preferably, said distal end of said second support includes a reversible
10 securing means to secure said distal end to said vehicle when said wheel
   carrier is in a stowed position to prevent rotation of said second support about
   said first support.
   Preferably, said securing means is an over-centre latch for connection to an
   appropriate catch plate affixed to said vehicle.
15 As a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a spare wheel
   carrier assembly for a vehicle comprising:
          a mounting means for attachment to a vehicle;
          a first support attached to said mounting means and adapted to pivot
          about a substantially horizontal axis;
20        a second support attached to said first support having a proximal end
          and distal end, said proximal end adapted to rotate about said first

                                            4
          support, and said distal end having a reversible securing means to
          secure said distal end to said vehicle when said wheel carrier is in a
          stowed position to prevent rotation of said second support about said
          first support, said securing means being an over-centre latch for
 5        connection to an appropriate catch plate on said vehicle;
          a said catch plate;
          at least one third support attached to said second support, each said
          third support including a securing assembly adapted to releasably
          secure a wheel and tyre assembly thereto, said securing assembly
10        having a range of movement to enable positioning of said wheel and tyre
          assembly at a required spacing from the exterior surface of said vehicle
          when said wheel carrier is in a stowed position; and
          an actuator for attachment to said first support to impart reversible
          motion of said first support about said substantially horizontal axis, when
15        required.
   Preferably, said actuator means of said wheel carrier assembly is a linear
   actuator.
   Preferably, said linear actuator of said wheel carrier assembly is selected from
   an electro-mechanical or hydraulic type.
20 Preferably, said linear actuator of said wheel carrier assembly is a hydraulic
   linear actuator.

                                           5
   Preferably, when said linear actuator of said wheel carrier assembly is a
   hydraulic linear actuator, said wheel carrier assembly includes a hydraulic
   pump for operating said hydraulic linear actuator.
   According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
 5 of use of a spare wheel carrier as hereinbefore described mounted to a vehicle,
   said method comprising the steps of in any appropriate sequence:
          releasing any said securing means from said vehicle;
          rotating said second support to a required position;
          activating said actuator means to pivot said first support until the tyre of
10        said wheel and tyre assembly on said third support connects with the
          ground surface;
          releasing said wheel and tyre assembly from said securing assembly on
          said third support;
          positioning said wheel and tyre assembly into a required use position;
15        and, if required,
          reversing said steps to secure a second wheel and tyre assembly to said
          wheel carrier of said vehicle.
   In one embodiment of the present invention, said mounting means is adapted
   to be attached to the rear of a vehicle.
20 In a second embodiment of the present invention, said mounting means is
   adapted to be attached to a rear bumper of a vehicle.

                                             6
   In a third embodiment of the present invention, said mounting means is
   adapted to be attached to the upper tray surface of a tray-top-type vehicle.
   In a fourth embodiment of the present invention, a multiple of said spare wheel
   carrier can be fitted to a vehicle.
 5 In one option of the present invention, said securing assembly is adapted to
   secure two adjacent wheel and tyre assemblies.
   In another option of the present invention, said second support supports a
   multiple of said third support.
   Optionally, at least one of said third support can include a fitting for mounting
10 a registration plate relevant to said vehicle.
   A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be described with
   reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
           FIG. 1 is a perspective illustration of a spare wheel carrier of the
           invention in a stowed position attached to the rear bumper of an off-road
15        vehicle;
           FIG. 2 is a perspective illustration of a component of the wheel carrier
          of FIG. 1;
           FIG. 3 is a perspective illustration of another component of the wheel
          carrier of FIG. 1;
20         FIG. 4 is a perspective illustration of yet a further component of the
          wheel carrier of FIG. 1;

                                              7
           FIG. 5 is a perspective illustration of the wheel carrier of FIG. 1 in a first
           use position; and
           FIG. 6 is a perspective illustration of the wheel carrier of FIGS. 1 and 5
           in a second use position.
 5 Referring to the FIGS., the wheel carrier (1) is suitable for attachment to the
   rear bumper (2) of an off-road vehicle (3) (FIG. 1). A mounting plate (4) is
   secured to the bumper (2) (FIG. 1) by any convenient means known in the art.
   A first support arm (5) has its lower end pivotally coupled to one end of a piston
   rod (6) of a hydraulic linear actuator (7) affixed to the exterior underside of the
10 vehicle (3) (FIG. 2). The associated hydraulic pump (8) is fitted to the rear
   interior of the vehicle (9) with the relevant hydraulic hoses passing through the
   bodywork of the vehicle (3) (FIG. 3). The actuator is operated by any suitable
   electrical control means known in the art. The other end of the arm (5)
   terminates in a pin-like protrusion (10) which engages a socket (11) connected
15 to one end of a support beam (9) to allow rotation of the beam (9) about the
   arm (5) (FIGS. 1 & 5). The other end of the beam (9) terminates in an over
   centre latch (12) (FIG. 5) which can engage with an associated catch plate (13)
   affixed to the rear bumper (2) of the vehicle (3) when the wheel carrier (1) is in
   its stowed position (FIG. 1). Another support arm (14) depends substantially
20 orthogonally from the beam (9) and terminates in a substantially U-shaped
   channel member (15) (FIGS. 1 & 4). Each side of the channel member (15)
   includes opposing slots (16) (FIG. 4, only one illustrated). A short hollow box
   beam (FIG. 4) has a spigot (17) which is a sliding fitwithin the channel member
   (15) and terminates at one end in a plate (18) from which extend a number of
25 threaded bolts (19) sufficient to secure a wheel/tyre assembly (not illustrated)
   through the typical lug nut openings in a vehicle wheel and held to the plate by
   conventional wheel nuts (20).         Opposing holes in the spigot (17) allow a
   conventional nut and bolt (21) to pass through. The interrelationship between

                                              8
   these opposing holes and the opposing slots (16) of the spigot (17) allow the
   position of the spigot (17) to be varied and then tightened into position by the
   nut and bolt (21) to position the plate (18) to ensure that the wheel and tyre
   assembly is sufficiently spaced from the bodywork of the vehicle (3) when the
 5 carrier (1) is in its stowed position. A fitting (22) for mounting a registration
   plate relevant to the vehicle (3) is attached to the plate (18) (FIGS. 1, 4, 5 & 6).
   In use, a spare wheel and tyre assembly is secured to the threaded bolts (19)
   of the plate (18) through the lug nut openings in the wheel and the wheel
   carrier (1) is positioned in its stowed position by engaging the over-centre latch
10 (12) with the catch plate (13).       To use the spare wheel, the latch (12) is
   disengaged and the beam (9) is manually rotated about the arm (5) to a
   position substantially orthogonal to the rear of the vehicle (3) (FIG. 5). The
   actuator (7) is activated and the beam (9) pivots downward until the wheel
   contacts the ground (FIG. 6). The wheel and tyre assembly is then disengaged
15 from the plate (18). As the wheel and tyre assembly is released in a vertical
   position, it is easily rolled into position adjacent any wheel to be changed on
   the vehicle (3).
   The present invention offers a number of advantages which include:
          can readily be adapted to fit any suitable vehicle;
20        enables the wheel/tyre assembly to remain in an upright position when
          released from the carrierallowing that assembly to be rolled into position
          rather than having to be lifted; and
          therefore significantly reduces the manul effort required by an individual
          to remove/replace a wheel/tyre assembly.

                                         9
  The terms "comprising" or "comprises" as used throughout the specification
  and claims are taken to specify the presence of the stated features, integers
  and components referred to but not preclude the presence or addition of one
  or more other feature/s, integer/s, component/s or group thereof.
5 It will be appreciated that the above described embodiments are only
  exemplification of the various aspects of the present invention and that
  modifications and alterations can be made thereto without departing from the
  inventive concept as defined in the following claims.

                                           10
                                      CLAIMS
1. An exterior-mountable spare wheel carrier for a vehicle comprising:
          a mounting means for attachment to a vehicle;
          a first support attached to said mounting means and adapted to pivot
          about a substantially horizontal axis;
          a second support having a proximal end and a distal end attached at or
          near said proximal end to said first support and adapted to rotate about
          the longitudinal axis of said first support;
          at least one third support attached to said second support, each said third
          support including a securing assembly adapted to releasably secure a
          wheel and tyre assembly thereto; and
          an actuator means attached to said first support and adapted to impart
          reversible motion of said first support about said substantially horizontal
          axis.
2. A spare wheel carrier as defined in Claim 1 wherein, said actuator means is a
   linear actuator.
3. A spare wheel carrier as defined in Claim 2 wherein, said linear actuator is
   adapted to be affixed to the exterior underside of said vehicle.
4. A spare wheel carrier as defined in Claim 3 wherein, said linear actuator is
   selected from an electro-mechanical or hydraulic type.

                                         11
   5.  A spare wheel carrier as defined in Claim 4 wherein, said linear actuator
       is of a hydraulic type, the hydraulic pump of which is adapted to be
       affixed in the interior of said vehicle.
   6.  A spare wheel carrier as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 5 wherein,
 5     said securing assembly has a range of movement to enable positioning
       of said wheel and tyre assembly at a required spacing from the exterior
       surface of said vehicle when said wheel carrier is in a stowed position.
   7.  A spare wheel carrier as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 6 wherein,
       said distal end of said second support includes a reversible securing
10     means to secure said distal end to said vehicle when said wheel carrier
       is in a stowed position to prevent rotation of said second support about
       said first support.
   8.  A spare wheel carrier as defined in Claim 7 wherein, said securing
       means is an over-centre latch for connection to an appropriate catch
15     plate affixed to said vehicle.
   9.  A spare wheel carrier as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 8 wherein at
       least one of said third support includes a fitting for mounting a
       registration plate relevant to said vehicle.
   10. A spare wheel carrier assembly for a vehicle comprising:
20             a mounting means for attachment to a vehicle;
               a first support attached to said mounting means and adapted to
               pivot about a substantially horizontal axis;

                                         12
              a second support attached to said first support having a proximal
              end and distal end, said proximal end adapted to rotate about said
              first support, and said distal end having a reversible securing
              means to secure said distal end to said vehicle when said wheel
 5            carrier is in a stowed position to prevent rotation of said second
              support about said first support, said securing means being an
              over-centre latch for connection to an appropriate catch plate on
              said vehicle;
              a said catch plate;
10            at least one third support attached to said second support, each
              said third support including a securing assembly adapted to
              releasably secure a wheel and tyre assembly thereto, said
              securing assembly having a range of movement to enable
              positioning of said wheel and tyre assembly at a required spacing
15            from the exterior surface of said vehicle when said wheel carrier
              is in a stowed position; and
              an actuator for attachment to said first support to impart reversible
              motion of said first support about said substantially horizontal
              axis, when required.
20 11. A spare wheel carrier assembly as defined in Claim 10 wherein, said
       actuator means is a linear actuator.
   12. A spare wheel carrier assembly as defined in Claim 11 wherein, said
       linear actuator is a hydraulic linear actuator.

                                        13
   13. A spare wheel carrier assembly as defined in Claim 12 which further
       includes a hydraulic pump for operating said hydraulic linear actuator.
   14. A method of use of a spare wheel carrier as defined in any one of
       Claims 7 to 9, said method comprising the steps of in any appropriate
 5     sequence:
             releasing any said securing means from said vehicle;
             rotating said second support to a required position;
             activating said actuator means to pivot said first support until the
             tyre of said wheel and tyre assembly on said third support
10           connects with the ground surface;
             releasing said wheel and tyre assembly from said securing
             assembly on said third support;
             positioning said wheel and tyre assembly into a required use
             position; and, if required,
15           reversing said steps to secure a second wheel and tyre assembly
             to said wheel carrier of said vehicle.

<removed-date>
                          1/6
<removed-apn>
                                           3
                    15
                                  14
                                                1
               2
               22
              13
                                                4
                                               10
                                           11
                                       5
                                  9
                         FIG. 1

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         6
                                      2/6
FIG. 2
             7

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         8
                                  3/6
FIG. 3

<removed-date>
                             4/6
                               16
                        3
<removed-apn>
              17
                                     20
              15
                                      19
              21
                                     20
                                     18
              14                          22
                                      19
               9
                   12          20
                            FIG. 4

<removed-date>
                    5/6
                   15       21
<removed-apn>
                                 22
              10
              11
               9
                                 14
                                 12
                   FIG. 5

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              15   14   9
         22
                                             6/6
FIG. 6

