ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to the prevention and/or treatment of metastatic cancer. Certain
example embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for preventing and/or
treating a metastatic cancer in a subject. The method comprises administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.

                                              1
       METHODS AND PRODUCTS FOR PREVENTING AND/OR TREATING
                                METASTATIC CANCER
PRIORITY CLAIM
[001]     This application claims priority to Australian provisional patent application
number 2012903874 filed on 6 September 2012, the contents of which is hereby
incorporated    by   reference.  This    application  is  a   divisional   application  of
AustralianPatent Application 2013313026, the entire contents of which are also to be
taken as incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD
[002]     The present disclosure relates to methods and products for preventing and/or
treating metastatic cancer.
BACKGROUND
[003]     Metastatic cancer, or metastatic disease, is the spread of a cancer from one
organ to another organ or another site in a subject. Metastasis is a complex series of
biological steps in which cancerous cells leave an original site and migrate to another
site in a subject via a number of different possible routes, such as via the bloodstream,
the lymphatic system, or by direct extension.
[004]     Once a cancer has metastasized, the treatment of metastatic cancer relies on the
same traditional techniques to treat primary cancer, such as radiosurgery, chemotherapy,
radiation therapy and surgery, or a combination of these interventions. In many cases,
however, the treatment options that are currently available are not able to cure the
metastatic cancer, although metastatic testicular cancer and thyroid cancer are notable
exceptions.
[005]     Metastatic cancer is also of particular concern as the incidence of some
cancers, such as breast cancer or melanoma, remains high in younger people resulting in
a profound effect on the number of productive years lost due to the illness.

                                             2
[006]    Melanoma, for example, is a cancer that has a very high incidence and
mortality rate. In some countries, melanoma is the most common type of cancer in
young adults. The mean age at diagnosis of melanoma is around 50 years, which is 10
 15 years earlier than the commoner diagnoses of prostate, bowel, and lung cancer.
Therefore, melanoma is second only to breast cancer in the number of productive years
lost.
[007]    The 15-year survival rates for localised melanoma exceed 50%, but fall to 30%
when there is nodal involvement, and to less than 2% when systemic involvement is
evident. Metastatic melanoma is essentially incurable, and as such treatment of
melanoma places a high emphasis on preventing metastasis of the primary cancer.
[008]    Single-agent dacarbazine chemotherapy, with modest response rates of 15
20%, remains the standard of care for treatment of metastatic melanoma as no
combination chemotherapy or biochemotherapy has demonstrated improved overall
survival in phase III randomised controlled trials. For example, while some proposed
vaccine biotherapies have targeted the immune response as a means to preventing
and/or treating melanoma, none of these biotherapies produces response or survival
rates higher than that of chemotherapy.
[009]    Metastatic breast cancer usually occurs several years after resection of the
primary breast cancer. Metastatic breast cancer cells frequently differ from the
preceding primary breast cancer in properties and may often develop resistance to
several lines of previous treatment and acquired increased metastatic potential. The
prognosis of metastatic breast cancer is often poor, as distant metastases are the cause of
about 90% of deaths due to breast cancer.
[0010]   It should also be added that an additional complication with respect to the
treatment of both primary and metastatic cancers is that treatment regimes involving
standard chemotherapeutic agents are known to have variable and unpredictable effects,
including efficacy and the extent of undesired side effects.

                                             3
[0011]   Accordingly, there is a need to provide improved methods and/or products to
address one or more problems in the prevention and/or treatment of metastatic cancer
and/or to provide one or more advantages.
SUMMARY
[0012]   The present disclosure relates to the prevention and/or treatment of metastatic
cancer.
[0013]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR.
[0014]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide use of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR in the preparation of a medicament for preventing
and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject.
[0015]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering
to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR.
[0016]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for reducing
metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0017]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for reducing
growth of a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to the
subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX
CKR.

                                            4
[0018]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inducing an
immune response to a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising
administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0019]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and one or more of a pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient, vehicle and/or additive.
[0020]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody to
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, wherein the
antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof inhibits a metastatic cancer.
[0021]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody that binds
to an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding
fragment of the antibody.
[0022]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody raised to an
epitope on an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen
binding fragment of the antibody.
[0023]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody that binds
to one or more amino acids or an epitope located in one or more of the following
regions of a human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids
 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, and amino acids 262 to 289, or an equivalent region
of the receptor in another species.
[0024]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody raised
against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more of polypeptide sequences
SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant of any of the aforementioned polypeptide
sequences.

                                              5
[0025]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of identifying
an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a cancer, the method comprising:
         identifying a test agent that modulates chemokine receptor CCX-CKR activity;
         determining the ability of the test agent to inhibit metastasis of a cancer; and
         identifying the test agent as an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a
         cancer.
[0026]   A non-naturally occurring polypeptide, an isolated polypeptide or a synthetic
polypeptide, the polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of one or more of
polypeptide sequences SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant or a fragment of any of
the aforementioned polypeptide sequences.
[0027]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a non-naturally
occurring or synthetic nucleic acid comprising one or more nucleic sequences selected
from SEQ ID NOs 1 to 4, the complement of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid
sequences, a RNA equivalent of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences, a
modified form of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences and/or a variant or
fragment of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences.
[0028]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a small interfering RNA
to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, wherein the small interfering RNA comprises one
or more nucleic sequences selected from SEQ ID NOs 1 to 4, the complement of any of
the aforementioned     nucleic   acid sequences,     a RNA equivalent of any of the
aforementioned nucleic acid sequences, a modified form of the aforementioned nucleic
acid sequences and/or a variant or fragment of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid
sequences.
[0029]   Other embodiments are disclosed herein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0030]   Certain embodiments are illustrated by the following figures. It is to be
understood that the following description is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting with respect to the description.

                                             6
[0031]    Figure 1 shows RNAi of CCX-CKR in B16 melanoma cells results in complete
rejection of melanoma in mice inoculated with the cells.
[0032]    Figure 2 shows RNAi knockdown of CCX-CKR inhibits lymphatic metastasis
of B16 melanoma cells in mice inoculated with the cells.
[0033]    Figure 3 shows loss of CCX-CKR results in the generation of an anti
melanoma immune response.
[0034]    Figure 4 shows CCX-CKR knockout mice are resistant to melanoma growth
and metastasis.
[0035]    Figure 5 shows the effect of anti-CCX-CKR antibodies on lung colonisation by
B16 melanoma cells.
[0036]    Figure 6 shows CCX-CKR knockout mice are resistant to breast cancer growth
and metastasis. (A) Effect on tumour volume. (B) Effect on tumour weight. C. Effect on
lung metastases.
[0037]    Figure 7 shows that knockdown of CCX-CKR on B16 melanoma cells restores
survival in mice inoculated with melanoma cells.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0038]    The present disclosure relates to the prevention and/or treatment of metastatic
cancer.
[0039]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to methods and
products that have one or more combinations of advantages. For example, some of the
advantages of the embodiments disclosed herein include one or more of the following:
providing improved efficacy of treatment of a metastatic cancer; providing improved
efficacy of treatment for specific types of metastatic cancers; providing a treatment of
metastatic cancer that may utilise an immune response; providing a treatment of
metastatic cancer that has reduced side effects; providing new products for preventing
and/or treating metastatic cancer; providing anti-metastatic cancer products with

                                               7
improved efficacy; providing anti-metastatic cancer agents with improved efficacy for
specific types of cancers; providing products that promote an immune response to a
metastatic cancer in the subject; providing anti-metastatic products that have reduced
side effects; and providing new methods of screening for candidate anti-metastatic
agents. Other advantages of certain embodiments of the present disclosure are also
disclosed herein.
[0040]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for preventing
and/or treating a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR.
[0041]    The present disclosure is based, at least in part, on the determination that the
inhibition of the activity of chemokine receptor CCX-CKR inhibits growth and
metastasis of cancers, such as melanoma cancer and breast cancer. Without being bound
by theory, at least part of the effect appears to involve an immune response to the cancer
being induced in the subject.
[0042]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering
to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR.
[0043]    The term "preventing", and related terms such as "prevention" and "prevent",
refer to obtaining a desired pharmacologic and/or physiologic effect in terms of
arresting or suppressing the appearance of one or more symptoms in the subject.
[0044]    The term "treatment", and related terms such as "treating" and "treat", refer to
obtaining a desired pharmacologic and/or physiologic effect in terms of improving the
condition of the subject, ameliorating, arresting, suppressing, relieving and/or slowing
the progression of one or more symptoms in the subject, a partial or complete
stabilization of the subject, a regression of the one or more symptoms, or a cure of a
disease, condition or state in the subject.

                                            8
[0045]    In certain embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a solid cancer.
In certain embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a carcinoma. In certain
embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a sarcoma. In certain
embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a lymphoma. In certain
embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a germ cell cancer. In certain
embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a blastoma. Other metastatic
cancers are contemplated.
[0046]    In certain embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a melanoma, a
breast cancer, a prostate cancer, an ovarian cancer, a lung cancer, a colorectal cancer, a
gastric cancer, a pancreatic cancer, a bladder cancer, an oesophageal cancer, an
urothelial cancer, a non-small cell lung cancer, a head & neck cancer, a testicular
cancer, an uterine cancer, a liver cancer, a renal cancer, a stomach cancer, a cerebral
tumour, a malignant myeloma, a lymphoproliferative tumour, a haematological cancer,
a CML, an AML, or a B-cell lymphoma. Other types of metastatic cancers are
contemplated.
[0047]    In certain embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a metastatic melanoma, breast
cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, or colorectal cancer. In certain embodiments,
the metastatic cancer is a metastasis of a melanoma, a breast cancer, a prostate cancer,
an ovarian cancer, or a colorectal cancer.
[0048]    In certain embodiments, the subject is human subject.
[0049]    In certain embodiments, the subject is a mammalian subject, a livestock animal
(such as a horse, a cow, a sheep, a goat, a pig), a domestic animal (such as a dog or a
cat) and other types of animals such as monkeys, rabbits, mice and laboratory animals.
Veterinary applications of the present disclosure are contemplated. Use of any of the
aforementioned animals as animal models is also contemplated.
[0050]    In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a cancer. Examples of
cancers are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a
solid cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a carcinoma. In
certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a sarcoma. In certain embodiments,

                                             9
the subject is suffering from a lymphoma. In certain embodiments, the subject is
suffering from a germ cell cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from
a blastoma. In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a haematological
cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject is suffering from a melanoma, a breast
cancer, a prostate cancer, an ovarian cancer, lung cancer, a colorectal cancer, a gastric
cancer, a pancreatic cancer, a bladder cancer, an oesophageal cancer, an urothelial
cancer, a non-small cell lung cancer, head & neck cancer, a testicular cancer, an uterine
cancer, a liver cancer, a renal cancer, a stomach cancer, a cerebral tumour, a malignant
myeloma, a CML, an AML, or a lymphoproliferative tumour. Other types of cancers are
contemplated.
[0051]   In certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a cancer. Examples of
cancers are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a
solid cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a carcinoma. In
certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a sarcoma. In certain embodiments,
the subject is susceptible to a lymphoma. In certain embodiments, the subject is
susceptible to a germ cell cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a
blastoma. In certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a haematological cancer.
In certain embodiments, the subject is susceptible to a melanoma, a breast cancer, a
prostate cancer, an ovarian cancer, lung cancer, a colorectal cancer, a gastric cancer, a
pancreatic cancer, a bladder cancer, an oesophageal cancer, an urothelial cancer, a non
small cell lung cancer, head & neck cancer, a testicular cancer, an uterine cancer, a liver
cancer, a renal cancer, a stomach cancer, a cerebral tumour, a malignant myeloma, a
CML, an AML or a lymphoproliferative tumour. Other types of cancers are
contemplated.
[0052]   In certain embodiments, the subject has an increased risk or likelihood of
suffering from a cancer. Examples of cancers are as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the subject has an increased risk or likelihood of suffering from a solid
cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject has an increased risk or likelihood of
suffering from a carcinoma. In certain embodiments, the subject has an increased risk or
likelihood of suffering from a sarcoma. In certain embodiments, the subject has an
increased risk or likelihood of suffering from a lymphoma. In certain embodiments, the
subject has an increased risk or likelihood of suffering from a germ cell cancer. In

                                            10
certain embodiments, the subject has an increased risk or likelihood of suffering from a
blastoma. In certain embodiments, the subject has an increased risk or likelihood of
suffering from a haematological cancer. In certain embodiments, the subject has an
increased risk or likelihood of suffering from a melanoma, a breast cancer, a prostate
cancer, an ovarian cancer, lung cancer, a colorectal cancer, a gastric cancer, a pancreatic
cancer, a bladder cancer, an oesophageal cancer, an urothelial cancer, a non-small cell
lung cancer, head & neck cancer, a testicular cancer, an uterine cancer, a liver cancer, a
renal cancer, a stomach cancer, a cerebral tumour, a malignant myeloma, a CML, an
AML or a lymphoproliferative tumour. Other types of cancers are contemplated.
[0053]   In certain embodiments, the subject is not undergoing treatment for a cancer as
described herein. In certain embodiments, the subject is undergoing treatment for a
cancer as described herein. In certain embodiments, the subject is undergoing
chemotherapeutic treatment for a cancer as described herein.
[0054]   In certain embodiments, the methods as described herein may be used to
reduce the growth and/or volume of a metastatic cancer in a subject.
[0055]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for reducing
growth and/or volume of a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising
administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0056]   In certain embodiments, the weight and/or volume of a tumour associated with
the metastatic cancer is reduced upon administration of the inhibitor. Methods for
determining tumour weight and/or volume are known, and include for example imaging
of a subject to determine these parameters in situ. In certain embodiments, the weight of
the tumour associated with the metastatic cancer is reduced by 30% or more, 40% or
more, 50% or more,     6 0% or more,  7 0%  or more,   8 0%  or more, or 9 0%  or more. In
certain embodiments, the volume of the tumour associated with the metastatic cancer is
reduced by 30% or more, 40% or more, 50% or more, 60% or more, 70% or more, 80%
or more, or 90% or more.

                                             11
[0057]   In certain embodiments, the weight and/or volume of a tumour associated with
the metastatic cancer is reduced upon administration of the inhibitor in combination
with one or more other pharmacological agents, such as a chemotherapeutic agent. In
certain embodiments, the weight of the tumour associated with the metastatic cancer
using such combination treatment is reduced by 30% or more,        4 0% or more, 50% or
more, 60% or more, 70% or more, 80% or more, or 90% or more. In certain
embodiments, the volume of the tumour associated with the metastatic cancer is reduced
by 30% or more, 40% or more, 50% or more, 60% or more, 70% or more, 80% or more,
or 90% or more.
[0058]   In certain embodiments, the methods as described herein may be used to
reduce growth of metastases in a subject. In certain embodiments, growth of metastases
in the subject is reduced.
[0059]   In certain embodiments, the methods as described herein may be used to
reduce metastatic load or burden in a subject. In certain embodiments, metastatic load or
burden in the subject is reduced.
[0060]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for reducing
metastasis of a cancer in a subject.
[0061]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method for reducing
metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject a
therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0062]   In certain embodiments, the number of metastases is reduced. In certain
embodiments, the number of metastases is reduced by 2 0% or more, 3 0% or more, 4 0%
or more, 50% or more,      6 0% or more,  7 0%  or more,  8 0% or more, or 9 0% or more.
Methods for determining metastatic load or burden are known, and include for example
imaging of a subject to determine this parameter in situ.
[0063]   In certain embodiments, the methods as described herein may be used to
reduce the number of metastases in a subject. In certain embodiments, the number of
metastases in the subject is reduced.

                                            12
[0064]   In certain embodiments, the methods as described herein may be used to
induce an immune response to the metastatic cancer in a subject.
[0065]   In certain embodiments, administering the inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR to the subject induces an immune response to the metastatic cancer in the
subject.
[0066]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR and thereby induce an immune response to the metastatic cancer in the
subject.
[0067]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inducing an
immune response to a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising
administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0068]   In certain embodiments, the methods as described herein may be used to
induce anti-tumour CD4+ and/or CD8+ cells in a subject. In certain embodiments,
administering the inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR to the subject induces
anti-tumour CD4+ and/or CD8+ cells.
[0069]   The CCX-CKR gene (also referred to as CCRL1 or CCR1 1) encodes a receptor
of the G protein-coupled receptor family, and is a receptor for C-C type chemokines. In
humans, the receptor is encoded by the gene with the Genbank accession number
AF 110640. The equivalent receptor in other species may be determined by a known
method. The amino acid sequence of the human receptor has the Genbank accession
number AF110640_1. Methods for determining the CCX-CKR gene and receptor in
other species are known and include for example nucleic acid and protein alignment
programs, such as BLAST.
[0070]   In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR is a human
receptor. In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR is an animal

                                             13
receptor. In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR is a mammalian
receptor.
[0071]    In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR is a full length
receptor. In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR is a part of a
receptor. In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR is a homolog,
paralog or ortholog of a receptor. In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR is a variant and/or fragment of the receptor, such as a variant of the receptor
arising from an alternatively spliced transcript.
[0072]    The term "inhibitor" as used herein refers to an agent, treatment, or
intervention that results directly or indirectly in a reduction of chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR expression, activity or function, including for example a decrease in
expression, a decrease in activity, an inhibitory alteration in the timing and/or location
of activity, or otherwise provide inhibitory control over activity. Other forms of
inhibition are contemplated.
[0073]    For example, an inhibitor may (i) act directly to alter the activity of a receptor,
such as altering the level of expression of the receptor, altering localisation of the
receptor, partially or completely removing the gene for the receptor, altering
internationalisation of the receptor or altering timing of receptor function; (ii) act to
alter the activity of a signalling pathway associated with an receptor; (iii) act to alter the
level and/or alter the activity of a ligand that binds to the receptor, such as altering the
synthesis of the ligand. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a selective inhibitor. In
certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a non-selective inhibitor.
[0074]    Examples of inhibitors include a drug, a small molecule, a protein, a
polypeptide, a lipid, a carbohydrate, a nucleic acid, an oligonucleotide, a ribozyme, a
biologic, an aptamer, a cofactor, a ligand, a ligand mimetic, a receptor, an enzyme, a
kinase, a phosphatase, a cytokine, a growth factor, a metal ion, a chelate, an antisense
nucleic acid, an inhibitor RNA, a microRNA, a siRNA, an antibody or antigen binding
part thereof, an antibody mimetic, an antagonist, an inhibitor, or a suppressor. Other
types of inhibitors are contemplated.

                                            14
[0075]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises a drug, a small molecule, a
protein, a polypeptide, a lipid, a carbohydrate, a nucleic acid, an oligonucleotide, a
ribozyme, a biologic, an aptamer, a cofactor, a ligand, a ligand mimetic, a receptor, an
enzyme, a kinase, a phosphatase, a cytokine, a growth factor, a metal ion, a chelate, an
antisense nucleic acid, an inhibitor RNA, a microRNA, a siRNA, an antibody or antigen
binding part thereof, an antibody mimetic, an antagonist, an inhibitor, or a suppressor.
[0076]    The term "activity" as used herein refers to the function of a species and
includes, for example, the level, the specificity, the ability to interact (directly and/or
indirectly) with and/or modify other species, the ability to signal, and the ability to
cause changes (directly and/or indirectly) in other cellular and/or non-cellular events.
Examples of modulating the activity of a species include, for example, changes in the
level of the species, changes in the localisation of the species, changes in the synthesis
and/or degradation rates of the species, changes in the timing of activity, changes in the
ability to interact with other species (such as a change in the ability of a ligand and a
receptor to interact), changes in the chemical composition of the species, changes in
signalling, and changes in cellular and/or non-cellular events affected by the species.
[0077]    An inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR may be synthesized, produced
or obtained commercially.
[0078]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide use of an inhibitor as
described herein in the preparation of a medicament for preventing and/or treating a
metastatic cancer in a subject.
[0079]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises one or more of a small
interfering RNA, an antisense RNA, a ligand for a CCX-CKR, a modification to a
ligand for a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, a gene knockout agent, a gene knockdown
agent or an antibody and/or an antigen binding part thereof.
[0080]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises one or more of a small
interfering RNA to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, an antisense RNA to a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR, a ligand for a CCX-CKR, a modification to a ligand for a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, a gene knockout agent to a chemokine receptor CCX-

                                             15
CKR, a gene knockdown agent to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR or an antibody
and/or an antigen binding part thereof to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0081]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a modulator of ligand binding to a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. Examples of such inhibitors include a ligand antagonist
or an antibody antagonist. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor reduces binding of a
ligand to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0082]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor modulates the binding of a ligand to a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a modulator of
one or more of CCL25 binding, CCL19 binding and CCL21 binding. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor inhibits the binding of a ligand to a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is an inhibitor of one or more of
CCL25 binding, CCL19 binding and CCL21 binding.
[0083]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor modulates the activity of a ligand for a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a modulator of
one or more of CCL25 activity, CCL19 activity and CCL21 activity. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor is an inhibitor of one or more of CCL25 activity, CCL19
activity and CCL21 activity.
[0084]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor modulates the synthesis of a ligand for a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor modulates the
synthesis of one or more of CCL25, CCL19 and CCL21. In certain embodiments, the
inhibitor inhibits the synthesis of one or more of CCL25, CCL19 and CCL21.
[0085]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor modulates the processing of a species that
forms a ligand for a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the
inhibitor modulates the processing of precursor of one or more of CCL25, CCL19 and
CCL21. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor inhibits the processing of precursor of
one or more of CCL25, CCL19 and CCL21.
[0086]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR expression. Examples of such inhibitors include an antisense RNA to a

                                           16
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR mRNA or a small interfering RNA to a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR.
[0087]   In certain embodiments, the inhibitor promotes internalisation of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR.
[0088]   The term "nucleic acid" as used herein refers to an oligonucleotide or a
polynucleotide and includes for example DNA, RNA, DNA/RNA, a variant or DNA
and/or RNA (for example a variant of the sugar-phosphate backbone and/or a variant of
one or more bases, such as methylation), and may be single stranded, double stranded,
non-methylated, methylated or other forms thereof. In certain embodiments, the nucleic
acid is a non-naturally occurring nucleic acid, a naturally occurring nucleic acid, a
nucleic acid of genomic origin, a mitochondrial nucleic acid, a nucleic acid of cDNA
origin (derived from a mRNA), a nucleic acid derived from a virus, a nucleic acid of
synthetic origin, a single stranded DNA, a double stranded DNA, an analogue of DNA
and/or RNA, and/or a derivative, fragment and/or combination of any of the
aforementioned. Examples of derivatives also include nucleic acids that have a blocking
group at the 5' and/or 3' ends for example to improve stability, and/or nucleic acids
fused to other molecules. Other types of nucleic acids are contemplated. Methods for
producing nucleic acids are known and include for example nucleic acids produced by
recombinant DNA technology or nucleic acids produced by chemical synthesis.
[0089]   The term "nucleic acid" as used herein also refers to a specified nucleic acid, or
a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence which is the complement of the nucleic
acid, a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence with greater than 70%, 75%,
80%, 85%, 90% or 95% sequence identity to the specified nucleic acid, or a nucleic acid
comprising a nucleotide sequence with greater than 7 0%,   7 5 %, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95%
sequence identity to the complement of the specified nucleic acid. Other levels of
sequence identity are contemplated.
[0090]   In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is an antisense nucleic acid, such as an
antisense RNA. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a small interfering RNA. In
certain embodiments, the inhibitor is a microRNA. Methods for producing and
delivering antisense nucleic acids, microRNAs and siRNAs are known. For example,

                                             17
therapeutic nucleic acids for treating cancer are described in 'Nucleic Acid Therapeutics
in Cancer" 2004 ed. Alan M. Gewirtz, Humana Press Inc.
[0091]   Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a small interfering RNA
to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[0092]   In certain embodiments, the small interfering RNA comprises a nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1, the complement of SEQ ID NO. 1, an RNA equivalent of
SEQ ID NO. 1, a modified form of SEQ ID NO.1 , and/or a functional variant or
functional fragment thereof. The nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 is as follows:
5'-TATGCAGATCACTTCGTACTG-3' (SEQ ID NO. 1).
[0093]   In certain embodiments, the small interfering RNA comprises a nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO. 2, the complement of SEQ ID NO. 2, an RNA equivalent of
SEQ ID NO. 2, a modified form of SEQ ID NO. 2, and/or a functional variant or
functional fragment thereof. The nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 2 is as follows:
5'
CCGGCAGTACGAAGTGATCTGCATACTCGAGTATGCAGATCACTTCGTACTG
TTTTT-3' (SEQ ID NO. 2).
[0094]   In certain embodiments, the small interfering RNA consists of a nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO. 1 or SEQ ID NO. 2, the complement of SEQ ID NO. 1 or 2,
an RNA equivalent of SEQ ID NO. 1 or 2, a modified form of SEQ ID NO. 1 or 2,
and/or a functional variant or functional fragment of the aforementioned nucleotide
sequences.
[0095]   The term "variant" as used herein in reference to a nucleic acid refers to a
nucleic acid with 70% or greater, 75% or greater, 80% or greater, 85% or greater, 90%
or greater, 95% or greater, 96% or greater, 97% or greater, 98% or greater, or 99% or
greater sequence identity with the reference nucleic acid.
[0096]   In certain embodiments, the small interfering RNA comprises a nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO. 3, the complement of SEQ ID NO. 3, an RNA equivalent of
SEQ ID NO. 3, a modified form of SEQ ID NO. 3, and/or a functional variant or

                                            18
functional fragment thereof. The nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 3 is as follows:
5'-ATGCGTTTGCTCATATCGCAG-3' (SEQ ID NO. 3).
[0097]    In certain embodiments, the small interfering RNA comprises a nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO. 4, the complement of SEQ ID NO. 4, an RNA equivalent of
SEQ ID NO. 4, a modified form of SEQ ID NO. 4, and/or a functional variant or
functional fragment thereof. The nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO. 4 is as follows:
5'
CCGGCTGCGATATGAGCAAACGCATCTCGAGATGCGTTTGCTCATATCGCA
GTTTTT-3' (SEQ ID NO. 4).
[0098]    In certain embodiments, the small interfering RNA consists of a nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO. 3 or SEQ ID NO. 4, the complement of SEQ ID NO. 3 or 4,
an RNA equivalent of SEQ ID NO. 3 or 4, a modified form of SEQ ID NO. 3 or 4,
and/or a functional variant or functional fragment of the aforementioned nucleotide
sequences.
[0099]    In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises an antibody and/or an antigen
binding fragment thereof. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises a neutralising
antibody. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises an antagonist antibody.
[00100] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises an antibody and/or an antigen
binding fragment thereof to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments,
the inhibitor comprises a neutralising antibody to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In
certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises an antagonist antibody to a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor comprises an antibody that
promotes internalisation of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00101] The term "antibody" as used herein refers to an immunoglobulin molecule with
the ability to bind an antigenic region of another molecule, and includes monoclonal
antibodies,   polyclonal   antibodies,  multivalent  antibodies,  chimeric   antibodies,
multispecific antibodies, diabodies and fragments of an immunoglobulin molecule or
combinations thereof that have the ability to bind to the antigenic region of another
molecule with the desired affinity including a Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2 , Fv, a single-chain

                                            19
antibody (scFv) or a polypeptide that contains at least a portion of an immunoglobulin
(or a variant of an immunoglobulin) that is sufficient to confer specific antigen binding,
such as a molecule including one or more CDRs.
[00102] In this regard, an immunoglobulin is a tetrameric molecule, each tetramer
being composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains, each pair having one light
chain and one heavy chain. The amino-terminal portion of each chain includes a
variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids that is primarily responsible for
antigen recognition. The carboxy-terminal portion of each chain defines a constant
region primarily responsible for effector function. Human light chains are classified as
K and k light chains. Heavy chains are classified as t, A, y, a, or v and define the
antibody's isotype as IgM, IgD, IgG, IgA, and IgE, respectively. Within light and heavy
chains, the variable and constant regions are joined by a "J" region of about 12 or more
amino acids, with the heavy chain also including a "D" region of about 10 more amino
acids. The variable regions of each light/heavy chain pair form the antibody binding
site, with the result that an intact immunoglobulin has two binding sites. The variable
regions further include hypervariable regions that are directly involved in formation of
the antigen binding site. These hypervariable regions are usually referred to as
Complementarity Determining Regions (CDR). The intervening segments are referred
to as Framework Regions (FR). In both light and heavy chains there are three CDRs
(CDR-I to CDR-3) and four FRs (FR-I to FR-4).
[00103] In certain embodiments, the antigen-binding fragment comprises a Fab, Fab',
F(ab')2, Fd, Fv, a single-chain antibody (scFv), a chimeric antibody, a diabody or a
polypeptide that contains at least a portion of an immunoglobulin that is sufficient to
confer specific antigen binding.
[00104] A Fab fragment is a monovalent fragment consisting of the VL, VH, CL and
CH I domains. A F(ab') 2 fragment is a bivalent fragment including two Fab fragments
linked by a disulphide bridge at the hinge region. A Fd fragment consists of the VH and
CH I domains. A Fv fragment consists of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an
antibody. A dAb consists of a VH domain. A single chain antibody (scFv) is an
antibody in which VL and VH regions are paired to form a monovalent molecule via a
synthetic linker that enable them to be made as a single protein chain. Diabodies are

                                             20
bivalent, bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL domains are expressed on a single
polypeptide chain, but using a linker that is too short to allow for pairing between the
two   domains    on the same chain, thereby forcing the domains to pair with
complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen binding sites.
[00105] Antibody fragments that contain specific binding sites may be generated by a
known method. Methods for producing antigen-binding fragments or portions of
antibodies are known in the art, for example as described in "Antibody Engineering:
Methods and Protocols" (2004) ed. by B.K.C. Lo Humana Press, herein incorporated by
reference;   and "Antibody Engineering: A Practical Approach" (1996)              ed. by J.
McCafferty, H.R. Hoogenboom and DJ. Chriswell Oxford University Press, herein
incorporated by reference. For example, F(ab') 2 fragments can be produced by pepsin
digestion of the antibody molecule, and Fab fragments can be generated by reducing the
disulfide bridges of the F(ab') 2 fragments. Alternatively, Fab expression libraries may be
constructed to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with the
desired specificity, as described for example in Huse, W. D. et al. (1989) Science 254:
 1275-128 1, herein incorporated by reference.
[00106] Antibodies may be generated using known methods. For the production of
antibodies, various hosts including goats, rabbits, rats, mice, humans, and others, may
be immunized by injection with an appropriate antigen. Depending on the host species,
various adjuvants may be used to increase an immunological response. Such adjuvants
include Freund's adjuvant, mineral gels such as aluminium hydroxide, and surface
active substances such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, peptides, oil
emulsions, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, and dinitrophenol. Adjuvants are commercially
available.
[00107] In certain embodiments, the antibody is a polyclonal antibody. A polyclonal
antibody is a mixture of antibodies having different antigen specificities. Methods for
producing and isolating polyclonal antibodies are known. In general, polyclonal
antibodies are produced from B- lymphocytes. Typically polyclonal antibodies are
obtained directly from an immunized subject, such as an immunized animal.

                                           21
[00108] In certain embodiments, the antibody is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal
antibodies may be prepared using a technique that provides for the production of
antibody molecules by continuous isolated cells in culture. These include, but are not
limited to, the hybridoma technique, the human B-cell hybridoma technique, and the
EBV-hybridoma technique. Methods for the preparation of monoclonal antibodies
include for example Kohler et al. (1975) Nature 256:495-497, herein incorporated by
reference; Kozbor et al. (1985) J. Immunol. Methods 81:31-42, herein incorporated by
reference; Cote et al. (1983) Proc. Natl. Acad. ScL 80:2026-2030, herein incorporated
by reference; and Cole et al. (1984) Mol. Cell Biol. 62: 109-120, herein incorporated by
reference.
[00109] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof comprises an isolated antibody. Methods for producing and isolating polyclonal
and monoclonal antibodies are known.
[00110] In certain embodiments, the antibody as described herein has an isotype
selected from the group consisting of IgGI, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3, IgM and IgA.
Determination of the isotype of an antibody may be by a known method.
[00111] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof is a mouse antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, a human
antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, or a humanized antibody and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof.
[00112] Humanized antibodies, or antibodies adapted for non-rejection by other
mammals, may be produced by a suitable method known in the art, including for
example resurfacing or CDR grafting. In resurfacing technology, molecular modeling,
statistical analysis and mutagenesis are combined to adjust the non-CDR surfaces of
variable regions to resemble the surfaces of known antibodies of the target host.
Strategies and methods for the resurfacing of antibodies, and other methods for reducing
immunogenicity of antibodies within a different host are known, for example as
described in US patent 5,639,641. Humanized forms of the antibodies may also be made
by CDR grafting, by substituting the complementarity determining regions of, for
example, a mouse antibody, into a human framework domain.

                                            22
[00113] Methods for humanizing antibodies are known. For example, the antibody may
be generated as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,180,370, herein incorporated by reference;
WO 92/22653, herein incorporated by reference; Wright et al. (1992) Critical Rev. in
Immunol. 12(3,4): 125-168, herein incorporated by reference; and Gu et al. (1997)
Thrombosis and Hematocyst 77(4):755-759), herein incorporated by reference.
[00114] Humanized antibodies typically have constant regions and variable regions
other than the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) derived substantially or
exclusively from a human antibody and CDRs derived substantially or exclusively from
the non- human antibody of interest.
[00115] Techniques developed for the production of "chimeric antibodies", for example
the splicing of mouse antibody genes to human antibody genes to obtain a molecule
with appropriate antigen specificity and biological activity, may be performed by a
suitable method. For example, chimeric antibodies may be produced as described in
Morrison, S. L. et al. (1984) Proc. Natl. Acad. ScL 81:6851-6855, herein incorporated
by reference; Neuberger, M. S. et al. (1984) Nature 312:604-608, herein incorporated by
reference; and Takeda, S. et al. (1985) Nature 314:452-454, herein incorporated by
reference.
[00116] Immunoassays may be used for screening to identify antibodies and/or antigen
binding fragments thereof having the desired specificity. Protocols for competitive
binding or immunoradiometric assays using either polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies
are known.
[00117] Antibody molecules and antigen binding fragments thereof may also be
produced recombinantly by methods known in the art, for example by expression in
E.coli expression systems. For example, a method for the production of recombinant
antibodies is as described in US patent 4,816,567, herein incorporated by reference.
Antigen binding fragments may also be produced by phage display technologies, which
are known.
[00118] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to a human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the

                                              23
antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof binds to a mammalian chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR. Methods for assessing the binding of antibodies and/or antigen
binding fragments are known
[00119] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
modulates binding of a ligand to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. Determination of the
ability of an antibody to modulate ligand binding may be performed by a known
method.
[00120] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. The amino acid sequence of human
CCX-CKR is provided by Genbank Accession No. NP_057641.1. The amino acid
sequence of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR from other species are available or may
be identified by a person skilled in the art.
[00121] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain
embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof binds to an
epitope in an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00122] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope located in one or more of the
following regions of the human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42,
amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, and amino acids 262 to 289; or an
equivalent region of the receptor in another species.
[00123] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antibody binding fragment
thereof binds to an amino terminal region of the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In
certain embodiments, the antibody binds to the amino-terminal extracellular region of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00124] In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to a region comprising one or more
amino acids or an epitope located in a region from amino acids 1 to 42 of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to one or more amino

                                            24
acids or an epitope located in a region from amino acids 1 to 42 of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR.
[00125] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide sequence:
CCX-CKR:           MALEQNQSTDYYYEENEMNGTYDYSQYELICIKEDVREFAKV
(SEQ ID NO. 5) or a variant thereof.
[00126] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide sequences:
MALEQNQSTDYYYEENEMNG                 (SEQ ID NO. 6); TYDYSQYELICIKEDVREFAK
(SEQ ID NO. 7); MALELNQSAEYY (SEQ ID NO. 13); NYTHDYSQYEVI (SEQ ID
NO. 14), MALEQNQSTDYY (SEQ ID NO.19), NGTYDYSQYELI (SEQ ID NO.20)
or a variant of one of the aforementioned sequences.
[00127] In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to a region comprising one or more
amino acids or an epitope located in a region from amino acids 100 to 111 of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen
binding fragment thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the
following    polypeptide    sequences:    NAVHGWILGKMM           (SEQ    ID  NO.     15),
NAVHGWVLGKIM (SEQ ID NO. 21) or a variant thereof.
[00128] In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to a region comprising one or more
amino acids or an epitope located in a region from amino acids 109 to 113 of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen
binding fragment thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the
following polypeptide sequence: KIMCK (SEQ ID NO. 8) or a variant thereof.
[00129] In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to a region comprising one or more
amino acids or an epitope located in a region from amino acids 176 to 201 of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to a region
comprising one or more amino acids or an epitope located in a region from amino acids
180 to 191 of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody
binds to a region comprising one or more amino acids or an epitope located in a region

                                             25
from amino acids 186 to 197 of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00130] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide sequence:
YTVNDNARCIPIFPRYLGTSMKALIQ                  (SEQ ID NO. 9) or a variant thereof. In
certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof binds to one
or more amino       acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide        sequences:
QNARCTPIFPHH (SEQ ID NO. 16), DNARCIPIFPRY (SEQ ID NO.22) or a variant
thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide sequences:
PIFPHHLGTSLK (SEQ ID NO. 17), PIFPRYLGTSMK (SEQ ID NO. 23) or a variant
thereof.
[00131] In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to one or more amino acids or an
epitope located in a region from amino acids 262 to 289 of a chemokine receptor CCX
CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody binds to one or more amino acids or an
epitope located in a region from amino acids 276 to 287 of a chemokine receptor CCX
CKR.
[00132] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide sequence:
CRAIDIIYSLITSCNMSKRMDIAIQVTE (SEQ ID NO. 10) or a variant thereof. In
certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof binds to one
or more amino       acids or an epitope in the following polypeptide        sequences:
DMSKRMDVAIQV (SEQ ID NO. 18), NMSKRMDIAIQV (SEQ ID NO.24) or a
variant thereof.
[00133] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope located in one or more of the
following regions of the human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42,
amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, and amino acids 262 to 289, or an
equivalent region of the receptor in another species.
[00134] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment

                                            26
thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in one or more of polypeptide
sequences SEQ ID NOs 5 to 24.
[00135] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a non-naturally
occurring polypeptide, an isolated polypeptide or a synthetic polypeptide of a
polypeptide as described herein.
[00136] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody raised
against polypeptides as described herein. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure
provide a method of producing an antibody by raising the antibody to a polypeptide as
described herein.
[00137] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a non-naturally
occurring polypeptide, an isolated polypeptide         or a synthetic polypeptide, the
polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from one or more of SEQ ID
NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant or fragment thereof.
[00138] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a non-naturally
occurring, an isolated or a synthetic polypeptide consisting of an amino acid sequence
selected from one or more of SEQ ID NOs.5 to 24, or a variant or fragment thereof.
[00139] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody raised
against a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from one or more of
SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, or a variant or fragment thereof. Certain embodiments of the
present disclosure provide an antibody raised against an epitope present in one or more
of SEQ ID NOs.5 to 24, or a variant or fragment thereof. Certain embodiments provide
an antibody raised against an epitope present in a polypeptide sequence as described
herein.
[00140] The term "polypeptide" as used herein refers to oligo- and poly-peptides and
refers to substances comprising for example two or more, 3 or more, 4 or more, 5 or
more, 6 or more, 7 or more, 8 or more, 9 or more, 10 or more, 20 or more, 30 or more,
40 or more or 50 or more amino acids joined covalently by peptide bonds. The term
"protein" typically refers to large polypeptide, but in general the terms "polypeptides"

                                             27
and "proteins" are synonyms and are used interchangeably herein.
[00141] In certain embodiments, the nucleic acids and polypeptides described herein
are isolated. The term "isolated" refers to a nucleic acid or a polypeptide that has been
separated from its natural environment. For example, an isolated nucleic acid or
polypeptide may be in a substantially purified state, being substantially free of other
substances with which it is associated in nature or in vivo.
[00142] Polypeptides described herein may be isolated from biological samples (such
as tissue or cell homogenates), may be expressed recombinantly in a multiplicity of pro
or eukaryotic expression systems, or synthesized by known chemical means.
[00143] The term "variant" of a polypeptide or of an amino acid sequence refers to one
or more of amino acid insertion variants, amino acid deletion variants, amino acid
substitution variants, and amino acid modification variants (natural and/or synthetic).
[00144] For example, amino acid insertion variants may comprise amino- and/or
carboxy-terminal fusions and also insertions of single or two or more amino acids in a
particular amino acid sequence. In the case of amino acid sequence variants having an
insertion, one or more amino acid residues may be inserted into a particular site in an
amino acid sequence, although random insertion with appropriate screening of the
resulting product is also possible.
[00145] Amino acid deletion variants are characterized by the removal of one or more
amino acids from the sequence. Amino acid substitution variants are characterized by at
least one residue in the sequence being removed and another residue being inserted in
its place. Amino acid changes in variants may be non-conservative and/or conservative
amino acid changes, i.e., substitutions of similarly charged or uncharged amino acids. A
conservative amino acid change involves substitution of one of a family of amino acids
which are related in their side chains. Naturally occurring amino acids are generally
divided into four families: acidic (aspartate, glutamate), basic (lysine, arginine,
histidine), non-polar (alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine,
methionine, tryptophan), and uncharged polar (glycine, asparagine, glutamine, cystine,
serine, threonine, tyrosine) amino acids. Phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine are

                                                28
sometimes classified jointly as aromatic amino acids.
[00146] In certain embodiments, the degree of similarity, for example identity, between
a given amino acid sequence and an amino acid sequence which is a variant of said
given amino acid sequence will be at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, even more
least 90% or at least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99%. The degree of similarity or identity
may be for a region of at least about 10, at least 20, at least a 40, at least 60, at least 80,
at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, or at least 200 amino acids.
[00147] The polypeptides and amino acid variants described herein may be readily
prepared with the aid of known peptide synthesis techniques such as, for example, by
solid phase synthesis and similar methods or by recombinant DNA manipulation. The
manipulation      of DNA      sequences    for preparing      proteins   and peptides   having
substitutions, insertions or deletions, is described in detail in Sambrook, J, Fritsch, E.F.
and Maniatis, T. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual 2nd. ed. Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press, New York. (1989), herein incorporated by reference, and Ausubel et
al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (2011), John Wiley & Sons, Inc., herein
incorporated by reference.
[00148] The      term   "derivatives"    of polypeptides       refer  to  modified   forms   of
polypeptides. Such modifications include any chemical modification and comprise
single or multiple substitutions, deletions and/or additions of any molecules associated
with the protein or peptide, such as carbohydrates, lipids and/or proteins or peptides.
The term "derivative" also extends to all functional chemical equivalents of said
proteins and peptides.
[00149] A variant of a nucleic acid or an amino acid sequence may have a functional
property of the nucleic acid or amino acid sequence from which it has been derived.
Such functional properties may comprise for example the interaction with receptors or
ligands, interaction with antibodies, the interaction with other peptides or proteins, the
selective binding of nucleic acids and an enzymatic activity.
[00150] In certain embodiments, a non-naturally occurring peptide is a synthetic
peptide or an isolated peptide. In certain embodiments, the non-naturally occurring

                                           29
peptide is produced by recombinant DNA technology.
[00151] Methods for isolating and/or producing polypeptides and protein are known,
and are as described generally in Sambrook, J, Fritsch, E.F. and Maniatis, T. Molecular
Cloning: A Laboratory Manual 2nd. ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, New
York. (1989), herein incorporated by reference, and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in
Molecular Biology (2011), John Wiley & Sons, Inc., herein incorporated by reference.
[00152] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an isolated nucleic acid
comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide as described herein. Certain
embodiments of the present disclosure provide an isolated nucleic acid comprising a
nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide comprising one or more or amino acid
sequences SEQ ID NOs.5 to 24, or a variant or a fragment thereof.
[00153] Confirmation that an antibody binds to a desired epitope may be determined by
a known method.
[00154] In certain embodiments, the antibody (and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof) is produced by raising the antibody against a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR
antigen. In certain embodiments, the antibody (and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof) is produced by raising the antibody against a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR
and/or an antigenic fragment thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody (and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof) is an antibody raised against an animal or human
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody (and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof) is raised against a full length receptor, a variant of a
receptor, a fragment of a receptor, a soluble form of the receptor or the receptor
expressed on the surface of a cell.
[00155] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR and/or an antigenic fragment thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody
is raised against an amino terminal region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In
certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against all or part of an extracellular region
of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised
against an amino terminal extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In

                                           30
certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a polypeptide comprising all or part
of an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or a variant thereof.
In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a polypeptide comprising all or
part of an amino terminal region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or a variant
thereof.
[00156] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against one or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in one or more of the following regions of the human chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to
201, and amino acids 262 to 289; or an equivalent region of the receptor in another
species. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a polypeptide comprising
one or more amino acids (epitopes) located in one or more of the following regions of
the human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids 109 to
 113, amino acids 176 to 201, and amino acids 262 to 289; or an equivalent region of the
receptor in another species.
[00157] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against one or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 1 to 42 of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR or a variant thereof.
[00158] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against one or more amino acids
(epitopes)    located    in    the  following    polypeptide    sequence:    CCX-CKR:
MALEQNQSTDYYYEENEMNGTYDYSQYELICIKEDVREFAKV                              (SEQ ID NO. 5)
or a variant thereof.
[00159] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes)       located      in     the     following       polypeptide      sequences:
MALEQNQSTDYYYEENEMNG (SEQ ID NO. 6); TYDYSQYELICIKEDVREFAK
(SEQ ID NO. 7); MALELNQSAEYY (SEQ ID NO. 13); NYTHDYSQYEVI (SEQ ID
NO. 14). MALEQNQSTDYY (SEQ ID NO.19), NGTYDYSQYE LI (SEQ ID NO.20)
or a variant of one of the aforementioned sequences.
[00160] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 100 to 111 of a chemokine

                                           31
receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised
against or more amino acids (epitopes) located in the following polypeptide sequences:
NAVHGWILGKMM (SEQ ID NO. 15), NAVHGWVLGKIM (SEQ ID NO. 21) or a
variant thereof.
[00161] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 109 to 113 of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised
against or more amino acids (epitopes) located in following polypeptide sequence:
KIMCK (SEQ ID NO. 8) or a variant thereof.
[00162] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 176 to 201 of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised
against or more amino acids (epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 180
to 191 of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR or variant thereof. In certain embodiments,
the antibody is raised against or more amino acids (epitopes) located in a region
comprising amino acids 186 to 197 of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR or a variant
thereof.
[00163] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes)        located       in        following        polypeptide       sequence:
YTVNDNARCIPIFPRYLGTSMKALIQ (SEQ ID NO. 9) or a variant thereof. In
certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids (epitopes) in
the   following polypeptide    sequences:   QNARCTPIFPHH         (SEQ   ID NO.     16),
DNARCIPIFPRY (SEQ ID NO.22) or a variant thereof. In certain embodiments, the
antibody is raised against or more amino acids (epitopes) in the following polypeptide
sequences: PIFPHHLGTSLK (SEQ ID NO. 17), PIFPRYLGTSMK (SEQ ID NO. 23)
or a variant thereof.
[00164] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 262 to 289 of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised
against or more amino acids (epitopes) located in a region comprising amino acids 276

                                              32
to 287 of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof.
[00165] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes)          in         the         following        polypeptide        sequence:
CRAIDIIYSLITSCNMSKRMDIAIQVTE (SEQ ID NO. 10) or a variant thereof. In
certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids (epitopes) in
the   following polypeptide      sequences:   DMSKRMDVAIQV          (SEQ   ID NO.     18),
NMSKRMDIAIQV (SEQ ID NO.24) or a variant thereof.
[00166] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against or more amino acids
(epitopes) located in one or more of SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant or fragment
thereof. In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a polypeptide comprising
an amino acid sequences selected from one or more of SEQ ID NOs.5 to 24, or a variant
or fragment of any one or more of these sequences. In certain embodiments, the
antibody is raised an isolated or synthetic polypeptide consisting of an amino acid
sequence selected from one or more of SEQ ID NOs.5 to 24, or a variant or fragment
thereof.
[00167] In certain embodiments, an antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof
has a Kd for binding of greater than 10-6M. In further embodiments, a Kd for binding is
equal to or greater than 10-7 M, 10-'M, 10-9 M or 10 -M. In further embodiments, a Kd
for binding is at least 10- 7M, 10-'M, 10-9 M or 10 -M. In certain embodiments, the Kd is
in the range from 10-'M to 10- 1M.
[00168] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody to a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof as described
herein. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide use of an antibody and/or
an antigen binding fragment thereof in the preparation of a medicament.
[00169] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody to
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, wherein the
antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof inhibits metastasis of a cancer.

                                             33
[00170] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody to
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, wherein the
antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof inhibits a metastatic cancer.
Cancers are as described herein.
[00171] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody that binds
to an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding
fragment of the antibody.
[00172] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody raised to an
epitope on an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen
binding fragment of the antibody.
[00173] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody that binds
to an epitope located in one or more of the following regions of a human chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to
201, and amino acids 262 to 289; or an equivalent region of the receptor in another
species.
[00174] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody raised
against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more of the following polypeptide
sequences: SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant thereof.
[00175] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody to a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, wherein the
antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof inhibits metastasis of a cancerous
cell.
[00176] Examples of metastatic cancers are as described herein. Examples of metastasis
of cancers are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the metastatic cancer is a
metastatic melanoma, a breast cancer, a prostate cancer, an ovarian cancer, or a
colorectal cancer.
[00177] In certain embodiments, the metastasis of a cancer is metastasis of a melanoma,
a breast cancer, a prostate cancer, an ovarian cancer, or a colorectal cancer

                                            34
[00178] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof as described herein binds to region of a CCX-CKR, as described herein.
[00179] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to an extracellular region of a CCX-CKR, as described herein. In certain
embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof binds to an
amino terminal region of a CCX-CKR, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof binds to an amino terminal
extracellular region of a CCX-CKR, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
antibody binds to a region comprising one or more amino acids located in a region from
amino acids I to 12, 1 to 41 or 42, 1 to 20, 19 to 30, 21 to 41, 100 to 111, 109 to 113,
 176 to 201, 180 to 191, 186 to 197, 262 to 289, or 276 to 287 of a CCX-CKR receptor,
as described herein.
[00180] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in one or more of polypeptide
sequences SEQ ID NOs 5 to 24.
[00181] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR and/or an antigenic fragment thereof, as described herein.
[00182] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against all or part of an
extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof, as
described herein. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding
fragment thereof is raised against an amino terminal region of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR or a variant thereof, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
antibody is raised against an amino terminal extracellular region of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR or a variant thereof, as described herein.
[00183] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a region comprising one
or more amino acids located in a region from amino acids 1 to 12, 1 to 41 or 42, 1 to 20,
 19 to 30,21 to 41, 100 to 111, 109 to 113, 176 to 201, 180 to 191, 186 to 197, 262 to
289, or 276 to 287 of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR or variant thereof, as described
herein.

                                             35
[00184] In certain embodiments, the antibody is raised against a region comprising one
or more amino acids located in a region from amino acids 1 to 12, 1 to 41 or 42, 1 to 20,
 19 to 30,21 to 41, 100 to 111, 109 to 113, 176 to 201, 180 to 191, 186 to 197, 262 to
289, or 276 to 287 of a human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, or an equivalent region
of the receptor in another species, or a variant of any of the aforementioned .
[00185] In certain embodiments,         the antibody is raised against      a polypeptide
comprising all or part of one or more of polypeptide sequences SEQ ID NOs 5 to 24,
and/or a variant of any of the aforementioned sequences.
[00186] In certain embodiments, the antibody is a polyclonal antibody and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
antibody is a monoclonal antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, as
described herein. In certain embodiments, the antibody is a human antibody or a
humanized antibody.
[00187] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment
thereof is neutralising for a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the
antibody and/or antigen binding fragment thereof is an antagonist of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding
fragment thereof reduces binding of a ligand to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, as
described herein. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or the antigen binding
fragment thereof promotes internalisation of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00188] In certain embodiments, the antibody has an isotype as described herein. In
certain embodiments, the antibody has an isotype selected from the group consisting of
IgGI, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3, IgM and IgA, as described herein.
[00189] In certain embodiments, the antibody is a polyclonal antibody and/or antigen
binding fragment thereof, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the antibody is a
monoclonal antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, as described herein. In
certain embodiments, the antibody is a human antibody or a humanized antibody, as
described herein.

                                           36
[00190] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of producing
an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof as described herein. Methods
for producing antibodies and antigen binding fragments are known.
[00191] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of producing
an antibody, the method comprising raising the antibody to a region of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR and/or a polypeptide as described herein.
[00192] Certain embodiments provide one or more cells expressing an antibody (or an
antigen-binding fragment thereof) as described herein. In certain embodiments, the one
or more cells comprise one or more isolated cells. Examples of cell include prokaryotic
cells, and eukaryotic cells such as insect cells and mammalian cells. The antibody or
antigen binding fragment may be expressed recombinantly.
[00193] In certain embodiments, the isolated cell is a hybridoma cell. Certain
embodiments provide a hybridoma cell expressing an antibody as described herein.
Methods for producing hybridoma cells are known.
[00194] For example, a typical protocol is as follows: Animals (e.g. mice) are first
exposed to the selected antigen. Usually this is done by a series of injections of the
antigen, over the course of several weeks. Once splenocytes are isolated from the
mammal's spleen, the B cells may be fused with immortalised myeloma cells. The
myeloma cells are generally selected to ensure they are not secreting antibody
themselves and that they lack the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase
(HGPRT) gene, making them sensitive to HAT medium. The fusion may be
accomplished, for example, using polyethylene glycol or Sendai virus.
[00195] Fused cells are incubated in HAT medium for roughly 10 to 14 days.
Aminopterin blocks the pathway that allows for nucleotide synthesis and unfused
myeloma cells die, as they cannot produce nucleotides by the de novo or salvage
pathways because they lack HGPRT. Removal of the unfused myeloma cells is
necessary because they have the potential to outgrow other cells, especially weakly
established hybridomas. Unfused B cells die as they have a short life span. In this way,
only the B cell-myeloma hybrids survive, since the HGPRT gene coming from the B

                                               37
cells is functional. These cells produce antibodies and are immortal. The incubated
medium is then diluted into multi-well plates to such an extent that each well contains
only one cell. Since the antibodies in a well are produced by the same B cell, they will
be directed towards the same epitope, and are thus monoclonal antibodies.
[00196] The next stage is a rapid primary screening process, which identifies and
selects only those hybridomas that produce antibodies of appropriate specificity. The
hybridoma culture supernatant, secondary enzyme labeled conjugate, and chromogenic
or fluorescent substrate, are then incubated, and the formation of a colored product
indicates a positive hybridoma. Alternatively, immunocytochemical screening or flow
cytometry can also be used.
[00197] The B cell that produces the desired antibodies can be cloned to produce many
identical daughter clones. Supplemental media containing interleukin-6 are essential for
this step. Once a hybridoma colony is established, it will continually grow in culture
medium like RPMI-1640 (with antibiotics and fetal bovine serum) and produce
antibodies.
[00198] Multiwell plates are used initially to grow the hybridomas, and after selection,
are changed to larger tissue culture flasks. This maintains the well-being of the
hybridomas and provides enough cells for cryopreservation and supernatant for
subsequent investigations. The culture supernatant can yield 1 to 60 pg/ml of
monoclonal antibody, which is maintained at -20 'C or lower until required.
[00199] By using culture supernatant or a purified immunoglobulin preparation, further
analysis of a potential monoclonal antibody producing hybridoma can be made in terms
of reactivity, specificity, and cross-reactivity.
[00200] Certain embodiments provide an isolated nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide
sequence encoding an antibody and/or an antigen binding part thereof, as described
herein. Certain embodiments provide an expression vector comprising the nucleic acid.
Certain embodiments provide a cell including the nucleic acid and/or the expression
vector.

                                             38
[00201] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inhibiting
metastasis of a cancerous cell, the method comprising exposing the cell to an effective
amount of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00202] The term "exposing", and related terms such as "expose" and "exposure",
refers to directly and/or indirectly contacting and/or treating a species (for example a
cancerous cell) with an agent that directly and/or indirectly inhibits a CCX-CKR.
[00203] For cells in vivo, an inhibitor may be administered to a subject to expose cells
to an inhibitor, or an agent may be administered to a subject that results in the
production of an inhibitor in the subject, thereby exposing cells in vivo to an inhibitor.
In another example, one or more cells may be removed from a subject and contacted
directly or indirectly with an inhibitor, and cells then introduced back into the same or
another subject to effect exposure to an inhibitor. Examples of administration routes are
as described herein. In certain embodiments, the cell is present ex vivo. For example, a
cancerous cell may exposed to an inhibitor ex vivo, and subsequently be introduced into
a subject.
[00204] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inhibiting
metastasis of a cancerous cell in vivo or ex vivo, the method comprising exposing the
cell to an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. Inhibitors of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR are described herein. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor
comprises an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof as described herein.
[00205] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inhibiting
metastasis of a cancerous cell in vivo or ex vivo, the method comprising exposing the
cell to an effective amount of an antibody (and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof)
to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. Antibodies, and antigen binding fragments thereof,
are described herein.
[00206] The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to that amount of an agent
that when exposed to a cell or another species is sufficient to illicit the desired response
or outcome. The effective amount will vary depending upon a number of factors,
including for example the specific activity of the agent being used and the cancerous

                                            39
cell type.
[00207]      In certain embodiments, a cancerous cell or a metastatic cancer is exposed
to a concentration of an inhibitor of 0.1 nM or greater, 0.5 nM or greater, 1 nM or
greater, 5 nM or greater, 10 nM or greater, 50 nM or greater, 100 nM or greater, 500 nM
or greater, 1 uM or greater, 5 uM or greater, 10 uM or greater , 100 uM or greater, 500
uM or greater, 1 mM or greater, or 10 mM or greater. Other concentrations are
contemplated.
[00208]      In certain embodiments, a cancerous cell or a metastatic cancer is exposed
to an antibody, and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, at one of the aforementioned
concentrations.
[00209]      In certain embodiments, a cancerous cell or a metastatic cancer is exposed
to an inhibitor in an amount ranging from one of the following selected ranges: 1 pg/kg
to 100 mg/kg; 1 pg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 1 pg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 1 uig/kg to 100 pg/kg; 1 pg/kg
to 10 Lg/kg; 10 pg/kg to 100 mg/kg; 10 pg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 10 pg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 10
gg/kg to 100 pg/kg; 100 pg/kg to 100 mg/kg; 100 ptg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 100 ag/kg to 1
mg/kg; 1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg; and 10 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg body weight. Other amounts
are contemplated. In certain embodiments, a cancerous cell or a metastatic cancer is
exposed to an antibody, and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, at one of the
aforementioned amounts.
[00210] Examples of cancerous cells include cancerous cells from cancers as described
herein. In certain embodiments, the cancerous cell is a solid cancer cell. In certain
embodiments, the cancerous cell is a carcinoma cell. In certain embodiments, the
cancerous cell is a sarcoma cell. In certain embodiments, the cancerous cell is a
lymphoma cell. In certain embodiments, the cancer cell is a germ cell cancerous cell. In
certain embodiments, the cancerous cell is a blastoma cell. In certain embodiments, the
cancerous cell is a haematological cancerous cell.
[00211] In certain embodiments, the cancerous cell is a melanoma cell, a cancerous
breast cell, a cancerous prostate cell, a cancerous ovarian cell, a cancerous lung cell, a
cancerous colorectal cell, a cancerous gastric cell, a cancerous pancreatic cell, a

                                             40
cancerous bladder cell, a cancerous oesophageal cell , a cancerous urothelial cell, a
cancerous non-small cell lung cell, a cancerous head & neck cell, a cancerous testicular
cell, a cancerous uterine cell, a cancerous liver cell, a cancerous renal cell, a cancerous
stomach cell, a cancerous brain cell, a malignant myeloma cell, a cancerous CML cell, a
cancerous AML cell, or a cell from a lymphoproliferative tumour. Other types of
cancers are contemplated.
[00212] In certain embodiments, the cancerous cell is a melanoma cell, a breast cancer
cell, a prostate cancer cell, an ovarian cancer cell, or a colorectal cancer cell.
[00213] Inhibitors of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR are described herein. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor comprises one or more of a small interfering RNA, an
antisense RNA, a ligand for a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, and an antibody and/or
an antigen binding fragment thereof.
[00214] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor reduces binding of a ligand to a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, as described herein. In certain embodiments, the
inhibitor promotes internalisation of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor comprises an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof as described herein.
[00215] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inhibiting
growth of a metastatic cancerous cell, the method comprising exposing the cell to an
effective amount of inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, as described herein.
Metastatic cells are as described herein.
[00216] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of inhibiting
growth of a metastatic cancerous cell, the method comprising exposing the cell to an
effective amount of an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, as
described herein.
[00217] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of inhibitor to a chemokine receptor

                                             41
CCX-CKR, as described herein.
[00218] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody and/or an antigen binding
fragment thereof, as described herein.
[00219] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering
to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor to a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR, as described herein.
[00220] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of preventing
and/or treating metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method comprising administering
to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody and/or an antigen
binding fragment thereof, as described herein.
[00221] The term "therapeutically effective amount" as used herein refers to that
amount of an agent that is sufficient to effect prevention and/or treatment, when
administered to a subject. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending
upon a number of factors, including for example the specific activity of the agent being
used, the severity of the disease, condition or state in the subject, the age, physical
condition, existence of other disease states, and nutritional status of the subject.
[00222]      In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered to the subject to
produce a concentration of an inhibitor of 0.1 nM or greater, 0.5 nM or greater, 1 nM or
greater, 5 nM or greater, 10 nM or greater, 50 nM or greater, 100 nM or greater, 500 nM
or greater, 1 uM or greater, 5 uM or greater, 10 uM or greater, 100 uM or greater, 500
uM or greater, 1 mM or greater, or 10 mM or greater. In certain embodiments, an
antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof is administered to the subject to
produce a concentration in one of the aforementioned ranges.
[00223]      In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered to the subject in an
amount ranging from one of the following selected ranges: 1 pg/kg to 100 mg/kg; 1

                                             42
pg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 1 Rg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 1 tg/kg to 100 pg/kg; 1 Rg/kg to 1Ojg/kg; 10
pg/kg to 100 mg/kg; 10 pg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 10 tg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 10 gg/kg to 100
gg/kg; 100 pg/kg to 100 mg/kg; 100 kg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 100 Lg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 1
mg/kg to 10 mg/kg; and 10 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg body weight. In certain embodiments,
an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof is administered to the subject to
produce in one of the aforementioned ranges. For example, a therapeutic antibody may
be administered at a concentration of 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15 or 20 mg/kg body weight.
Other amounts are contemplated. The dose and frequency of administration may be
determined by one of skill in the art.
[00224]      The inhibitor may be administered to the subject in a suitable form. In this
regard, the terms "administering" or "providing" includes administering the inhibitor, or
administering a prodrug of the inhibitor, or a derivative of the inhibitor that will form a
therapeutically effective amount of the inhibitor within the body of the subject. The
terms include routes of administration that are systemic (e.g., via injection such as
intravenous injection, orally in a tablet, pill, capsule, or other dosage form useful for
systemic administration of pharmaceuticals), and topical (e.g., creams, solutions, and
the like, including solutions such as mouthwashes, for topical oral administration).
[00225]      In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered orally. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor is administered intravenously. In certain embodiments, the
inhibitor is administered via injection such as intravenous injection. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor is administered by nebulized administration, by aerosolized
administration or by being instilled into the lung.
[00226]      The inhibitors may be administered alone or may be delivered in a mixture
with other therapeutic agents and/or agents that enhance, stabilise or maintain the
activity of the inhibitor. In certain embodiments, an administration vehicle (e.g., pill,
tablet, implant, injectable solution, etc.) would contain both the inhibitor(s) and
additional agent(s).
[00227]      The methods may also include combination therapy. In this regard, the
subject is treated or given another drug or treatment modality in conjunction with the
inhibitor as described herein. This combination therapy can be sequential therapy where

                                                43
the subject is treated first with one and then the other, or the two or more treatment
modalities are given simultaneously.
[00228] "Co-administering" or "co-administration" refers to the administration of two
or more therapeutic agents together at one time. The two or more therapeutic agents can
be co-formulated into a single dosage form or "combined dosage unit", or formulated
separately and subsequently combined into a combined dosage unit, typically for
intravenous administration or oral administration.
[00229]      When administered to a subject the therapeutically effective dosage may
vary depending upon the particular inhibitor utilized, the mode of administration, the
condition, and severity thereof, as well as the various physical factors related to the
subject being treated. As discussed herein, suitable daily doses range from 1 pg/kg to
 100 mg/kg. The daily dosages are expected to vary with route of administration, and the
nature of the inhibitor administered. In certain embodiments the methods comprise
administering to the subject escalating doses of inhibitor and/or repeated doses. In
certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered orally. In certain embodiments, the
inhibitor is administered via injection, such as intravenous injection. In certain
embodiments, the inhibitor is administered parenterally. In certain embodiments, the
inhibitor is administered by direct introduction to the lungs, such as by aerosol
administration, by nebulized administration, and by being instilled into the lung. In
certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered by implant. In certain embodiments,
the certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered by subcutaneous injection,
intraarticularly, rectally, intranasally, intraocularly, vaginally, or transdermally.
[00230] "Intravenous administration" is the administration of substances directly into a
vein.
[00231] "Oral administration" is a route of administration where a substance is taken
through the mouth, and includes buccal, sublabial and sublingual administration, as well
as enteral administration and that through the respiratory tract, unless made through e.g.
tubing so the medication is not in direct contact with any of the oral mucosa. Typical
form for the oral administration of therapeutic agents includes the use of tablets or
capsules.

                                            44
[00232] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered as an immediate release
formulation. The term "immediate release formulation" is a formulation which is
designed to quickly release a therapeutic agent in the body over a shortened period of
time.
[00233] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is administered as a sustained release
formulation. The term "sustained release formulation" is a formulation which is
designed to slowly release a therapeutic agent in the body over an extended period of
time.
[00234] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may be used in a pharmaceutical
composition. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may be used in a pharmaceutical
composition for use in the methods of the present disclosure as described herein. In
certain embodiments, the inhibitor may be used in a medicament or in the preparation of
a medicament.
[00235] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a pharmaceutical
composition comprising an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR as described
herein. In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises an antibody
and/or an antigen binding part thereof as described herein.
[00236] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a pharmaceutical
composition when used to prevent and/or treat metastatic cancer, the pharmaceutical
composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00237] In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition further comprises one
or more of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, excipient, vehicle and additive.
[00238] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR for use in preventing and/or treating metastatic cancer.
Inhibitors are as described herein.
[00239] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provides use of an inhibitor of a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR in the preparation of a medicament for preventing

                                                45
and/or treating metastatic cancer. Inhibitors are as described herein.
[00240]      In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is present in a medicament so as to
produce a concentration of an inhibitor in the subject of 0.1 nM or greater, 0.5 nM or
greater, 1 nM or greater, 5 nM or greater, 10 nM or greater, 50 nM or greater, 100 nM
or greater, 500 nM or greater, 1 uM or greater, 5 uM or greater, 10 uM or greater , 100
uM or greater, 500 uM or greater, 1 mM or greater, or 10 mM or greater. Other
concentrations are contemplated. In certain embodiments, a therapeutic antibody and/or
an antigen binding fragment thereof is present in a medicament in one of the
aforementioned amounts.
[00241]      In certain embodiments, the inhibitor in a medicament is present so as to
provide an amount of inhibitor for administration to the subject in an amount ranging
from one of the following selected ranges: 1 pg/kg to 100 mg/kg; 1 pg/kg to 10 mg/kg;
1 pg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 1 pg/kg to 100 pg/kg; 1 pg/kg to 10tg/kg; 10 Ig/kg to 100 mg/kg;
10 pg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 10 gg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 10 tg/kg to 100 jig/kg; 100 gg/kg to 100
mg/kg; 100 pg/kg to 10 mg/kg; 100 pg/kg to 1 mg/kg; 1 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg; and 10
mg/kg to 100 mg/kg body weight. Other amounts are contemplated. In certain
embodiments, a therapeutic antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof is
present in a medicament in one of the aforementioned amounts.
[00242] In certain embodiments, the medicament is suitable for delivery to the subject
by one or more of intravenous administration, intratracheal administration, by nebulized
administration, by aerosolized administration, by instillation into the lung, by oral
administration, by parenteral administration, by implant, by subcutaneous injection,
intraarticularly, rectally, intranasally, intraocularly, vaginally, or transdermally.
[00243] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is provided in a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier suitable for administering the pharmaceutical composition to a
subject. The carriers may be chosen based on the route of administration as described
herein, the location of the target issue, the inhibitor being delivered, the time course of
delivery of the drug, etc. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to a
substantially inert solid, semi-solid or liquid filler, diluent, encapsulating material or
formulation auxiliary of any type. An example of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier

                                             46
is physiological saline. Other physiologically acceptable carriers and their formulations
are known in the art. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers include, sugars such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches such as
corn starch and potato        starch; cellulose    and its derivatives    such as sodium
carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; powdered tragacanth;
malt; gelatin; talc; excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; oils such as
peanut oil, cottonseed oil; safflower oil; sesame oil; olive oil; corn oil and soybean oil;
glycols such as propylene glycol; esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar;
detergents such as TWEEN 80; buffering agents such as magnesium hydroxide and
aluminium hydroxide; alginic acid; pyrogen-free water; isotonic saline; Ringer's
solution; ethyl alcohol; and phosphate buffer solutions, as well as other non-toxic
compatible lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate, as well as
colouring agents, releasing       agents, coating agents,     sweetening, flavouring and
perfuming agents, preservatives and antioxidants can also be present.
[00244] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may be administered or present in a
pharmaceutical     composition    as   a pharmaceutically      acceptable  salt. The term
"pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to acid addition salts or metal complexes
which are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry. Examples of acid addition
salts include organic acids such as acetic, lactic, pamoic, maleic, citric, malic, ascorbic,
succinic, benzoic, palmitic, suberic, salicylic, tartaric, methanesulfonic, toluenesulfonic,
or trifluoroacetic acids or the like; polymeric acids such as tannic acid, carboxymethyl
cellulose, or the like; and inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,
sulfuric acid phosphoric acid, or the like. Metal complexes include zinc, iron, and the
like.
[00245] In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions or medicament
comprises other therapeutic agents and/or agents that enhance, stabilise or maintain the
activity of the active.
[00246] Oral formulations containing the inhibitors as described herein may comprise
any conventionally used oral forms, including tablets, capsules, buccal forms, troches,
lozenges and oral liquids, suspensions or solutions. Capsules may contain mixtures of
the active compound(s) with inert fillers and/or diluents such as the pharmaceutically

                                             47
acceptable starches (e.g. corn, potato or tapioca starch), sugars, artificial sweetening
agents, powdered celluloses, such as crystalline and microcrystalline celluloses, flours,
gelatins, gums, etc. Useful tablet formulations may be made by conventional
compression, wet granulation or dry granulation methods and utilize pharmaceutically
acceptable diluents, binding agents, lubricants, disintegrants, surface modifying agents
(including surfactants), suspending or stabilizing agents, including magnesium stearate,
stearic     acid,    talc,  sodium      lauryl     sulfate,   microcrystalline    cellulose,
carboxymethylcellulose calcium, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gelatin, alginic acid, acacia
gum, xanthan gum, sodium citrate, complex silicates, calcium carbonate, glycine,
dextrin, sucrose, sorbitol, dicalcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, lactose, kaolin,
mannitol, sodium chloride, talc, dry starches and powdered sugar. Surface modifying
agents include nonionic and anionic surface modifying agents. Representative examples
of surface     modifying agents include, but are not limited to, poloxamer              188,
benzalkonium chloride, calcium stearate, cetostearl alcohol, cetomacrogol emulsifying
wax, sorbitan esters, colloidol silicon dioxide, phosphates, sodium dodecylsulfate,
magnesium aluminium silicate, and triethanolamine. Oral formulations may utilize
standard delay or time-release formulations to alter the absorption of the peptides. The
oral formulation may also consist of administering the active ingredient in water or a
fruit juice, containing appropriate solubilizers or emulsifiers as needed.
[00247] In certain embodiments, it may be desirable to administer the inhibitor directly
to the airways in the form of an aerosol. Formulations for the administration of aerosol
forms are known.
[00248] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may also be administered parenterally
(such as directly into the joint space) or intraperitoneally. For example, solutions or
suspensions of these compounds in a non-ionised form or as a pharmacologically
acceptable salt can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as
hydroxy-propylcellulose.     Dispersions   can also     be prepared    in  glycerol,  liquid
polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage
and use, these preparations typically contain a preservative to prevent the growth of
microorganisms.

                                            48
[00249] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may also be administered by injection.
Pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or
dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable
solutions or dispersions. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing,
for example, water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol, propylene glycol and liquid
polyethylene glycol), suitable mixtures thereof, and vegetable oils.
[00250] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may also be administered intravenously.
Compositions containing the inhibitor described herein suitable for intravenous
administration may be formulated by a skilled person.
[00251] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may also be administered transdermally.
Transdermal administrations are understood to include all administrations across the
surface of the body and the inner linings of bodily passages including epithelial and
mucosal tissues. Such administrations may be carried out using the inhibitor as
described herein, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, in lotions, creams, foams,
patches, suspensions, solutions, and suppositories (rectal and vaginal).
[00252] Transdermal administration may also be accomplished through the use of a
transdermal patch containing the active compound and a carrier that is inert to the active
compound, is non toxic to the skin, and allows delivery of the agent for systemic
absorption into the blood stream via the skin. The carrier may take any number of forms
such as creams and ointments, pastes, gels, and occlusive devices. The creams and
ointments may be viscous liquid or semisolid emulsions of either the oil-in-water or
water-in-oil type. Pastes comprised of absorptive powders dispersed in petroleum or
hydrophilic petroleum containing the active ingredient may also be suitable. A variety
of occlusive devices may be used to release the active ingredient into the blood stream
such as a semi-permeable membrane covering a reservoir containing the active
ingredient with or without a carrier, or a matrix containing the active ingredient.
[00253] In certain embodiments, the inhibitor may also be administered by way of a
suppository. Suppository formulations may be made from traditional materials,
including cocoa butter, with or without the addition of waxes to alter the suppository's
melting point, and glycerin. Water soluble suppository bases, such as polyethylene

                                            49
glycols of various molecular weights, may also be used.
[00254] Additional numerous various excipients, dosage forms, dispersing agents and
the like that are suitable for use in connection with the administration of the inhibitor
and/or the formulation into medicaments or pharmaceutical compositions.
[00255] Formulations      are known     and described in,    for example, Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences, 17th ed., Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., 1985,
which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[00256] For the administration of an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof, these may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition, generally along
with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, suitable for administration to a subject in
vivo.
[00257] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a pharmaceutical
composition comprising an antibody and/or antigen binding part thereof, as described
herein.   Methods    for preparing,    formulating   and   administering pharmaceutical
compositions comprising an antibody are known, and include for example "Handbook
of Therapeutic Antibodies" ed. S. Dubel (2007) Wiley-VCH. In certain embodiments,
the pharmaceutical composition comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, as
described herein.
[00258] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody and/or
antigen binding fragment thereof for use in a medicament, as described herein.
[00259] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof for use in preventing and/or treating metastatic cancer,
as described herein.
[00260] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00261] In certain embodiments, an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof as described herein is used to detect a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. Various

                                             50
methods are known for using antibodies to detect receptors, and are as described
generally in Sambrook, J, Fritsch, E.F. and Maniatis, T. Molecular Cloning: A
Laboratory Manual 2nd. ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, New York. (1989),
herein incorporated by reference.
[00262] In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen-binding fragment thereof
as described herein may be used as a diagnostic agent to detect a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR in vitro, ex vivo and/or in vivo. For example, antibodies may be used in a
conventional    immunoassay,      including     an ELISA,  an    RIA,    FACS,    tissue
immunohistochemistry, Western blot or immunoprecipitation.
[00263] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a
cancerous cell expressing or overexpressing a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR. Certain
embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a cancer,
including a metastatic cancer.
[00264] In certain embodiments, an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment
thereof as described herein is used to detect a cancerous cell, a cancer or a metastatic
cancer. In certain embodiments, the cancerous cell is a metastatic cancerous cell. In
certain embodiments, an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof is used to
detect a cancerous cell, a metastatic cancerous cell, a cancer or a metastatic cancer
expressing or over-expressing chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00265] In certain embodiments, for the use of the detection of a chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR, or detection of a cell or cancer expressing or overexpressing CCX-CKR,
the antibody and/or antigen-binding portion may labelled with a detectable moiety and
thereby the receptor or cell detected directly.
[00266] Alternatively, a primary antibody to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR may be
unlabeled and a secondary antibody or other molecule that binds to the chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR antibody can be utilised. For example, the antibody may be used in
immunohistochemical analysis of tissues or cells. The binding of antibody may be
detected with a secondary antibody, for example such as a biotinylated IgG that
recognises the primary antibody, and incubation with Streptavidin CY3/FITC used to

                                             51
detect the binding of the antibody to the receptor.
[00267] Examples of detectable moieties include radioisotopes, such as 3H, 14C, 32P,
35S, or 1311; fluorescent or chemiluminescent compounds, such as fluorescein
isothiocyanate, rhodamine, or luciferin; or an enzyme, such as alkaline phosphatase,
beta-galactosidase or horseradish peroxidase. Methods for conjugating an antibody to a
detectable moiety are known.
[00268] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a
cancerous cell in a subject. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a
method of detecting a metastatic cancerous cell in a subject. Certain embodiments of the
present disclosure provide a method of detecting a cancer in a subject. Certain
embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a metastatic
cancer in a subject.
[00269] In certain embodiments, the method of detecting comprises using an antibody
and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof, as described herein.
[00270] In certain embodiments, a sample comprising one or more cells is obtained
from a subject, and the present of one or more cancerous cells is detected. In certain
embodiments, a sample comprising one or more cells is obtained from a subject, and the
present of one or more cancerous cells is detected. Methods for detecting a CCX-CKR,
or a cell expressing a CCX-CKR, are described herein
[00271] In certain embodiments, a cancerous cell, a cancer or a metastatic cancer is
detected in situ. In certain embodiments, an antibody and/or an antigen binding
fragment thereof as described herein are used for detecting a cancerous cell in vivo, such
as in vivo imaging. In certain embodiments, the antibody and/or antigen-binding
fragment thereof is labelled with a detectable moiety, such as a radio-opaque agent or
radioisotope administered to a subject, and the presence and location of the labelled
antibody etc in the host is assayed. Such imaging techniques are useful in the staging
and treatment of malignancies. The antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof
may be labelled with any moiety that is detectable in a host, whether by nuclear
magnetic resonance, radiology, or other detection means known for in vivo imaging are

                                              52
utilised.
[00272] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a
cancerous cell in a subject, the method comprising:
             administering to the subject an effective amount of an antibody and/or an
             antigen binding fragment thereof, as described herein; and
             detecting the cancerous cell.
[00273] Examples of cancerous cells are as described herein.
[00274] Examples of subjects in which a cancerous cell may be detected are as
described herein. Subjects are as described herein. In certain embodiments, the subject
is human.
[00275] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of detecting a
cancer in a subject, the method comprising:
             administering to the subject an effective amount of an antibody and/or an
             antigen binding fragment thereof, as described herein; and
             detecting the cancerous.
[00276] In certain embodiments, the cancer is a metastatic cancer. Examples of cancers
and metastatic cancers are as described herein.
[00277] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of identifying
an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a cancer.
[00278] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of identifying
an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a cancer, the method comprising:
          identifying a test agent that modulates chemokine receptor CCX-CKR activity;
          determining the ability of the test agent to inhibit metastasis of a cancer; and
          identifying the test agent as an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a
          cancer.
[00279] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an agent identified
using the method.

                                               53
[00280] Examples of cancers are as described herein.
[00281] Examples of test agents include a drug, a small molecule, a protein, a
polypeptide, a lipid, a carbohydrate, a nucleic acid, an oligonucleotide, a ribozyme, a
biologic, an aptamer, , a cofactor, a ligand, a ligand mimetic, a receptor, an enzyme, a
kinase, a phosphatase, a cytokine, a growth factor, a metal ion, a chelate, an antisense
nucleic acid, an antisense RNA, a microRNA, a siRNA, an antibody or antigen binding
part thereof, an antagonist, an inhibitor, or a suppressor.
[00282] In certain embodiments, the test agent comprises an antibody and/or an antigen
binding fragment thereof, a small interfering RNA, an antisense RNA, or a ligand for
chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
[00283] Methods for determining the ability of a test agent to modulate receptor activity
are known. For example, the ability of a test agent to modulate chemokine receptor
CCX-CKR activity may include the ability of the test agent to modulate ligand binding
to the receptor and/or the ability of the test agent to modulate signalling of the receptor.
In this regard, the ability of the test agent to modulate signalling by one or more G
proteins may be determined.
[00284] Methods for determining the ability of the test agent to inhibit metastasis are
known. For example, the ability of the test agent to inhibit metastasis may be
determined in a suitable animal model as described herein. Identification of the test
agent as an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis may then be accomplished.
[00285] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method of identifying
an agent capable of inhibiting cancerous cell metastasis, the method comprising:
          identifying a test agent that inhibits a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR;
          determining the ability of the test agent to inhibit cancerous cell metastasis; and
          identifying the test agent as an agent capable of inhibiting cancerous cell
          metastasis.

                                             54
[00286] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an agent identified
using the method.
[00287] Certain embodiments provide a method of identifying an antibody and/or
antigen binding fragment thereof capable of inhibiting cancerous cell metastasis.
[00288] Certain embodiments provide a method of identifying an antibody and/or
antigen binding fragment thereof capable of inhibiting cancerous cell metastasis, the
method comprising:
         producing an antibody raised against a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR
         polypeptide;
         determining the ability of the antibody to inhibit cancerous cell metastasis; and
         identifying the antibody as an agent capable of inhibiting cancerous metastasis.
[00289] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide an antibody and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof identified using a screening method as described
herein.
[00290] Examples of cancerous cells are as described herein. In certain embodiments,
the cancerous cell is a melanoma cell, a breast cancer cell, a prostate cancer cell, an
ovarian cancer cell, or a colorectal cancer cell.
[00291] In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX-CKR polypeptide is a
polypeptide as described herein. In certain embodiments, the chemokine receptor CCX
CKR polypeptide is an isolated polypeptide consisting of one or more of amino acid
sequences SEQ ID NO.5 to SEQ ID NO.24, or a variant or a fragment thereof.
[00292] Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide a kit for performing a
method as described herein.
[00293] Certain embodiments provide a kit comprising an inhibitor of a chemokine
receptor CCX-CKR. In certain embodiments, the inhibitor is an antibody and/or an
antigen binding fragment thereof as described herein.

                                            55
[00294] Standard techniques       may be used for recombinant DNA               technology,
oligonucleotide synthesis, antibody production, peptide synthesis, tissue culture and
transfection. Enzymatic reactions and purification techniques may be performed
according to manufacturer's specifications or as commonly accomplished in the art or as
described herein. The foregoing techniques and procedures may be generally performed
according to conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various
general and more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present
specification. See e.g., Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2d
ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1989)), herein
incorporated by reference.
[00295] Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a
shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the
range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into
the specification as if it were individually recited herein. Where a specific range of
values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to the tenth of the unit
of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between the upper and
lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range, is
included therein. All smaller sub ranges are also included. The upper and lower limits of
these smaller ranges are also included therein, subject to any specifically excluded limit
in the stated range.
[00296] Certain exemplary embodiments are illustrated by some of the following
examples. It is to be understood that the following description is for the purpose of
describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting with respect
to the above description.
EXAMPLE 1 - RNAi of CCX-CKR in B16 melanoma cells results in complete
rejection of melanoma
[00297] shRNA cassettes targeting CCX-CKR were inserted into lentiviral expression
vector pLKO.1 purchased from Open Biosystems (Thermo Scientific) and siRNA
produced according to the manufacturer's instructions. Lentiviral supernatants were
produced by transfecting HEK293T packaging cells with one of the CCX-CKR shRNA

                                           56
or control shRNA-encoding lentiviral vectors together with psPAX2, pREV and pMD2
G packaging plasmids. The lentivirus-containing medium was harvested 48 hours post
transfection and placed onto B16 cells. After a 6-hour incubation the viral supernatant
was removed and replaced with complete medium. The transductants were selected with
puromycin for at least 2 weeks before being subjected to further analysis.
[00298] Mice were inoculated via the subcutaneous route with either control B16 cells
(B16CTLkd), or B16 cells in which CCX-CKR had been knocked down by RNAi
(designated      B16CCXkd6         or     kd7).      CCX-CKR         kd     #6:      5'
CCGGCAGTACGAAGTGATCTGCATACTCGAGTATGCAGATCACTTCGTACTG
TTTTT-3'          (SEQ        ID        NO.        2);        CCX-CKR          kd#7:5'
CCGGCTGCGATATGAGCAAACGCATCTCGAGATGCGTTTGCTCATATCGCA
GTTTTT-3' (SEQ ID NO. 4).
[00299] Tumour growth was measured on a daily basis for up to 22 days. The tumours
were removed and examined by dissection microscopy. Graphs represent mean  sem (n
=  minimum of 10 mice per group). Dissected tumours are from one experiment.
[00300] The results are shown in Figure 1. The data shows that a reduction in CCX
CKR activity results in a complete rejection of melanoma growth, as compared to mice
inoculated with control B16 cells.
EXAMPLE 2- RNAi knockdown of CCX-CKR inhibits metastasis of B16 melanoma
[00301] Mice were inoculated with 4x10 5 cells via the footpad with either control B16
cells (B16GFPkd) or B16 cells in which CCX-CKR had been knocked down by RNAi
(B16CCXkd6 or kd7). Pelvic lymph nodes (PLN) were collected and homogenate
cultures grown in the presence of puromycin.
[00302] The results are shown in Figure 2. Knockdown of CCX-CKR dramatically
inhibited the number of puromycin cells present in the PLN, demonstrating that RNAi
knockdown inhibits lymphatic metastasis of B16 melanoma cells.

                                           57
EXAMPLE 3 - Loss of CCX-CKR results in the generation of an anti-melanoma
immune response
[00303] Mice were injected with either control B16 cells or cells in which CCX-CKR
had been knocked down by RNAi (B16CCXkd) and tumours were collected on the
indicated days and analysed for the presence of various immune cells and cytokines.
Where appropriate, data are expressed as mean  sem (n    = minimum of 5 mice).
[00304] The results are shown in Figure 3. Figure 3A - Levels of tumour infiltrating
leukocytes in CCX-CKR knockdown B16 tumours. The subcutaneous tumours
harvested on day 10 or 17 post-tumour injection were minced and digested using
collagenase IA. Erythrocytes were removed from the single cell suspension before Fcy
receptors were blocked and the cells were labelled for combinations of CD4 and CD8,
CD49b and NK1.1, IA/IE and CD11c, or IA/IE and F4/80. Each point represents the
data from individual mice and bars represent the mean  SEM of 6 mice per group.
Statistical analysis was performed using unpaired t-test. Figure 3B - Immunofluorescent
staining of CCX-CKR knockdown tumour sections for tumour infiltrating leukocytes.
The subcutaneous tumours harvested on day 17 post-tumour injection were embedded
into OCT and frozen in liquid nitrogen. The tumour sections were fixed and blocked
with 2% normal mouse serum and 2% normal goat serum. The sections were then
stained for CD4, CD8, F4/80, CD1 lb or CD1 Ic. Images were acquired using Leica SP5
spectral scanning confocal microscope and LAS AF software. Shown are representative
images from 2 independent experiments, each performed with 3 mice per group. Figure
3C - Levels of inflammatory cytokines in the CCX-CKR knockdown B16 tumour
microenvironment. The subcutaneous tumours harvested from mice were minced and
digested using collagenase IA. The homogenate supernatant was tested to measure the
levels of IFN-7, IL-12 and IL-17 by sequential ELISA. Concentrations of chemokines
were normalised to each tumour weight. Each point represents the data from individual
mice and bars represent the mean SEM of 6 mice per group. Statistical analysis was
performed using unpaired t-test.

                                           58
EXAMPLE 4 - CCX-CKR knockout mice are resistant to melanoma growth and
metastasis
[00305] CCX-CKR# mice, generated at the Beatson Institute for Cancer Research
(Glasgow, UK), and were backcrossed to the C57B1/6 background for over 10
generations and were confirmed to be syngeneic to the C57B1/6 strain using a genome
wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis eliminating the possibility of
minor antigens differing between wt and knockout mice.
[00306] CCX-CKR KO or WT mice were inoculated subcutaneously with WT B16
melanoma cells. Tumour growth was assessed daily and tumour weight was assessed at
termination of the experiment. The results are shown in Figures 4A and 4B. Data are
plotted as mean  sem (n= minimum 20 mice). Tumour size and tumour weight were
markedly decreased in the CCX-CKR knock-out mice.
[00307] CCX-CKR KO or WT mice were inoculated intravenously with WT B16
melanoma cells. The lungs were collected 14 days later and the number of surface
tumour nodules were quantified. The results are shown in Figure 4C. Data are plotted as
mean  sem (n= minimum 20 mice). The number of surface nodules is markedly
decreased in CCX-CKR knock-out mice.
EXAMPLE 5 - Effect of anti-CCX-CKR (anti-CCR1 1) antibodies on lung colonisation
by B16 melanoma cells
[00308] Rabbits     were   immunized      with   one    of   the  following    peptides;
MALELNQSAEYYYEENEMNY               (SEQ ID NO.11; corresponding to amino acids 1-20
of the    mouse    CCX-CKR     receptor;   Genbank    Accession   No.   AY072796)      or
THDYSQYEVICIKEEVRQFAK (SEQ ID NO.12; corresponding to amino acids 21-41
of the mouse CCX-CKR receptor; Genbank Accession No. AY072796) and the
antibodies were purified from the serum using affinity column. The antibodies against
two peptides were pooled before being injected into mice.
[00309] C57B16 mice were injected with 2x10     5 wild-type B16 melanoma cells by the
intravenous route. Mice were either treated with 375 ug of normal rabbit IgG or affinity-

                                              59
purified anti- CCX-CKR polyclonal antibodies on days 0, 4 & 8. Lungs were excised 13
days later and the number of metastatic nodules was counted, as shown in Figure 5A.
Representative photographs are shown in Figure 5B.
[00310] Treatment with anti-CCX-CKR antibodies reduced the number of metastatic
nodules by approximately 40%. This was statistically significant at -<0.05 (1-tailed
Student's T test, n = 6 mice/group).
EXAMPLE 6 - CCX-CKR knockout mice are resistant to breast cancer growth and
metastasis
[00311] CCX-CKR KO or WT mice were inoculated subcutaneously with WT E0771
breast cancer cells. Tumour growth was assessed daily and tumour weight was assessed
at termination of the experiment. The results are shown in Figure 6A. Data are plotted
as mean  sem (n=minimum 20 mice). As can be seen, tumour volume (Fig. 6A) and
weight (Fig. 6B) were dramatically decreased in the CCX-CKR knock-out mice.
[00312] Figure 6C shows that the number of lung metastases was dramatically
decreased in CCX-CKR knock-out mice.
EXAMPLE 7 - Knockdown of CCX-CKR on B16 melanoma cells inhibits metastasis
and restores survival.
[00313] C57Bl/6 mice were injected with control or CCX-CKR knockdown cells at the
indicated concentration (2x 105 or 5x 105 cells) via the intravenous route and survival
was monitored over a 100 day period. The data is shown in Figure 7. Knockdown of
CCX-CKR on B16 melanoma cells restores survival of mice inoculated as compared to
inoculation of control cells.
[00314] As used herein, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" may refer to plural
articles unless specifically stated otherwise.
[00315] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated element or integer or group of elements or integers but

                                            60
not the exclusion of any other element or integer or group of elements or integers.
[00316] All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless
indicated otherwise herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all
examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely
to better illuminate the example embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the
scope of the claimed invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the
specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element as essential.
[00317] The description provided herein is in relation to several embodiments which
may share common characteristics and features. It is to be understood that one or more
features of one embodiment may be combinable with one or more features of the other
embodiments. In addition, a single feature or combination of features of the
embodiments may constitute additional embodiments.
[00318] The subject headings used herein are included only for the ease of reference of
the reader and should not be used to limit the subject matter found throughout the
disclosure or the claims. The subject headings should not be used in construing the
scope of the claims or the claim limitations.
[00319] Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular
examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the disclosure may be
embodied in many other forms.
[00320] Future patent applications may be filed on the basis of the present application,
for example by claiming priority from the present application, by claiming a divisional
status and/or by claiming a continuation status. It is to be understood that the following
claims are provided by way of example only, and are not intended to limit the scope of
what may be claimed in any such future application. Nor should the claims be
considered to limit the understanding of (or exclude other understandings of) the present
disclosure. Features may be added to or omitted from the example claims at a later date.

              EDITORIAL NOTE
                      <removed-apn>
- The page numbering of the Claims is a continuation from the
Gene Sequence

WO 2014/036608                                                      PCT/AU2013/001014
                                               67
 CLAIMS
  1.       A method of preventing and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject, the
 method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an
 inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 2.        The method according to claim 1, wherein the metastatic cancer is a metastatic
 melanoma, breast cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, or colorectal cancer.
 3.        The method according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the inhibitor comprises one or
 more of a drug, a small molecule, a protein, a polypeptide, a lipid, a carbohydrate, a
 nucleic acid, an oligonucleotide, a ribozyme, a biologic, an aptamer, a cofactor, a
 ligand, a ligand mimetic, a receptor, an enzyme, a kinase, a phosphatase, a cytokine, a
 growth factor, a metal ion, a chelate, an antisense nucleic acid, an inhibitor RNA, a
 microRNA, a siRNA, an antibody or antigen binding part thereof, an antibody mimetic,
 an antagonist, an inhibitor, or a suppressor.
 4.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the inhibitor
 comprises one or more of a small interfering RNA, a microRNA, an antisense RNA, a
 ligand for a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, and an antibody and/or an antigen binding
 part thereof.
 5.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the inhibitor
 comprises an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof.
 6.        The method according to claim 5, wherein the antibody and/or the antigen
 binding fragment thereof binds to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 7.        The method according to claim 6, wherein the antibody and/or the antigen
 binding fragment thereof binds to an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor CCX
 CKR.
 8.        The method according to claims 6 or 7, wherein the antibody and/or the
 antibody binding fragment thereof binds to an amino terminal region of the chemokine

WO 2014/036608                                                        PCT/AU2013/001014
                                            68
 receptor CCX-CKR.
 9.        The method according to any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein the antibody and/or
 the antigen binding fragment thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope
 located in one or more of the following regions of the human chemokine receptor CCX
 CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, and amino
 acids 262 to 289, or an equivalent region of the receptor in another species.
  10.      The method according to any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein the antibody binds
 to an one or more amino acids or an epitope in one or more of polypeptide sequences:
 SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24.
  11.      The method according to any one of claims 5 to 10, wherein the antibody is
 raised against a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigenic fragment thereof.
  12.      The method according to claim 11, wherein the antibody is raised against a
 polypeptide comprising all or part of an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor
 CCX-CKR and/or a variant thereof.
  13.      The method according to claims 11 or 12, wherein the antibody is raised
 against a polypeptide comprising an amino terminal region of a chemokine receptor
 CCX-CKR and/or a variant thereof.
  14.      The method according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the antibody is
 raised against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more of the following
 regions of the human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids
  109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, amino acids 262 to 289, and/or a variant thereof.
  15.      The method according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the antibody is
 raised against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more of polypeptide
 sequences SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant of one or more of the aforementioned
 polypeptide sequences.
  16.      The method according to any one of claims 5 to 15, wherein the antibody is a

WO 2014/036608                                                       PCT/AU2013/001014
                                            69
 monoclonal antibody.
  17.     The method according to any claims 1 to 16, wherein the number of metastases
 in the subject is reduced.
  18.     The method according to any claims 1 to 17, wherein growth of metastases in
 the subject is reduced.
  19.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein administering the
 inhibitor to the subject induces an immune response to the cancer in the subject.
 20.      The method according to claim 19, wherein administering the inhibitor to the
 subject induces anti-tumour CD4+ and/or CD8+ cells.
 21.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the inhibitor
 reduces binding of a ligand to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 22.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the inhibitor
 promotes internalisation of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 23.      Use of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR in the preparation of a
 medicament for preventing and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject.
 24.      A method of preventing and/or treating metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the
 method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an
 inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 25.      A method for reducing metastasis of a cancer in a subject, the method
 comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an
 inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 26.      A method for reducing growth of a metastatic cancer in a subject, the method
 comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an
 inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.

WO 2014/036608                                                         PCT/AU2013/001014
                                              70
 27.      A method of inducing an immune response to a metastatic cancer in a subject,
 the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount
 of an inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 28.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount
 of inhibitor of a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and one or more of a pharmaceutically
 acceptable carrier, excipient, vehicle and/or additive.
 29.      An antibody to chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding
 fragment thereof, wherein the antibody and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof
 inhibits metastasis of a cancer.
 30.      The antibody according to claim 29, wherein the cancer is a melanoma, a
 breast cancer, a prostate cancer, an ovarian cancer, or a colorectal cancer.
 31.      The antibody according to claims 29 or 30, wherein the antibody and/or the
 antigen binding fragment thereof binds to an extracellular region of a chemokine
 receptor CCX-CKR.
 32.      The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 31, wherein the antibody
 and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof binds to an amino terminal region of a
 chemokine receptor CCX-CKR.
 33.      The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 32, wherein the antibody
 and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof binds to one or more amino acids or an
 epitope located in one or more of the following regions of the human chemokine
 receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to
 201, and amino acids 262 to 289; or an equivalent region of the receptor in another
 species.
 34.      The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 33, wherein the antibody
 binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope in one or more of polypeptide sequences
 SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24.

WO 2014/036608                                                        PCT/AU2013/001014
                                              71
 35.      The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 34, wherein the antibody is
 raised against a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigenic fragment thereof.
 36.      The antibody according to claim 35, wherein the antibody is raised against a
 polypeptide comprising all or part of an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor
 CCX-CKR and/or a variant thereof.
 37.      The antibody according to claims 35 or 36, wherein the antibody is raised
 against a polypeptide comprising an amino terminal region of a chemokine receptor
 CCX-CKR and/or a variant thereof.
 38.      The antibody according to any one of claims 35 to 37, wherein the antibody is
 raised against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more of the following
 regions of the human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino acids 1 to 42, amino acids
  109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, amino acids 262 to 289, or an equivalent region of
 the receptor in another species, and/or a variant of any of the aforementioned.
 39.      The antibody according to any one of claims 35 to 38, wherein the antibody is
 raised against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more of polypeptide
 sequences SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant of any of the aforementioned
 polypeptide sequences.
 40.      An antibody that binds to an extracellular region of a chemokine receptor
 CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment of the antibody.
 41.      An antibody raised to an epitope on an extracellular region of a chemokine
 receptor CCX-CKR and/or an antigen binding fragment of the antibody.
 42.      An antibody that binds to one or more amino acids or an epitope located in one
 or more of the following regions of a human chemokine receptor CCX-CKR: amino
 acids 1 to 42, amino acids 109 to 113, amino acids 176 to 201, and amino acids 262 to
 289, or an equivalent region of the receptor in another species.

WO 2014/036608                                                      PCT/AU2013/001014
                                            72
 43.       An antibody raised against a polypeptide comprising all or part of one or more
 of polypeptide sequences SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant of any of the
 aforementioned sequences.
 44.       The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 43, wherein the antibody
 has an isotype selected from the group consisting of IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3, IgM
 and IgA.
 45.       The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 44, wherein the antibody is
 a monoclonal antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof.
 46.       The antibody according to claim 45, wherein the antibody is a human antibody
 or a humanized antibody.
 47.       The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 46, wherein the antibody
 and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof reduces binding of a ligand to a chemokine
 receptor CCX-CKR.
 48.       The antibody according to any one of claims 29 to 47, wherein the antibody
 and/or the antigen binding fragment thereof promotes internalisation of a chemokine
 receptor CCX-CKR.
 49.       A hybridoma cell expressing an antibody according to any one of claims 29 to
 48.
 50.       A method of preventing and/or treating metastatic cancer in a subject, the
 method comprising      administering   to the   subject a pharmaceutical     composition
 according to claim 28 and/or an effective amount of an antibody and/or an antigen
 binding fragment thereof according to any one of claims 29 to 48.
 51.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody and/or antigen binding
 part thereof according to any one of claims 29 to 48.
 52.       An antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof according to any one

WO 2014/036608                                                         PCT/AU2013/001014
                                              73
 of claims 29 to 48 for use in a medicament.
 53.      Use of an antibody and/or an antigen binding fragment thereof according to
 any one of claims 29 to 48 in the preparation of a medicament for preventing and/or
 treating metastatic cancer.
 54.      An isolated nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an
 antibody and/or an antigen binding part thereof according to any one of claims 29 to 48.
 55.      An expression vector comprising the nucleic acid according to claim 50.
 56.      A cell comprising the nucleic acid according to claim 54 and/or the expression
 vector according to claim 55.
 57.      A method of identifying an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a cancer,
 the method comprising:
             identifying a test agent that modulates chemokine receptor CCX-CKR
             activity;
             determining the ability of the test agent to inhibit metastasis of a cancer; and
             identifying the test agent as an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a
             cancer.
 58.      A non-naturally occurring polypeptide, an isolated polypeptide or a synthetic
 polypeptide, the polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of one or more of
 polypeptide sequences SEQ ID NOs. 5 to 24, and/or a variant or a fragment of any of
 the aforementioned polypeptide sequences.
 59.      A method of producing an antibody, the method comprising raising the
 antibody to a polypeptide according to claim 58.
 60.      An antibody raised to a polypeptide according to claim 58.
 61.      A method of identifying an antibody capable of inhibiting metastasis of a
 cancer, the method comprising:

WO 2014/036608                                                        PCT/AU2013/001014
                                             74
             producing an antibody raised against a polypeptide according to claim 58;
             determining the ability of the antibody to inhibit metastasis of a cancer; and
             identifying the antibody as an agent capable of inhibiting metastasis of a
             cancer.
 62.      A non-naturally occurring or synthetic nucleic acid comprising one or more
 nucleic sequences selected from SEQ ID NOs 1 to 4, the complement of any of the
 aforementioned nucleic acid sequences, a RNA equivalent of any of the aforementioned
 nucleic acid sequences, a modified form of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences
 and/or a variant or fragment of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences.
 63.      A small interfering RNA to a chemokine receptor CCX-CKR, wherein the
 small interfering RNA comprises one or more nucleic sequences selected from SEQ ID
 NOs 1 to 4, the complement of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences, a
 RNA equivalent of any of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences, a modified form
 of the aforementioned nucleic acid sequences and/or a variant or fragment of any of the
 aforementioned nucleic acid sequences.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                1/7
Fig. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                2/7
Fig. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                3/7
Fig. 3

             <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                          A
         C
                                        4/7
                          B
Fig. 4

<removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                          5/7
             Fig. 5

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              A
         C
                                    6/7
Fig. 6
                              B

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                7/7
Fig. 7

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - The page numbering of the Gene Sequence is a continuation
              from the Description

                                                   61
<removed-date>
                                            <U+2759><U+274A><U+25D7><U+276F><U+274A><U+25C6><U+2748><U+274A> <U+25B2><U+2759><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF>
              <U+2741><U+2736><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2746><U+275E><U+2761><U+2767><U+275B><U+2710><U+275E><U+2761> |<U+2761>s<U+2761><U+275B>r<U+275D><U+2764> <U+272B> <U+2665><U+2665><U+2666><U+2708><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> Pt<U+2461> <U+25B2>t<U+275E>
                      P<U+2761>t<U+2761>r <U+25BC><U+275B><U+275D><U+2748><U+275B><U+2767><U+2767><U+2709><U+2660> <U+2748><U+275B><U+2665><U+275D><U+2761>r <U+2665>st<U+2710>t<U+2709>t<U+2761>
              <U+2741><U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+274A><U+275A><U+274D><U+2756><U+2749><U+2759> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2749> P|<U+2756><U+2749><U+276F><U+2748><U+275A><U+2759> <U+274B><U+2756>| P|<U+274A><U+2771><U+274A><U+25C6><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+2749><U+2734><U+2756>| <U+275A>|<U+274A><U+2746><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+25BC><U+274A><U+275A><U+2746><U+2759><U+275A><U+2746><U+275A><U+2748>
                      <U+2748><U+2746><U+25C6><U+2748><U+274A>|
<removed-apn>
              <U+2741><U+2736><U+2738><U+2735><U+2743>   P<U+2736><U+2738><U+2735><U+273E><U+2735><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2736><U+273B><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2739>
              <U+2741><U+2736><U+273C><U+2735><U+2743>   P<U+275B>t<U+2761><U+2665>t<U+2665> <U+2708><U+2761>rs<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2738><U+2733><U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   <U+2749><U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+2746>rt<U+2710><U+2762><U+2710><U+275D><U+2710><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2759><U+2761>q<U+2709><U+2761><U+2665><U+275D><U+2761>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2735><U+2743>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2738><U+2743>   s<U+2660><U+275B><U+2767><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> |<U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743> <U+2736>
              t<U+275B>t<U+2763><U+275D><U+275B><U+2763><U+275B>t<U+275D> <U+275B><U+275D>tt<U+275D><U+2763>t<U+275B><U+275D>t <U+2763>
              <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+273A><U+273C>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   <U+2749><U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+2746>rt<U+2710><U+2762><U+2710><U+275D><U+2710><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2759><U+2761>q<U+2709><U+2761><U+2665><U+275D><U+2761>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2735><U+2743>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2738><U+2743>   s<U+2660><U+275B><U+2767><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> |<U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743> <U+2737>
              <U+275D><U+275D><U+2763><U+2763><U+275D><U+275B><U+2763>t<U+275B><U+275D> <U+2763><U+275B><U+275B><U+2763>t<U+2763><U+275B>t<U+275D>t <U+2763><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+275B><U+275D>t<U+275D><U+2763><U+275B> <U+2763>t<U+275B>t<U+2763><U+275D><U+275B><U+2763><U+275B>t <U+275D><U+275B><U+275D>tt<U+275D><U+2763>t<U+275B><U+275D> t<U+2763>ttttt
              <U+273A><U+273C>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2738>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   <U+2749><U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+2746>rt<U+2710><U+2762><U+2710><U+275D><U+2710><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2759><U+2761>q<U+2709><U+2761><U+2665><U+275D><U+2761>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2735><U+2743>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2738><U+2743>   s<U+2660><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> |<U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743> <U+2738>
              <U+275B>t<U+2763><U+275D><U+2763>ttt<U+2763><U+275D> t<U+275D><U+275B>t<U+275B>t<U+275D><U+2763><U+275D><U+275B> <U+2763>
              <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2739>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+273A><U+273C>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   <U+2749><U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+2746>rt<U+2710><U+2762><U+2710><U+275D><U+2710><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2759><U+2761>q<U+2709><U+2761><U+2665><U+275D><U+2761>

                                                62
<removed-date>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2735><U+2743>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2737><U+2738><U+2743>   s<U+2660><U+275B><U+2767><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+2761>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> |<U+25C6><U+2746>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743> <U+2739>
              <U+275D><U+275D><U+2763><U+2763><U+275D>t<U+2763><U+275D><U+2763><U+275B> t<U+275B>t<U+2763><U+275B><U+2763><U+275D><U+275B><U+275B><U+275B> <U+275D><U+2763><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+275D>t<U+275D><U+2763><U+275B> <U+2763><U+275B>t<U+2763><U+275D><U+2763>ttt<U+2763> <U+275D>t<U+275D><U+275B>t<U+275B>t<U+275D><U+2763><U+275D> <U+275B><U+2763>ttttt
              <U+273A><U+273C>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2739><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273A>
              <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2665>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761>
                          <U+2737><U+2735>                  <U+2737><U+273A>                  <U+2738><U+2735>
              <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> P<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767>
                      <U+2738><U+273A>                  <U+2739><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273B>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273B>
              <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2665>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461>
                          <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273C>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273C>
              <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> P<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2461>s
                          <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273D>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s

                                                63
<removed-date>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273D>
              <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+25B2><U+2461>s
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273E>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
<removed-apn>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+273E>
              <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+2767><U+2761> P<U+2764><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+275A><U+2461>r
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2767><U+2761>
                          <U+2737><U+2735>                  <U+2737><U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+273D>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25BC><U+2761>t
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709>
                          <U+2737><U+2735>                  <U+2737><U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2736>
              <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2665>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r
                          <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>                  <U+2736><U+273A>

                                                64
<removed-date>
              <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> P<U+2764><U+2761> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2461>s
                          <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
<removed-apn>
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2738>
              <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2739>
              <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2767><U+2761>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273A>
              <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A>r<U+2663> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+25BC><U+2761>t
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273B>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273B>
              <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+275A><U+2764>r Pr<U+2666> <U+2767><U+2761> P<U+2764><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+274D><U+2710>s
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273C>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273C>
              Pr<U+2666> <U+2767><U+2761> P<U+2764><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25B2><U+2461>s
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>

                                                65
<removed-date>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273D>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+25BC><U+2709>s <U+2660><U+2709>s<U+275D><U+2709><U+2767><U+2709>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273D>
              <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273E>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+273E>
              <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+275A><U+2461>r
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2735>
              <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2709> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+2767><U+2761>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2736>
              <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+274D><U+2710>s <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A>r<U+2663> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25BC><U+2761>t
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2737>
              <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+2748><U+2461>s <U+2767><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+2767><U+2761> P<U+2764><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+275A><U+2461>r
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2738>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2738>

                                                66
<removed-date>
              Pr<U+2666> <U+2767><U+2761> P<U+2764><U+2761> Pr<U+2666> <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+275A><U+2461>r <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2709> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2461> <U+275A><U+2764>r <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+25B2><U+2461>s
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2739>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736><U+2743>   <U+2736><U+2737>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737><U+2743>   P|<U+275A>
              <U+2741><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738><U+2743>   <U+274D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2666> s<U+275B><U+2663><U+2710><U+2761><U+2665>s
              <U+2741><U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2743>   <U+2737><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2746>s<U+2665> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2759><U+2761>r <U+25B2><U+2461>s <U+2746>r<U+2763> <U+25BC><U+2761>t <U+2746>s<U+2663> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+2746><U+2767><U+275B> <U+2767><U+2761> <U+25CF><U+2767><U+2665> <U+2771><U+275B><U+2767>
              <U+2736>               <U+273A>                   <U+2736><U+2735>

