                                            ABSTRACT
The utility model discloses a cargo protective net including a net body, characterized in that a
plurality of reinforcing ribs interweaving with each other are disposed on the net body. The
reinforcing ribs are fixedly connected with each other. A plurality of slip rings are disposed at
intersections between the reinforcing ribs and the edge of the net body. The edge of the net body is
provided with an end frame connecting all the reinforcing ribs. A plurality of slip rings are disposed
on an outer edge of the end frame. A plurality of snap joints are disposed at intersections between
the reinforcing ribs and the interior of the net body. The utility model has the following beneficial
effects: the utility model double-fastens cargo on a truck by means of the slip rings and snap joints.
In addition, the edge of the cargo protective net is fastened to the periphery of the cargo, and the
interior of the protective net can also be fastened to the cargo. As such, the cargo can be protected
more firmly during transportation. The cargo does not slide easily, avoiding damage to the cargo
due to collision. The net body has good air permeability, which can prevent agricultural and sideline
products from going mouldy and rotten in long-distance transportation. The net body achieves a
good dustproof effect and can protect live birds and livestock from the sun in hot summer.

     DRAWINGS OF THE SPECIFICATION
      7
            8
                                   7   4
9 -1
          | A, i--  111   J L 1|
                                         2
                        w 1--,-      3
                                 5
                   FIG. 1

                                          DESCRIPTION
                               CARGO PROTECTIVE NET
Technical Field
The utility model relates to the field of safety protection technologies, and in particular, to a cargo
protective net.
Background Art
At present, ropes are commonly used as a cargo protective apparatus to fasten and position cargo
piled on a truck during cargo transportation, so that the cargo is prevented from falling off from the
truck when the truck travels on a bumpy road during transportation, thus avoiding loss or
preventing harm to vehicles or people behind. When used for protection, the ropes have defects
such as being inconvenient, insecure, and incapable of preventing dust. The cargo may incline
towards one side during transportation, causing the vehicle to incline as well, thus affecting the
traffic order. Moreover, the existing cargo protective apparatus is poor in air permeability. Some
products, such as agricultural and sideline products, will easily go mouldy and rotten during
transportation if the protective apparatus has poor air permeability. During transportation of live
birds and livestock in hot summer, the existing protective apparatus cannot achieve a sunscreen
effect, and the live birds and livestock may easily die in hot weather.
Summary of the Utility Model
In order to solve the existing technical problem described above, the utility model is intended to
provide a cargo protective net that can safely and effectively fasten cargo on a truck and has
advantages of being air permeable and dust-proof and protecting the cargo from the sun.
The utility model achieves the foregoing objective through the following technical solution:
The utility model discloses a cargo protective net including a net body. A plurality of reinforcing
ribs interweaving with each other are disposed on the net body; the reinforcing ribs are fixedly
connected with each other; a plurality of slip rings are disposed at intersections between the
reinforcing ribs and the edge of the net body; the edge of the net body is provided with an end

                                           DESCRIPTION
frame connecting all the reinforcing ribs; a plurality of slip rings are disposed on an outer edge of
the end frame; and a plurality of snap joints are disposed at intersections between the reinforcing
ribs and the interior of the net body.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the net body is square, the outer edge of
the net body is located on the corresponding reinforcing ribs, and the net body is fixedly connected
to the reinforcing ribs at each intersection of the reinforcing ribs.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the reinforcing ribs are connected with
each other perpendicularly.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the slip rings are made of a metal
material.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the material of the net body and the
reinforcing ribs is terylene or nylon.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the material of the snap joints is
terylene.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the snap joints are fastened at
intersections of the reinforcing ribs through sewing.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, protective bands are disposed at four
vertexes of the end frame of the reinforcing ribs and the snap joints.
In order to further improve the applicability of the product, the protective band is provided with a
spring snap joint, a hook and a buckle.
Compared with the prior art, the utility model has the following beneficial effects: the net body has
a large contact area with the cargo; the strength of the protective net can be improved by disposing a
plurality of reinforcing ribs interweaving with each other on the net body; cargo on the truck is
double-fastened by disposing a plurality of slip rings at intersections between the reinforcing ribs
and the edge of the net body, disposing a plurality of slip rings on the outer edge of the end frame,

                                          DESCRIPTION
and disposing a plurality of snap joints at intersections between the reinforcing ribs and the interior
of the net body. The snap joints and the slip rings are fastened on fasteners of the truck by being
connected to protective bands, so that the friction with the cargo can be increased and the cargo
protective net does not easily shift with respect to the cargo. The edge of the cargo protective net is
fastened to the periphery of the cargo, and the interior of the protective net can also be fastened to
the cargo. As such, the cargo can be protected more firmly during transportation. The cargo does not
slide easily, avoiding damage to the cargo due to collision. The material of the net body and the
reinforcing ribs is terylene or nylon, which is high in strength and durable. The protective bands at
the four vertexes of the end frame can be adjusted to be adapted to the length of the truck, thereby
effectively fastening the cargo. The net body has good air permeability, which can prevent
agricultural and sideline products from going mouldy and rotten in long-distance transportation.
The net body achieves a good dustproof effect and can protect live birds and livestock from the sun
in hot summer.
Brief Description of the Drawings
FIG. 1 is a schematic structural diagram of the utility model.
In the drawings: 1 represents a net body, 2 represents a reinforcing rib, 3 represents a slip ring, 4
represents a snap joint, 5 represents an end frame, 6 represents a protective band, 7 represents a
spring snap joint, 8 represents a hook, and 9 represents a buckle.
Detailed Description
The utility model is further described in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings
and specific embodiments, but the protection scope of the utility model is not limited thereto.
As shown in FIG. 1, a cargo protective net of the utility model includes a net body 1. A plurality of
reinforcing ribs 2 interleaving with each other are disposed on the net body 1, which can improve
the strength of the protective net. The reinforcing ribs 2 are fixedly connected with each other. A
plurality of slip rings 3 are disposed at intersections between the reinforcing ribs 2 and the edge of
the net body. The edge of the net body 1 is provided with an end frame 5 connecting all the
reinforcing ribs 2. A plurality of slip rings 3 are disposed on an outer edge of the end frame 5. A

                                           DESCRIPTION
plurality of snap joints 4 are disposed at intersections between the reinforcing ribs 2 and the interior
of the net body 1.
The net body 1 is square and has a large contact area with the cargo. The outer edge of the net body
 1 is located on the corresponding reinforcing ribs 2, and the net body 1 is fixedly connected to the
reinforcing ribs 2 at each intersection of the reinforcing ribs 2. The reinforcing ribs are connected
with each other perpendicularly.
The slip rings 3 are made of a metal material, facilitating fastening with ropes in a container on the
truck and increasing the friction with the cargo, so that the protective net does not easily shift with
respect to the cargo.
The material of the net body 1 and the reinforcing ribs 2 is terylene or nylon, and the material of the
snap joints 4 is terylene, which is high in strength and durable.
The snap joints 4 are fastened at intersections of the reinforcing ribs 2 through sewing. The snap
joints 4 are used for fastening the cargo on the truck by being connected to protective bands.
The cargo can be double-fastened on the truck by using the slip rings 3 and the snap joints 4.
Protective bands 6 are disposed at four vertexes of the end frame 5 of the reinforcing ribs 2. The
protective bands 6 are each provided with a spring snap joint 7, a hook 8 and a buckle 9. The spring
snap joint 7 is used for hooking a fastener on the truck. The hook 8 is used for being connected to
the slip ring and snap joint. The buckle 9 is used for adjusting the length of the protective band, so
that the protective band is adapted to the length of the truck, thus effectively fastening the cargo.
The edge of the cargo protective net is fastened to the periphery of the cargo, and the interior of the
cargo protective net can also be fastened to the cargo. As such, the cargo can be protected more
firmly during transportation. The cargo does not slide easily, avoiding damage to the cargo due to
collision. The net body has good air permeability, which can prevent agricultural and sideline
products from going mouldy and rotten in long-distance transportation. The net body achieves a
good dustproof effect and can protect live birds and livestock from the sun in hot summer.
Described above are merely preferred implementations of the utility model. It should be pointed out

                                            DESCRIPTION
that for those of ordinary skill in the art, several improvements and variations can further be made
without departing from the technical principle of the utility model. These improvements and
variations should also be regarded as the protection scope of the utility model.

                                               CLAIMS
1. A cargo protective net, comprising a net body, characterized in that: a plurality of reinforcing ribs
interweaving with each other are disposed on the net body; the reinforcing ribs are fixedly
connected with each other; a plurality of slip rings are disposed at intersections between the
reinforcing ribs and the edge of the net body; the edge of the net body is provided with an end
frame connecting all the reinforcing ribs; a plurality of slip rings are disposed on an outer edge of
the end frame; and a plurality of snap joints are disposed at intersections between the reinforcing
ribs and the interior of the net body.
2. The cargo protective net according to claim 1, characterized in that: the net body is square, the
outer edge of the net body is located on the corresponding reinforcing ribs, and the net body is
fixedly connected to the reinforcing ribs at each intersection of the reinforcing ribs.
3. The cargo protective net according to claim 1, characterized in that: the reinforcing ribs are
connected with each other perpendicularly.
4. The cargo protective net according to claim 1, characterized in that: the slip rings are made of a
metal material.
5. The cargo protective net according to claim 1, characterized in that: the material of the net body
and the reinforcing ribs is terylene or nylon.
6. The cargo protective net according to claim 1, characterized in that: the material of the snap joints
is terylene.
7. The cargo protective net according to claim 6, characterized in that: the snap joints are fastened at
intersections of the reinforcing ribs through sewing.
8. The cargo protective net according to claim 1, characterized in that: protective bands are disposed
at four vertexes of the end frame of the reinforcing ribs and the snap joints.
9. The cargo protective net according to claim 8, characterized in that: the protective band is
provided with a spring snap joint, a hook and a buckle.

              DRAWINGS OF THE SPECIFICATION
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          FIG. 1
                            1

