                                          ABSTRACT:
        The invention includes a preserved ophthalmic preparation comprising povidone
iodine (PVP-) at a concentration sufficient to preserve the ophthalmic preparation, and at
least one member selected from the group consisting of a steroidal anti-inflammatory
compound, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory compound, an antibacterial compound, an anti
allergy compound, and an anti-glaucoma compound. The invention also includes adding
PVP-I to an ophthalmic composition in order to preserve the composition, wherein the PVP-I
is added at a concentration sufficient to preserve the composition.

          Povidone Iodine, A Novel Alternative Preservative For Ophthalmic Compositions
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2015252082 filed on 4
 5 November 2015, which is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2009258145 filed on
   10 June 2009, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by reference.
   Australian Application No. 2009258145 claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
   No. 61/129,222, filed on June 12, 2008, and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/201,854, filed on December 15, 2008, both of which are also incorporated by reference
10 herein in their entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
           Preservatives are currently an integral part of ophthalmic preparations. Suitable
   antimicrobial preservatives are typically added to prevent multi-dose package contamination.
15 Such agents may include benzalkonium chloride, thimerosal, chlorobutanol, methyl paraben,
   propyl paraben, phenylethyl alcohol, EDTA, sorbic acid, Onamer M, other agents disclosed to
   those skilled in the art, or a combination thereof. Benzalkonium chloride (also referred to as
   BAK or BAC) is the most common preservative used in ophthalmic preparations. Typically,
   such preservatives are employed at a level of from 0.001% to 1.0% by weight. However,
20 recent evidence highlight the potential corneal and conjunctival toxicity of BAK, which lead
   to serious medical issues such as ocular medicamentosa, decreased success of glaucoma
   surgery, or reduced compliance with ocular medications.
           The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included
   in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It
25 is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base
   or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed
   before the priority date of each claim of this application.
           Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
   this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
30 the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or
   more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                                    1

                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The invention includes a preserved ophthalmic preparation comprising povidone
   iodine (PVP-I) at a concentration sufficient to preserve the ophthalmic preparation, and at least
 5 one member selected from the group consisting of a steroidal anti-inflammatory compound, a
   non-steroidal anti-inflammatory compound, an antibacterial compound, an anti-allergy
   compound, and an anti-glaucoma compound.
           In an embodiment, PVP-I is present at a concentration selected from the group
   consisting of 0.01% to 10%, 0.1% to 2.5%, 0.2 to 1.5%, 0.3% to 1.0%. In another
10 embodiment, PVP-I is present at a concentration of 0.5%.
                                                   la

    WO 20091151619                                                       PCT/US2009/003521
           In an embodiment, the PVP-I concentration is measured on a weight/weight basis
   with respect to the overall preparation. In another embodiment, the PVP-I concentration
   is measured on a weight/volume basis with respect to the overall preparation.
           In an embodiment, a preparation includes an anti-inflammatory compound
 5 selected from the group consisting of ketotifen fumarate, diclofenac sodium, nepafenac,
   bromfenac, flurbiprofen sodium, suprofen, celecoxib, naproxen, rofecoxib, and any
   combination thereof.
           In an embodiment, a preparation includes an anti-inflammatory compound
   selected from the group consisting of dexamethasone, dexamethasone alcohol,
10 dexamethasone sodium phosphate, fluromethalone acetate, fluromethalone alcohol,
   lotoprendol etabonate, medrysone, prednisolone acetate, prednisolone sodium phosphate,
   difluprednate, rimexolone, hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone acetate, lodoxamide
   tromethamine, and any combination thereof.
           In an embodiment, a preparation further includes an antimicrobial preservative
15 selected from the group consisting of benzalkonium chloride, thimerosal, chlorobutanol,
   methyl paraben, propyl paraben, phenylethyl alcohol, EDTA, sorbic acid, Onamer M and
   any combination thereof.
           In an embodiment, a preparation further includes a viscosity increasing agent. In
   an embodiment, a viscosity increasing agent is selected from the group consisting of
20 polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methyl cellulose,
   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylcellulose, and any combination thereof
           In an embodiment, a preparation further com includes prises at least one artificial
   tears-based lubricant.
25         The invention also includes a method of preserving an ophthalmic preparation, the
   method comprising adding to an ophthalmic preparation PVP-I in an amount sufficient to
   preserve the ophthalmic preparation. In an embodiment, the method includes adding
   PVP-I to exist at a concentration selected from the group consisting of 0.01% to 10%,
   0.1% to 2.5%, 0.2 to 1.5%, and 0.3% to 1.0%. In an embodiment, PVP-I is present at a
30 concentration of 0.5%.
                                                 2

    WO 20091151619                                                      PCT/US2009/003521
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           As used herein, the term "about" means plus or minus 10% of a referenced value,
   inclusive of the value.
           Ranges set forth herein are intended to include every value between the two
 5 referenced endpoints, inclusive of the endpoint values.
           Herein, it is now shown that povidone iodine can serve as a preservative for
   variety of pharmaceutical compositions. In an aspect of the invention, povidone iodine is
   shown to be a preservative for ophthalmic preparations. Therefore, in an embodiment,
   the invention provides a preserved ophthalmic composition comprising a povidone iodine
10 composition.
           In an embodiment, povidone iodine functions as at least a preservative for variety
   of pharmaceutical compositions. In an embodiment, povidone iodine is a preservative in
   an ophthalmic composition. The concentration of povidone-iodine as a preservative in
   ophthalmic compositions can range from 0.01% - 10% (weight/weight or weight/volume),
15 and all concentrations in between. In an embodiment, the povidone-iodine concentration
   is between 0.1% and 2.5%, in another embodiment, between 0.2 and 1.5%, and in yet
   another embodiment, between 0.3% and 1.0%. In an embodiment, the povidone-iodine
   concentration is about 0.5%.
           In an aspect of the invention, povidone iodine provides an antimicrobial property
20 to an ophthalmic preparation. In another aspect, povidone iodine provides an ophthalmic
   preparation with one or more non-antimicrobial preservative properties (e.g., antioxidant).
           In an embodiment, the invention also provides povidone-iodine compositions
   comprising one or more components in addition to the povidone-iodine component, as set
   forth herein.
25         In an aspect, the invention provides a broad spectrum of povidone-iodine
   ophthalmic compositions, for example, comprising povidone iodine as a preservative to
   be used in cases of ocular conjunctival or corneal infection caused by mycobacteria,
   viruses, fungi, and amoeba. In another aspect, compositions of the invention are useful in
   the infectious prophylaxis of patients recovering from recent ophthalmic surgery, among
30 other ophthalmic procedures.
           In various embodiments, povidone-iodine ophthalmic compositions according to
   the invention include, but are not limited to the following:
           1.      Artificial-tears preparations comprising povidone iodine as a preservative.
   Artificial-tear based constituents include, but are not limited to, ophthalmically
                                                  3

   acceptable lubricants, propylene glycol, glycerin, polyethylene glycol, dextran, blended
   polyvinyl alcohols, polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, light mineral oil, hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose,     hypromellose,   carbopol,  carbomer    940  (polyacrylic   acid),   polyvinyl
   pyrrolidone, white petrolatum, soy lecithin, and sodium carboxyl methylcellulose, as well as
 5 other agents disclosed to those skilled in the art, or any combination thereof. Typically, such
   constituents are employed at a level of from 0.1% to 2% by weight. In an embodiment, the
   constituents are 1.0% Propylene glycol, 0.3% glycerin, 2.7% blended polyvinyl alcohols, 1%
   Polyvinyl Alcohol,       1% Polyethylene    Glycol, light mineral oil, 0.3% hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose, 1.0% Soy lecithin, 0.25% or 0. 5 % sodium carboxyl methylcellulose. In
10 another embodiment, the total weight of the PVP-I, artificial-tear based constituents is
   between 0. 1% and 4.50% of the total weight of the composition.
           2.       Anti-inflammatory and steroid preparations comprising povidone iodine as a
   preservative. Non-limiting examples        of suitable anti-inflammatories    include:    ketotifen
   fumarate, diclofenac sodium, nepafenac, bromfenac, flurbiprofen sodium, suprofen, celecoxib,
15 naproxen or rofecoxib. Non-limiting examples of suitable steroids include: Dexamethasone
   alcohol, dexamethasone sodium phosphate, fluromethalone acetate, fluromethalone alcohol,
   lotoprendol etabonate, medrysone, prednisolone acetate, prednisolone sodium phosphate,
   difluprednate, rimexolone, hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone acetate, lodoxamide tromethamine.
   The anti-inflammatory and steroid constituents are typically used at a concentration of 0.01%
20 to 2.0% by weight of the total composition. In an aspect, about 0.1% dexamethasone is used
   in a preserved ophthalmic preparation.
           3.       BAK-free ophthalmic compositions to treat glaucoma comprising povidone
   iodine as a preservative. Non-limiting examples of suitable glaucoma medicines include: Beta
   Blockers (levobunolol, timolol hemihydrate, betaxolol hydrochloride, timolol maleate, and
25 related    salts  thereof);  prostaglandin  analogs    (for  example   bimatoprost,    travoprost,
   Latanoprost); Alpha Agonists (brimonidine, Iopidine, apraclonidine); Carbonic Anhydrase
   Inhibitors (brinzolamide, dorzolamide). Such constituents are used at concentrations typically
   used in the art.
           4.       Antibiotic /Antimicrobial ophthalmics comprising povidone iodine as a
30 preservative. Non-limiting examples of suitable include fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin,
   levofloxacin, ofloxacin, moxifloxacin, gatifloxacin, etc...); Aminoglycosides (tobramycin,
   gentamicin, neomycin, etc...); Polymyxin B Combinations (polymyxin B/trimethoprim,
   Polysporin polymyxin B/bacitracin Neosporin polymyxin B/neomycin/ gramicidin, etc.) and
                                                    4

   other antibiotics (azithromycin, ilotycin, erythromycin, bacitracin, etc...). Typically, such
   antibiotic and antimicrobial constituents are employed at a level of from 0.001% to 1.0% by
   weight of the total composition.
           5.       Anti-Allergic preparations comprising povidone iodine as a preservative. Non
 5 limiting examples of suitable components include epinastine, emedastine difumarate azelastine
   hydrochloride, olopatadine hydrochloride, olopatadine, ketotifen fumarate, pemirolast
   potassium, nedocromil, lodoxamide, cromolyn and cromolyn salts. Such constituents are used
   at concentrations typically used in the art.
           6.       Multiple preservative ophthalmic preparations comprising povidone iodine as a
10 preservative. Non-limiting examples of suitable components include an antimicrobial
   preservative. In an embodiment, an antimicrobial preservative is selected from the group
   consisting of benzalkonium chloride, thimerosal, chlorobutanol, methyl paraben, propyl
   paraben, phenylethyl alcohol, EDTA, sorbic acid, Onamer M and combinations thereof. Such
   constituents are used at concentrations typically used in the art.
15         Additionally, non-limiting examples        of suitable excipients     for povidone-iodine
   compositions of the invention include co-solvents/surfactants, viscosity-altering agents, and/or
   bioadhesive agents. Such constituents are used at concentrations typically used in the art.
           In an aspect, the compositions of the invention may optionally include a co-solvent or
   surfactant. In an embodiment, a co-solvent may be the same or different than a surfactant. In
20 an embodiment, the solubility of the components of the compositions may be enhanced by
   inclusion of a surfactant or appropriate         co-solvent in the composition.          Such co
   solvents/surfactants    include,  but are not     limited to, polysorbate-20,      -60,  and -80,
   polyoxyethylene     /polyoxypropylene    surfactants  (e.g. Pluronic F-68, F-84 and P-103),
   cyclodextrin, tyloxapol, PEG 35 Caster oil (Cremophor EL), polyoxyl 40 Stearate (Myrj 52),
25 as well as other agents disclosed to those skilled in the art, or any combination thereof.
   Typically, such co-solvents are employed at a level of from 0.01% to 2% by weight.
           In another aspect, the compositions of the invention may optionally comprise an
   optional viscosity-increasing or viscosity-decreasing agent. Viscosity increased above that of
   simple aqueous solutions may be desirable to increase ocular absorption of the active
30 compound, to decrease variability in dispensing the formulation, to decrease physical
   separation of components of a suspension or emulsion of the formulation and/or to otherwise
   improve the ophthalmic formulation. Such viscosity-enhancing agents include, but are not
   limited      to,     polyvinyl      alcohol,     polyvinylpyrrolidone,        methyl      cellulose,
                                                    5

   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,            hydroxyethylcellulose,         carboxymethylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylcellulose, other agents disclosed to those skilled in the art, and/or any
   combination thereof. Such agents are typically employed at a level of from 0.01% to 2% by
   weight.
 5         In another aspect, bioadhesive agents may comprise the compositions, in order to
   increase the retention time of the drug gradient over a biological substrate. The bioadhesive
   agents include, but are not limited to: polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), xanthan gum, locust bean
   gum, acacia gum, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), sodium alginate, pectin, gelatin,
   carbomer, polyvinylalcohol, gellan gum, tragacanth, acacia, and sodium carboxymethyl
10 cellulose, as well as other agents disclosed to those skilled in the art, or any combination
   thereof.
           Furthermore, the compositions can be combined with an effective amount of a
   chemical agent to provide a cooling sensation to relieve mild ocular irritation, enhance ocular
   comfort, provide a refreshing effect, and improved sensation, when the povidone-iodine
15 solution is applied to the eyes. Such an agent encompasses various chemicals and chemical
   classes, including, but not limited to, cooling agents such as menthol, menthol derivatives
   including methone glycerin acetyl and menthyl esters, carboxamides, menthane glycerol
   ketals, alkyl substituted ureas, sulfonamides, terpene analogs, furanones, and phosphine
   oxides; or camphor, and borneol.
20         The povidone-iodine-comprising composition may be in the form of a solution, a
   suspension, an emulsion, an ointment, a cream, a gel, or a controlled-release/sustain-release
   vehicle. For example, the composition may be in the form of a contact lens solution, eyewash,
   eyedrop, and the like.
           In any of the compositions of this disclosure for topical administration, such as topical
25 administration to the eye, the mixtures can be formulated as aqueous solutions at a pH in the
   range of 3.5 to 6.5. It will be understood that a range listed herein is intended to encompass
   the upper and lower bounds of the range, inclusively. In an embodiment, the pH is in the range
   of 4 to 5. This pH range may be achieved by the addition of acids/bases to the solution. In
   another embodiment, the pH is in the range of 3 to 7.
30 The invention also provides methods of using a povidone-iodine-comprising composition. In
   an embodiment, the dose volume administered to a subject may be between about 10
   microliters and about 200 microliters, in another embodiment, between
                                                   6

    WO 20091151619                                                        PCT/US2009/003521
   about 20 microliters and about 100 microliters, and in another embodiment, between
   about 50 microliters and about 80 microliters, and in another embodiment, about one drop
   per eye. In an aspect, one drop may be between about 50 and about 80 microliters.
            In an embodiment, administration frequency may be anywhere in the range of 1 to
 5 100 times a day. In another embodiment, administration frequency may be between 2 and
   24 times a day. In another embodiment, administration frequency may be between 2 and
   4 times a day. While the precise regimen can be identified by the skilled artisan, the
   composition may be topically applied by placing one drop in each eye about 1 to about 24
   times daily. For example, the solution may be applied 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
10 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 48, or 96 times a day.
                                            EXAMPLES
            The invention is now described with reference to the following Examples. These
   Examples are provided for the purpose of illustration only and the invention should in no
15 way be construed as being limited to these Examples, but rather should be construed to
   encompass any and all variations which become evident as a result of the teaching
   provided herein.
            Example 1: Antimicrobial Preservative Effectiveness Tests of PVP-I preserved
20 artificial tears
            A composition including at least one artificial tear constituent according to the
   invention, further comprising PVP-I, may be used as a preservative. The preservative
   properties of a composition of the invention, such as an ophthalmic preparation
   comprising PVP-I, can be tested, for example, using USP <51>, or by any method known
25 in the art to determine the effectiveness of an antimicrobial preservative. PVP-I solutions
   having concentrations of about 0.36% by weight are prepared as set forth herein. By way
   of a non-limiting example, a PVP-I containing solution is prepared using about 0.36%
   PVP-I, by weight, as desired in the final product, and combining the PVP-I with 0.01%
   edentate disodium, 1.2% sodium sulfate, 0.25% hydroxyethylcellulose, 0.5% tyloxapol,
30 0.35% sodium chloride to adjust osmolality within 300-350 mOsm/kg, sodium hydroxide
   and/or sulfuric acid to adjust the pH to about 4.0, and enough purified water to bring the
   total volume up to 100% total.
                                                   7

    WO 20091151619                                                      PCT/US2009/003521
           The test solutions are challenged with known numbers of standard laboratory
   strains selected. At periodic intervals: 0, 7, 14, and 28 days, samples are removed and
   assayed to determine survival.
 5         Example 2: Antimicrobial Preservative Effectiveness Tests of PVP-I preserved
   0.1% dexamethasone suspension
           The preservative properties of a composition of the invention, such as an
   ophthalmic preparation comprising PVP-I, can be tested, for example, using USP <51>,
   or by any method known in the art to determine the effectiveness of an antimicrobial
10 preservative. PVP-I solutions having concentrations of about 0.18% and about 0.36% by
   weight are prepared as set forth herein. By way of a non-limiting example, a PVP-I
   containing solution is prepared using 0.18%, or 0.36% PVP-I, by weight, as desired in the
   final product, and combining the PVP-I with 0.1% dexamethasone, 0.01% edentate
   disodium, 1.2% sodium sulfate, 0.25% hydroxyethylcellulose, 0.5% tyloxapol, 0.35%
15 sodium chloride to adjust osmolality within 300-350 mOsm/kg, sodium hydroxide and/or
   sulfuric acid to adjust the pH to 4.0, and enough purified water to bring the total volume
   up to 100% total. The test solutions are challenged with known numbers of standard
   laboratory strains selected. At periodic intervals: 0, 7, 14, and 28 days, samples are
   removed and assayed to determine survival.
20
           Example 3: Antimicrobial Activity of Preserved PVP-I Solutions
           By way of a non-limiting example, PVP-I solutions having concentrations of
   about 0.36% by weight are prepared as set forth herein. By way of a non-limiting
   example, a PVP-I containing solution is prepared using 0.36% PVP-I, by weight, as
25 desired in the final product, and combining the PVP-I with 0.1% dexamethasone, 0.01%
   edentate disodium, 1.2% sodium sulfate, 0.25% hydroxyethylcellulose, 0.5% tyloxapol,
   0.35% sodium chloride to adjust osmolality within 300-350 mOsm/kg, sodium hydroxide
   and/or sulfuric acid to adjust the pH to 4.0, and enough purified water to bring the total
   volume up to 100% total. These solutions are then tested for in-vitro microbiological
30 activity. Microbiological activity can be tested for antimicrobial activity against, for
   example, bacteria found in the mouth (P. gingivalis), or against other bacteria. In another
   example, killing time tests are conducted with a series of log phase cultures of gram
   negative and gram positive organisms including Gentamicin resistant Pseudomonas
   aeruoinosa, methicilin-resistantstaph aureus, E. coli, chlamydia trachoma and selected
                                                 8

    WO 20091151619                                                        PCT/US2009/003521
   viruses. Controls used may include ophthalmic preparations of commercially available
   antimicrobial products. Bacterial samples are taken at 30 seconds, 1, 2, 5, 10 and 15
   minutes and transferred into culture media containing inactivators for iodine. Similarly,
   virus killing time tests are sampled at one minute and transferred into inactivating media.
 5 The results obtained with the experimental samples are compared with the control
   samples to assess the level of antimicrobial activity of a composition of the invention.
           Example 4:       Preparation of PVP-I preserved 0.3% tobramycin and 0.1%
   dexamethasone suspension
10         BAK-free Tobradex* ophthalmic suspension preserved with PVP-I concentration
   ranging from about 0.36% to about 0.6% by weight is prepared as set forth herein. By
   way of a non-limiting example, a composition is prepared using 0.36%, 0.48%, or 0.6%
   PVP-I, by weight, as desired in the final product, and combining with 0.3% tobramycin,
   0.1%    dexamethasone,      0.01%   edentate  disodium,     1.2%   sodium   sulfate,  0.25%
15 hydroxyethylcellulose, 0.5% tyloxapol, 0.35% sodium chloride to adjust osmolality
   within 300-350 mOsm/kg, sodium hydroxide and/or sulfuric acid to adjust the pH to
   about 4.0, and enough purified water to bring the total volume up to 100% total.
           Example 5: Preparation of PVP-I preserved 0.3% tobramycin solution
20         BAK-free     tobramycin    ophthalmic    solution   preserved   with PVP-I     in a
   concentration range of about 0.36% to about 0.6% by weight is prepared as set forth
   herein. By way of a non-limiting example, an composition is prepared using 0.36%,
   0.48%, or 0.6% PVP-I, by weight, as desired in the final product, and combining with
   0.3% tobramycin, boric acid, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, tyloxapol, sodium
25 hydroxide and/or sulfuric acid (to adjust pH) and purified water.
           Example 6:     Preparation of PVP-I preserved 0.5% moxifloxacin hydrochloride
   ophthalmic solution
           BAK-free moxifloxacin hydrochloride ophthalmic solution preserved with PVP-I
30 in a concentration range of about 0.36% to about 0.6% by weight is prepared as set forth
   herein. By way of a non-limiting example, a composition is prepared using 0.36%,
   0.48%, or 0.6% PVP-I, by weight, as desired in the final product, and combining with
   0.5% moxifloxacin hydrochloride, boric acid, sodium chloride, and purified water. In an
                                                 9

    WO 20091151619                                                        PCT/US2009/003521
   embodiment, a preserved ophthalmic solution comprises hydrochloric acid and/or sodium
   hydroxide to adjust pH.
            Example 7: Preparation of PVP-I preserved 1.0% prednisolone acetate suspension
 5          BAK-free    prednisolone   acetate   suspension   preserved    with PVP-I     in  a
   concentration range of about 0.36% to about 0.6% by weight is prepared as set forth
   herein. By way of a non-limiting example, a composition is prepared using 0.36%,
   0.48%, or 0.6% PVP-I, by weight, as desired in the final product, and combining with
   1.0% prednisolone acetate, boric acid, edetate disodium, hypromellose, polysorbate 80,
10 sodium bisulfite, sodium citrate, sodium chloride, and purified water.
            The invention has been described herein by reference to certain embodiments.
   However, as variations thereof will become apparent to those skilled in the art, when
   armed with the disclosure set forth herein, the invention is not to be considered as limited
15 thereto.    All patents, patent applications, and references cited herein are hereby
   incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                                10

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.     A preserved ophthalmic preparation comprising:
                   a.     povidone-iodine (PVP-I) at a concentration sufficient to preserve said
 5 ophthalmic preparation, and
                   b.     at least one member selected from the group consisting of a steroidal
   anti-inflammatory compound, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory compound, an antibacterial
   compound, an anti-allergy compound, and an anti-glaucoma compound.
10         2.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1, wherein the PVP-I is present at a
   concentration selected from the group consisting of 0.01 % to 10%, 0.l1% to 2.5%, 0.2 to 1.5%,
   0.3% to 1.0%.
           3.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1, wherein the PVP-I is present at a
15 concentration of 0.5%.
           4.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 2, wherein the PVP-I concentration is
   measured on a weight/weight basis with respect to the overall preparation.
20         5.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 2, wherein the PVP-I concentration is
   measured on a weight/volume basis with respect to the overall preparation.
           6.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1, wherein said anti-inflammatory
   compound is selected from the group consisting of ketotifen fumarate, diclofenac sodium,
25 nepafenac, bromfenac, flurbiprofen sodium, suprofen, celecoxib, naproxen, rofecoxib, and any
   combination thereof.
           7.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1, wherein said anti-inflammatory
   compound is selected from the group consisting of dexamethasone, dexamethasone alcohol,
30 dexamethasone sodium phosphate, fluromethalone acetate, fluromethalone alcohol,
   lotoprendol etabonate, medrysone, prednisolone acetate, prednisolone sodium phosphate,
   difluprednate, rimexolone, hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone acetate, lodoxamide tromethamine,
   and any combination thereof.
                                                  11

            8.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1, wherein said preparation further
   comprises an antimicrobial preservative selected from the group consisting of benzalkonium
   chloride, thimerosal, chlorobutanol, methyl paraben, propyl paraben, phenylethyl alcohol,
 5 EDTA, sorbic acid, Onamer M and any combination thereof.
            9.      The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1 wherein said preparation further
   comprises a viscosity increasing agent.
10          10.     The ophthalmic preparation of claim 9 wherein said viscosity increasing agent
   is selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methyl
   cellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylcellulose, and any combination thereof.
15          11.     The ophthalmic preparation of claim 1, wherein the preparation comprises at
   least one artificial tears-based lubricant.
            12.     A method of preserving an ophthalmic preparation comprising adding to said
   ophthalmic preparation PVP-I in an amount sufficient to preserve said ophthalmic preparation.
20
            13.     The method of claim 12, wherein said PVP-I is present at a concentration
   selected from the group consisting of 0.01 % to 10%, 0.10%to 2.5%, 0.2 to 1.5%, 0.3% to
   1.0%.
25          14.     The method of claim 12, wherein the PVP-I is present at a concentration of
   0.5%.
            15.     The method of claim 12, wherein the PVP-I concentration is measured on a
   weight/weight basis with respect to the overall preparation.
30
            16.     The method of claim 12, wherein the PVP-I concentration is measured on a
   weight/volume basis with respect to the overall preparation.
                                                  12

