                                          ABSTRACT
         An object of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for predicting
an effective dose of or the sensitivity to 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide, which are
capable of performing a determination in a simple operation and a short time, a method for
determining amounts of xanthosine monophosphate, and a treatment agent and treatment
method for treating myelodysplastic syndrome.      According to the present invention, provided
are    a  method    for   predicting    an   effective   dose   of   or   the   sensitivity   to
5-hydroxy-11-imidazole-4-carboxamide,       including   determining   amounts   of xanthosine
monophosphate in blood and a prediction apparatus, a method for determining amounts of
xanthosine monophosphate, including determining xanthosine monophosphate in blood in two
different determining conditions by mass spectrometry, and a treatment agent and treatment
method for treating myelodysplastic syndrome.

                                                1
        METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PREDICTING EFFECTIVE DOSE OR
    SENSITIVITY OF 5-HYDROXY-1H-IMIDAZOLE-4-CARBOXAMIDE,                          METHOD
     FOR DETERMINING AMOUNT OF XANTHOSINE MONOPHOSPHATE, AND
    TREATMENT AGENT AND METHOD FOR TREATING MYELODYSPLASTIC
                                         SYNDROME
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 1. Field of the Invention
[0001] The present invention relates to a method for predicting an effective dose of
5-hydroxy-lH-imidazole-4-carboxamide        or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for a
myelodysplastic syndrome patient.       The present invention further relates to a method for
predicting whether or not a myelodysplastic syndrome patient is sensitive to a treatment using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.        The present
invention further relates to a method for determining amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in
blood.    The present invention further relates to an apparatus for predicting an effective dose
of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide for a myelodysplastic syndrome patient, and an
apparatus for predicting whether or not a myelodysplastic syndrome patient is sensitive to a
treatment using 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
The present invention further relates to a treatment agent and a treating method for use in the
treatment of a myelodysplastic syndrome patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a
treatment using 5-hydroxy- 1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
2. Description of the Related Art
 [0002] 5-Hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide (hereinafter, refe1red to as "Compound A") or
a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof is known to be useful in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)
(Cancer and Chemotherapy, 1989, Vol. 16, No. 1, pp. 123-130).           Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof is converted in vivo into ribosyl monophosphate (RMP) by
adenine      phosphoribosyltransferase   (APRT),     and   inhibits   inosine-5'-monophosphate
dehydrogenase (IMPDH).         IMPDH is an enzyme that produces xanthosine monophosphate
(XMP) from inosine monophosphate (IMP).
 [0003] As an IMPDH inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent, such as mycophenolic acid or
mycophenolate mofetil, is lmown.       Regarding these immunosuppressive agents, a method of
evaluating the degree of inhibition by an IMPDH inhibitor has been reported which includes
adding IMP in vitro to the cell lysate of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), which is

                                                   2
a fraction containing lymphocytes obtained from blood, to allow an enzymatic reaction by
IMPDH, and determining an amount of XMP (Analytical Chemistry, 2012, Vol. 84, pp.
216-223).
[0004]      For the analysis of nucleotides, methods using hydrophilic interaction liquid
chromatography-mass           spectrometry     (HILIC-MS)     and     aqueous     normal      phase
chromatography-mass spectrometry have been reported (Analytical Chemistry, 2012, Vol. 84,
pp. 1994-2001).        Moreover, for the analysis of XMP, methods involving reversed-phase
chromatography using an ion pair reagent and ion exchange chromatography have been
reported.
[0005] XMP produced by IMPDH is further converted by an in vivo enzymatic reaction into
guanosine monophosphate (GMP), guanosine diphosphate (GDP), and guanosine triphosphate
(GTP) which in turn serve as a material for the synthesis of nucleic acids (Stryer Biochemistry
( 7 th edition), 2013, pp. 689-693).
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] MDS is a disease in which dysplasia of blood cell morphology and hematocytopenia
may be recognized, and therapeutic effects of a therapeutic agent for this are evaluated mainly
by hematologic remission and improvement.          However, since it takes time for the effects of a
therapeutic agent to be expressed, it is difficult to monitor the effects of a therapeutic agent
over a short time.      The method described Analytical Chemistry, 2012, Vol. 84, pp. 216-223
requires complicated operations and time in the fractionation of PBMC.            In addition, this
method is a method in which non-endogenous IMP is added for evaluation, and does not
accurately reflect the degree of IMPDH inhibition in vivo.
[0008] A variety of attempts have been made to analyze nucleotides.             However, because
nucleotides are hydrophilic low-molecular weight compounds, there is a difficulty of retention
thereof in reversed-phase chromatography commonly used for analysis.              Moreover, since
nucleotides have a phosphate group, they are susceptible to occurrence of adsorption and/or
tailing at the time of separation analysis.      For these reasons, quantification of endogenous
nucleotides is difficult.    In addition, there are many types having similar mass and structure
in the metabolites of nucleotides.      Since these metabolites exhibit very similar behavior and
retention time in liquid chromatography (LC) in many cases, it is difficult to quantitatively
distinguish them by liquid chromatography-mass             spectrometry (LC-MS).         Analytical
Chemistry, 2012, Vol. 84, pp. 216-223 has reported the analysis of XMP.              However, this

                                                3
method focuses on XMP-rich samples and is not an analysis of endogenous XMP which is
present in trace amounts.
[0009] It is an object of the present invention to provide a method for predicting an effective
dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for an MDS patient, in a simple
operation and a short time.
          It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for predicting
whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof, in a simple operation and a short time.
[0010] It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method for accurately
determining amounts of XMP which is present in trace amounts in blood.
          It is a still further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for
predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for an MDS
patient, in a simple operation and a short time, and an apparatus for predicting whether or not
an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof.
          It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a treatment agent and a
method for treating a patient, for use in the treatment of an MDS patient who has been
predicted to be sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof.
[0011] As a result of intensive studies to solve the above problems, the present inventors have
found that an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for an MDS
patient, and the sensitivity of an MDS patient to a treatment using Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof can be predicted by determining a variation in amounts of XMP in
blood.     Furthermore, the present inventors have found that by setting the determining
conditions in MS, it is possible to accurately determine amounts of XMP which is present in
trace amounts in blood.     The present invention has been completed based on these findings.
[0012] That is, according to the present invention, the following inventions are provided.
          [I] A method for predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof for an MDS patient, comprising:
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient
before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing

                                                  4
the blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof;
          (b) a step of determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained in
step (a); and
          (c) a step of predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof from the variation of XMP obtained in step (b).
 [0013] [2] The method according to [1], in which the blood is peripheral blood.
          [3] The method according to [1] or [2], in which the step of determining amounts of
XMP is a step carried out using conditions in which contaminants and XMP in blood can be
quantitatively distinguished.
          [4] The method according to any one of [1] to [3], in which the step of determining
amounts of XMP is a step of determining amounts of XMP by mass spectrometry (MS).
 [0014] [5] The method according to [4], in which the step of determining amounts of XMP
includes
          (al) a step of determining XMP in blood in two different determining conditions by
MS,
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions obtained in step (al), and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood obtained in
step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
          [6] The method according to [5], in which step (al) is a step of determining XMP in
blood in two different determining conditions by LC-MS.
          [7] The method according to [6], in which the pH value of the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography (LC) is 7 to 11.
          [8] The method according to [6] or [7], in which the salt concentration of the mobile
phase used for LC is 5 mmol/L to 300 mmol/L.
          [9] The method according to any one of [6] to [8], in which the mobile phase used for
LC is a mobile phase including an aqueous ammonium bicarbonate solution.
[0015] [10] The method according to any one of [6] to [9], in which the LC is hydrophilic
interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC).
          [11] The method according to any one of [5] to [10], in which the two different
determining conditions are detection ions and/or ionization conditions in MS.
          [12] The method according to any one of [1] to [11], in which step (c) is a step

                                                 5
including
          (ci) a step of expressing the relationship between the post-administration time or
contact time of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof and the variation of XMP
obtained in step (b) in terms of a function therebetween, and
          (c2) a step of predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof from the function obtained in step (cI).
          [13] The method according to [12], in which step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting that the dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof at which a
variation of XMP is greater than or equal to a predetermined variation in a given treatment
period is an effective dose.
          [14] The method according to [12], in which step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting that the dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof at which a
variation of XMP is greater than or equal to a predetermined variation in a period longer than
or equal to a specified proportion of a given treatment period is an effective dose.
[0016] [15] A method for predicting whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment
using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, comprising:
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient
before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing
the blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof;
          (b) a step of determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained in
step (a); and
          (c) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained in step
(b).
[0017] [16] The method according to [15], in which the blood is peripheral blood.
          [17] The method according to [15] or [16], in which the step of determining amounts
of XMP is a step carried out using conditions in which contaminants and XMP in blood can be
quantitatively distinguished.
          [18] The method according to any one of [15] to [17], in which the step of
determining amounts of XMP is a step of determining amounts of XMP by MS.

                                                 6
[0018] [19] The method according to [18], in which the step of determining amounts of XMP
is a step including
          (al) a step of determining XMP in blood in two different determining conditions by
MS,
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions obtained in step (al), and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood obtained in
step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
          [20] The method according to [19], in which step (al) is a step of determining XMP
in blood in two different determining conditions by LC-MS.
          [21] The method according to [20], in which the pH value of the mobile phase used
for LC is 7 to 11.
          [22] The method according to [20] or [21], in which the salt concentration of the
mobile phase used for LC is 5 mrnol/L to 300 mmol/L.
          [23] The method according to any one of [20] to [22], in which the mobile phase used
for LC is a mobile phase including an aqueous ammonium bicarbonate solution.
[0019] [24] The method according to any one of [20] to [23], in which the LC is HILIC.
          [25] The method according to any one of [19] to [24], in which the two different
detenining conditions are detection ions and/or ionization conditions in MS.
          [26] The method according to any one of [15] to [25], in which step (c) is a step
including
          (c1) a step of expressing the relationship between the post-administration time or
contact time of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof and the variation of XMP
obtained in step (b) in terms of a function therebetween, and
          (c2) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the function obtained in step (cI).
          [27] The method according to [26], in which step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting that a patent is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof, in the case where the variation of XMP is greater than or equal to a
predetermined variation in a given treatment period.
          [28] The method according to [26], in which step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting that a patent is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof, in the case where the variation of XMP is greater than or equal to a

                                                7
predetermined variation in a period longer than or equal to a specified proportion of a given
treatment period.
 [0020] [29] A method for determining amounts of XMP in blood, comprising:
          (al) a step of determining XMP in blood in two different determining conditions by
MS;
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions obtained in step (al); and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood obtained in
step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
          [30] The method according to [29], in which step (al) is a step of determining XMP
in blood in two different determining conditions by LC-MS.
          [0021] [31] The method according to [30], in which the pH value of the mobile phase
used for LC is 7 to 11.
          [32] The method according to [30] or [31], in which the salt concentration of the
mobile phase used for LC is 5 mmol/L to 300 mmol/L.
          [33] The method according to any one of [30] to [32], in which the mobile phase used
for LC is a mobile phase including an aqueous ammonium bicarbonate solution.
          [34] The method according to any one of [30] to [33], in which the LC is HILIC.
          [35] The method according to any one of [29] to [34], in which the two different
determining conditions are detection ions and/or ionization conditions in MS.
 [0022] [36] An apparatus for predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof for an MDS patient, comprising:
          (A) a means of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing
the blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof;
          (B) a means of determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained
by the means described in (A); and
          (C) a means of predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained by the means described in (B).
          [37] The apparatus according to [36], in which the means of determining amounts of

                                                   8
XMP is a means using an MS instrument.
           [38] The apparatus according to [37], in which the MS instrument is an LC apparatus
coupled to an MS instrument (LC-MS instrument).
 [0023] [39] An apparatus for predicting whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a
treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, comprising:
          (A) a means of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof into contact with the blood collected from
the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof;
          (B) a means of determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained
by the means described in (A); and
          (C) a means of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained by the
means described in (B).
[40] The apparatus according to [39], in which the means described in (A) is a means using an
MS instrument.
[41] The apparatus according to [40], in which the MS instrument is an LC apparatus coupled
to an MS instrument (LC-MS instrument).
[0024] [42] A treatment agent for treating an MDS patient, comprising a step of predicting
whether or not the MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof,
          in which an active ingredient is Compound A,
          in which the predicting step is a step including
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient
before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing
the blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          (b) a step of detennining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained in
step (a), and

                                                  9
          (c) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained in step
(b), and
          in which the patient is a patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment
using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
 [0025] [43] A method for treating MDS for use in the treatment of an MDS patient, comprising
a step of predicting whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          in which an active ingredient is Compound A,
          in which the predicting step is a step including
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient
before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing
the blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          (b) a step of determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained in
step (a), and
          (c) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained in step
(b), and
          in which the patient is a patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment
using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
[0026] The prediction method of the present invention is a method using blood as a sample,
and can thereby predict an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof
for an MDS patient in a simple operation and a short time.       Further, it is possible to predict
whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof in a simple operation and a short time.
[0027] By predicting the effective dose, it is possible to appropriately set the dose required for
exhibiting sufficient drug efficacy.    The administration of more than the required amount can
be avoided and therefore it becomes possible to reduce side effects.          Also, by predicting
whether or not a patient is sensitive, it is possible to avoid unnecessary administration to a
patient who exhibits no sensitivity to Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.

                                                10
 [0028] The determining method of the present invention can accurately determine amounts of
XMP which is present in trace amounts in blood.
 [0029] The prediction apparatus of the present invention is an apparatus using blood as a
sample, and can thereby be used to predict an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof for an MDS patient in a simple operation and a short time.       Further, it
can be used for predicting whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof in a simple operation and a short time.
[0030] Since the treatment agent and the treatment method of the present invention are used in
the treatment of an MDS patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, it is possible to avoid unnecessary
administration to a patient who exhibits no sensitivity to Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof.
          The method and the treatment agent of the present invention may be applied to kits
for treating MDS patients, according to conventional methods.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0031] Fig. 1 shows the antitumor effect of Compound A.
          Fig. 2 shows the results of the PKJPD analysis (PK parameter: Cmax).
          Fig. 3 shows the results of the PK/PD analysis (PK parameter: Time above IC50).
          Fig. 4 shows the results of the PK/PD analysis (PK parameter: AUCO-48).
          Fig. 5 shows the determination results of XMP in the XMP standard and human blood
(sample) (determining conditions: A and B).
          Fig. 6 shows the determination results of XMP in the XMP standard and human blood
(sample) (determining conditions: C and D).
          Fig. 7 shows the determination results of XMP in the XMP standard and human blood
(sample) (determining conditions: A' and B').
          Fig. 8 shows the determination results of XMP in the human blood (LC conditions: a
and b).
                  DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0032] Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in detail. Further, the wording "(a
lower limit) to (an upper limit)" means to include the former number indicating the lower limit
of the range and the latter number indicating the upper limit thereof.

                                                 11
         The term "treatment" means the prevention or treatment of a disease.
         The term "treatment agent" means a substance that is used for the purpose of
prevention or treatment of a disease.
         The term "treatment period" means a period for applying a treatment.
         The ionic strength includes, for example, the strength of the corresponding ion on the
peak area or MS spectrum obtained from the chromatogram in LC-MS.
         The term "XMP standard" means a preparation which is used when determining XMP
in blood.     The XMP standard may be, for example, a sodium salt of xanthosine
monophosphate which is commercially available.
[0033] (1) Method for predicting effective dose of Compound A or salt thereof or hydrate
thereof for MDS patient, and method for predicting whether or not MDS patient is sensitive to
treatment using Compound A or salt thereof or hydrate thereof
         In the method according to the present invention, step (a) includes determining (i)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient before the administration of
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts of XMP in the blood
collected from the patient after the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bring the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof into
contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
[0034] Examples of the salt of Compound A include commonly known salts at a basic group
or an acidic group.    Examples of the salt of a basic group may include salts with mineral
acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrogen bromide, phosphoric acid, and sulfuric acid; salts
with organic carboxylic acids such as tartaric acid, formic acid, acetic acid, fumaric acid,
maleic acid, citric acid, trichloroacetic acid, and trifluoroacetic acid; and salts with sulfonic
acids   such   as metbanesulfonic      acid,  benzenesulfonic     acid,   p-toluenesulfonic     acid,
mesitylenesulfonic acid, and naphthalenesulfonic acid.       Examples of the salt of an acidic
group may include salts with alkali metals such as sodium and potassium; salts with alkaline
earth   metals   such  as    calcium   and   magnesium;     ammonium       salts; and    salts with
nitrogen-containing organic bases such as trimethylamine, triethylamine, tributylamine,
trometamol,    pyridine,   N,N-dimethylaniline,     N-methylpiperidine,       N-methylnorpholine,
diethylamine, dicyclohexylamine, procaine, dibenzylamine, N-benzyl-p-phenethylamine, and
N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine.        Among     the aforementioned       salts, preferred    salts of
Compound A are pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof.

                                                 12
[0035] Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof can be prepared by the method
described     in,    for    example,     JP1978-32124A       (JP-S53-32124A),      JP1983-24569A
(JP-S58-24569A), W02009/035168A or W02013/047758A.
 [0036] A feature of the present invention is the use of amounts of XMP in blood as an
indicator.   It is desirable to evaluate the IMPDH inhibitory effect using bone marrow cells of
the bone marrow which is the lesion, in order to accurately predict an effective dose of a drug
to MDS and the sensitivity to a drug.        However, since the extraction of bone marrow cells
suffers from heavy physical and mental burden given to a patient, the extraction frequency is
limited.    For this reason, the bone marrow cells necessary for the evaluation of IMPDH
inhibitory effect are conventionally unavailable.      In the present invention, it has been found
for the first time that the IMPDH inhibitory effect of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof is equivalent in bone marrow cells and peripheral blood cells.        This makes it
possible to predict the IMPDH inhibitory effect on bone marrow cells from the IMPDH
inhibitory effect on blood cells, and therefore it has become possible to predict an effective
dose of a drug to MDS and the susceptibility to a drug.        Blood used in the present invention
is not particularly limited, and may be, for example, peripheral blood, blood which is pooled in
bone marrow, spleen or liver, a lymphatic fluid, a tissue fluid or umbilical cord blood,
preferably peripheral blood.       Collection of blood from a patient can be carried out by
conventional methods well known to those skilled in the art.        Further, the blood used in the
present invention is preferably whole blood from the viewpoint of carrying out the prediction
in a simple operation and a short time.
 [0037] Step (a) in the present invention can be carried out in any one of the following two
embodiments.       The first embodiment is an embodiment of determining amounts of XMP in
the blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof
 or a hydrate thereof and amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the
 administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
          The second embodiment is an embodiment of determining amounts of XMP in the
 blood collected from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof and amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing the blood collected
 from the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof
 into contact with Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
 [0038] In a first embodiment, the Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof
 administered to a patient exerts its action in contact with blood cells in the body of the patient.

                                                 13
In a second embodiment, by bringing the blood collected from the patient before the
administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof into contact with
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof in vitro, the Compound A or a salt thereof or
a hydrate thereof exerts its action on blood cells.
[0039] In the present invention, amounts of XMP can be determined, for example, by MS.
Prior to determination by MS, a blood sample may be subjected to crude separation of the
sample, such as protein removal, or may be subjected to separation of components in the
sample, such as by LC,
[0040] Because proteins, peptides and lipids contained in blood are typical interfering
components of MS determination, these interfering components may be previously removed
by the crude separation of the sample.     For example, the crude separation may be carried out
by fractionation processing (such as fractionation of cellular components by centrifugation,
and removal of liquid components and/or red blood cells by hemolysis operation), filtration,
processing of removed proteins, liquid-phase extraction and/or solid-phase extraction.
Further, the crude separation of the sample, along with the separation and detection operations
of components to be described later, may also be carried out on-line by pre-column or column
switching, and the like.
[0041] Further, in the present invention, after LC separation of components in a sample, the
sample is preferably supplied to an MS instrument.
         As a method for separating components in the sample, it is possible to employ HILIC,
reversed-phase chromatography (RP), chromatography using an ion pair reagent or ion
exchange chromatography.        Modes and determining conditions are not particularly limited as
long as required separation and performance are obtained and elution can be carried out with a
mobile phase composition that can be introduced into MS.         A separation method such as
capillary electrophoresis or gas chromatography may also be used.
[0042] The contaminants that may be detected in the determination of XMP may include, for
example, a compound having a mass similar to that of XMP, a compound that produces the
compound having a mass similar to that of XMP by degradation or the like and/or a compound
having an elution time of LC similar to that of XMP.      The compound having a mass similar
to that of XMP may be, for example, an isotope of GMP.         The compound that produces the
compound having a mass similar to that of XMP by degradation or the like may be, for
example, an isotope of GDP and an isotope of GTP.      The compound having an elution time of
LC similar to that of XMP may be, for example, reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide

                                                 14
phosphate (NADPH).
 [0043] The step of determining amounts of XMP by MS is preferably carried out using
conditions in which contaminants and XMP in blood can be quantitatively distinguished.         It
has been found through the review of the present inventors that the contaminants that may be
detected in the determination of XMP (mass 364.04) include isotopes (mass 364.06 and mass
364.06) of GIP (mass 363.06) having a similar structure and a mass smaller by 1, isotopes of
the in-source decomposition product of GDP and GTP (resulting in GMP by decomposition in
the ionization moiety), and divalent ions derived from NADPH.
[0044] During the LC-MS determination, it is preferred to avoid the influence of contaminants
and selectively detect XMP.      In the present invention, by establishing a method of verifying
whether XMP is detectable with sufficient specificity, it has become possible to selectively
and conveniently quantify XMP with high sensitivity even under the conditions where a wide
variety of and a large amount of contaminants are present.
[0045] Preferably, the step of determining amounts of XMP is a step including
            (al) a step of determining XMP in blood in two different determining conditions by
MS,
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions obtained in step (al), and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood obtained in
step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
[0046] The details of the XMP determining method including (a1) to (a3) will be described
later herein.
[0047] The quantification of XMP may be carried out by a known quantitative method, such
as a calibration curve method (external standard method, standard addition method or internal
standard method), or an isotope dilution method, and the quantitative method is not
particularly limited.
[0048] In the present invention, subsequently to step (a), step (b) carries out a step of
determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained in step (a).
[0049] The method of determining the variation of XMP is not particularly limited and the
variation of XMP may be calculated, for example, according to the following equation.
          Variation (%)=(1-(amount of XMP after administration of Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof/amount of XMP prior to administration of Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof)) x100

                                                 15
          or
          Variation (%)=(1 -(amount of XMP after bringing into contact with Compound A or a
salt thereof or a hydrate thereof/amount of XMP prior to bringing into contact with Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof)) x100
          In addition, as the amount of XMP, a value per unit blood volume may also be used,
but a value per unit blood cell number is preferably used.
[0050] In the present invention, subsequently to step (b), step (c) predicts an effective dose of
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained in step
(b), or predicts whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of XMP obtained in step (b).
[0051] For example, step (c) can be carried out by (ci) a step of expressing the relationship
between the post-administration time of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof and
the variation of XMP obtained in step (b) in terms of a function therebetween, and (c2) a step
of predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
function obtained in step (c1).      In addition, step (c) can be carried out by (ci) a step of
expressing the relationship between the post-administration time of Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof and the variation of XMP obtained in step (b) in terms of a
function therebetween, and (c2) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a
treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the function obtained
in step (c1).
[0052] Further, step (c) can be carried out by (c1) a step of expressing the relationship between
the contact time of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof and the variation of
XMP obtained in step (b) in terms of a function therebetween, and (c2) a step of predicting an
effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the function obtained
in step (ci).     In addition, step (c) can be carried out by (ci) a step of expressing the
relationship between the contact time of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof and
the variation of XMP obtained in step (b) in terms of a function therebetween, and (c2) a step
of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof from the function obtained in step (c1).
 [0053] Step (c2) predicts that the dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof at
which the variation of XMP is greater than or equal to a predetermined variation (decline rate)
in a given treatment period is an effective dose.
          In addition, step (c2) predicts that a patient is sensitive to a treatment using

                                               16
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof in the ease where the variation of XMP is
greater than or equal to a predetermined variation (decline rate) in a given treatment period.
[0054] The predetermined treatment period may be appropriately selected depending on the
species of organism.     For example, the given treatment period may be from one day to two
months, or may also be a period longer than or equal to a specified proportion of the given
treatment period.
         The period longer than or equal to a specified proportion of the given treatment
period may be appropriately selected depending on the species of organism, and for example,
it may be a period longer than or equal to 40% of the given treatment period.
         The predetermined variation may be appropriately selected depending on the species
of organism, and for example, it may be 45% or more (preferably 50% or more, and more
preferably 55% or more).
[0055] For example, it can be predicted that in a period longer than or equal to 40% of the
treatment period using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, a dose such that the
variation of XMP (decline rate) becomes 45% or more (preferably 50% or more, and more
preferably 55% or more) is an effective dose.      An effective dose of Compound A or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof obtained here may be administered to an      DS patient.
         Further, for example, it can be predicted that in a period longer than or equal to 40%
of the treatment period using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, a patient is
sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof in the case
where the variation of XMP (decline rate) becomes 45% or more (preferably 50% or more,
and more preferably 55% or more).       The Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof
may be administered to a patient who has been predicted to be sensitive.
[0056] (2) Method for determining amounts of XMP in blood
         The method of determining amounts of XMP in blood according to the present
invention is a method including
          (al) a step of determining XMP in blood in two different determining conditions by
MS,
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions obtained in step (al), and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood obtained in
step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
[0057] In step (al), XMP is detected by MS.          It has become possible to quantitatively

                                                 17
distinguish between XMP and contaminants by carrying out the determination in two different
determining conditions in step (al), determining an ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in
two different determining conditions in step (a2), and checking whether the ionic strength ratio
is within a predetermined range in step (a3).
         In step (al), it is preferred that the separation of a sample is carried out by LC and
XMP is detected by MS (LC-MS).
[0058] In another embodiment, the method of determining amounts of XMP in blood
according to the present invention may employ a method including
          (all) a step of detennining an XMP standard and XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions by MS,
          (al2) a step of determining the ionic strength ratio of the XMP standard and the ionic
strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different determining conditions obtained in (all), and
          (al3) a step of comparing the ionic strength ratio of the XMP standard and the ionic
strength ratio of XMP in blood obtained in (a12).
          Step (al2) determines the ionic strength ratio of the XMP standard and the ionic
strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different determining conditions obtained in step (all),
and step (al3) compares the ionic strength ratio of the XMP standard and the ionic strength
ratio of XMP in blood obtained in step (a12).
         Here, in the case where the ionic strength ratio of the blood sample and the ionic
strength ratio of the XMP standard are within a predetermined range, it can be determined that
XMP in blood can be detected with high specificity.       On the contrary, in the case where the
ionic strength ratio of the blood sample and the ionic strength ratio of the XMP standard are
outside a predetermined range, it is determined that the selectivity was insufficient in either or
both of the conditions that took the ratio.
[0059] The LC may employ HILIC, RP, chromatography using an ion pair reagent or ion
exchange chromatography, and preferably HILIC.
[0060] As the mobile phase used for LC, a mobile phase A of a basic aqueous solution and a
mobile phase B containing an organic solvent can be preferably used.
         The pH value of the mobile phase A is preferably 7 to 11, more preferably 8 to 11,
even more preferably 8.4 to 10.4, and particularly preferably 9.0 to 9.8.
         The pH value of the mobile phase A may be set according to the type of column to be
used.
         The salt concentration of the mobile phase used for LC is preferably 5 mmol/L to 300

                                                18
mmol/L, and more preferably 20 mmol/L to 200 mmol/L.
          The LC-MS determination typically employs a low salt concentration in order to give
high sensitivity (e.g., 10 mmol/L), whereas the present invention employs a higher salt
concentration as compared to typical salt. concentration, whereby it became possible to
separate XMP from contaminants.
          The mobile phase A used for LC preferably contains an aqueous ammonium
bicarbonate solution.
[0061] The organic solvent used in the mobile phase B may be, for example, acetonitrile,
methanol, 2-propanol or ethanol, and is preferably acetonitrile or methanol and more
preferably acetonitrile.
[0062] In one example of the present invention, XMP can be separated from contaminants by
carrying out elution using a gradient method with an HILIC column (e.g., SeQuant
ZIC-pHILIC, manufactured by Merck Ltd.) and a 50 mmol/L aqueous ammonium bicarbonate
solution (adjusted to pH 9.4 by 25 mass% aqueous ammonia solution) and acetonitrile as
mobile phases, with the time-dependent change in the ratio of mobile phase A to mobile phase
B, or an isocratic method with a fixed ratio of mobile phase A to mobile phase B.
[0063] In the case where acetonitrile is used as mobile phase B, the concentration of
acetonitrile in the mobile phase is preferably 20 volume% to 90 volume%, more preferably 35
volume% to 70 volume%, and still more preferably 65 volume%.          The elution may be carried
out by gradient elution with a variable ratio of mobile phase B to mobile phase A over time,
but an isocratic method without changing the ratio of mobile phase A to mobile phase B is
preferred in that the separation of contaminants is improved and analysis can be carried out in
the condition where an injection volume is increased.
[0064] The present invention determines XMP in blood in two different determining
conditions by MS.
[0065] In the MS method, the components of a sample are ionized and XMP-derived ions are
selected and detected by an MS instrument.      In order to detect selectively XMP from a large
amount of and a wide variety of contaminants having mass and structures similar to those of
XMP, it is preferred to secure high mass filter effects by means of (1) determination in an
MS/MS mode, (2) use of high resolution MS instrument, or (3) use of both (1) and (2).
Furthermore, the method of the present invention is characterized by setting the separation
conditions and MS conditions (detection ions and/or ionization conditions), so that high
selectivity can be achieved.     In the method of the present invention, conditions in which

                                                19
XMP and contaminants can be quantitatively distinguished may be employed by the
combination of the separation and MS detection,       Whether the selectivity is sufficient can be
evaluated by the method shown in step (al), step (a2) and step (a3).        In the present invention,
if sufficient separation is achieved in LC, it is possible to accurately determine amounts of
XMP in blood even in the case of using an MS instrument of low resolution commonly used in
pharmacokinetics.
 [0066] In the case of using a low resolution MS instrument, such as a triple quadrupole MS
instrument, amounts of XMP can be determined by MS/MS determination such as Multiple
Reaction Monitoring (MRM) mode to secure the specificity.           It is preferred to determine in a
plurality of conditions, such as detection of multiple MS/MS product ions resulting from the
object to be determined.     The condition providing a good specificity during analysis can be
chosen, and the later-described validation of the specificity can be performed.
 [0067] MS/MS determinations or MS determinations using a high resolution instrument such
as Orbitrap MS (for example, Q-Exactive, manufactured by Thermo Co., Ltd.) and TOF MS
(for example, 6550iFunnelQ-TOF, manufactured by Agilent Inc., and SYNAPT, manufactured
by Waters Corporation) are capable of performing determinations with higher specificity.
Although resolution is preferably high in the instrument, it is preferred to use an instrument
from which the sensitivity and dynamic range required for the quantitative analysis of XMP
can be obtained.
[0068] Step (al) of the present invention determines XMP in blood in two different
determining conditions by MS.      In other words, the ions derived from XMP are determined in
two different MS conditions.     As for the two different determining conditions, it is preferred
that detection ions and/or ionization conditions in MS are two different determining conditions.
Specifically, the two different determining conditions may be, for example, determinations of
multiple MS/MS product ions that occur in MS/MS determinations, determinations in different
ionization conditions (such as the temperature of an ion source (gas temperature of a turbo
heater) or the voltage of an ion introduction unit (orifice plate)), or determinations in a positive
mode and a negative mode.         For example, in the case of determining multiple MS/MS
product ions, it is possible to use a combination of a product ion of 97.0 (m/z) when 365.0
(m/z) is taken as a precursor ion and a product ion of 153.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as
a precursor ion, and a combination of a product ion of 97.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as
a precursor ion and a product ion of 213.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion.
In the case of determining amounts of XMP in whole blood, it is preferred to use a

                                                 20
combination of a product ion of 97.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (n/z) is taken as a precursor ion and a
product ion of 213.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion.             In the case of
determining amounts of XMP in hemolysis, it is preferred to use a combination of a product
ion of 97.0 (n/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion and a product ion of 153.0 (m/z)
when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion.
[0069] In each condition, in order to assess whether or not it is possible to specifically detect
XMP (for fear of detecting contaminants), the ionic strength ratio of XMP being within a
predetermined range is checked by calculating ionic strength ratios in two determining
conditions which are arbitrarily selected.        That is, step (a2) of the present invention
determines the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood in two different determining conditions
obtained in step (al), and step (a3) checks whether the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood
obtained in step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
[0070] The ionic strength ratio can be calculated, for example, by the following equation.
          Ionic strength ratio = (strength of ions under the other determining condition)/
(strength of product ion of 97.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (n/z) is taken as a precursor ion)
          Here, as the strength of ions of the other condition, for example, the strength of the
product ion of 153.0 (ml/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion or the strength of the
product ion of 213.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion may be used.
[0071] Here, in the case where the ionic strength ratio of a blood sample is within a
predetermined range, it can be determined that XMP in blood can be detected with high
specificity.   Conversely, in the case where the ionic strength ratio of a blood sample is outside
a predetermined range, it is determined that the selectivity was insufficient in either or both of
the conditions that took the ratio.    The expression "within a predetermined range" is a case
where the ionic strength ratio is less than I in the case of calculating the ionic strength ratio
according to the above-described equation.      When the intensity of ions of the other condition
is the strength of the product ion of 213.0 (m/z) when 365.0 (m/z) is taken as a precursor ion,
the ionic strength ratio is preferably 0.1 to 0.3.       In order to improve the determination
accuracy, verification may also be carried out in several combinations by changing the partner
taking the ratio, with respect to certain conditions.  For contaminants, such as GMP, that may
be detected at the time of determination of XMP, it is possible to evaluate the presence or
absence of overlap in this way.    Verification of specificity is not limited to a peak area ratio in
the chromatogram or an ionic strength ratio in the spectrum, and the verification method is not
particularly limited as long as it is a verification method capable of fully evaluating the

                                                  21
specificity.  If the specificity is sufficient in a certain determining condition, it is possible to
employ the results in such a determining condition.          In the case where the specificity is
insufficient in a certain determining condition, it may be sufficient to review the separation
and detection conditions.       For example, it has been found by the study of the present
inventors that the detection of contaminants can be suppressed by changing the MS/MS
product ions to be detected or lowering the temperature of an ion source (gas temperature of a
turbo heater) and the voltage of the ion introduction unit (orifice plate).
          Additionally, the expression "within a predetermined range" in the case of comparing
the ionic strength ratio of XMP standard and the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood is a case
where the ionic strength ratio of XMP in blood is 0.5 to 1.5 of the ionic strength ratio of XMP
standard.
 [0072] As described above, it is possible to quantify XMP from the ions detected by the MS
determination which was determined that the specificity is sufficient.
 [0073] (3) Apparatus for predicting effective dose of Compound A or salt thereof or hydrate
thereof, and apparatus for predicting sensitivity to Compound A or salt thereof or hydrate
thereof
          Further, the present invention provides an apparatus for predicting an effective dose
of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for an MDS patient, and an apparatus for
predicting whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a
salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.      The apparatus of the present invention is an apparatus
including
          (A) a means of determining (i) amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, (ii)
amounts of XMP in the blood collected from the patient after the administration of Compound
A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of XMP in the blood obtained by bringing
 Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof into contact with the blood collected from
the patient before the administration of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          (B) a means of determining a variation of XMP from the amounts of XMP obtained
by the means described in (A), and
          (C) a means of predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof or a means of predicting whether a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
 Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, from the variation of XMP obtained by the
means described in (B).

                                                  22
[0074] The means described in (A) is not particularly limited as long as it is a means that can
determine amounts of XMP in blood.           For example, an MS instrument may be used.       In
addition, an apparatus with a combination of a separator and an MS instrument may also be
used.    For example, a high-performance liquid chromatography apparatus, a capillary
electrophoresis apparatus or a gas chromatography apparatus may be used as the separator.
Preferred is an LC-MS instrument.
[0075] The MS instrument typically includes a sample introducing unit, an ion source, an
analysis unit, an ion detecting unit and a data processing unit.
         The sample introducing unit is a portion for introducing a sample into an MS
instrument.    For example, with coupling of an MS instrument to a high-perforMance liquid
chromatography apparatus, a capillary electrophoresis apparatus or a gas chromatography
apparatus, it is also possible to introduce the sample into the MS instrument from these
apparatuses.
[0076] The ion source is a portion for giving an electric charge to the sample, and the method
for giving an electric charge is known such as an electron ionization (EI) method, a chemical
ionization (CI) method, a field desorption (FD) method, a fast atom bombardment (FAB)
method, a matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) method, an atmospheric
pressure photoionization (APPI) method, an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI)
method or an electrospray ionization (ESI) method.      As the ion source used in LC-MS, APPI,
APCI or ESI may be used.        Preferred is ESI.
 [0077] The analysis unit is a portion that separates the ionized sample.      There have been
known such as a magnetic deflection type, a quadrupole type, an ion trap type, a time-of-flight
type, a Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance type, and a tandem type.
 [0078] The detecting unit is a portion which detects the ions sorted by the analysis unit after
subjecting them to sensitizing with an electron multiplier or a microchannel plate.
         The data processing unit is a portion for producing a mass spectrum from the obtained
data.
 [0079] As the means of determining a variation of XMP described in (B), it may be any means
capable   of determining      the variation from the obtained       amount of XMP and the
above-described     equation.     For example, an electronic calculator (computer) with a
calculation software or program may be used.
 [0080] The means of predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof or the means of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using

                                               23
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, from the variation of XMP obtained by the
means described in (B), each of which being described in (C), is not particularly limited as
long as it is a means that can predict the effective dose or sensitivity from the variation of
XMP based on the predetermined criteria.         For example, it can be performed by using
calculation software of the general purpose.    For example, it is possible to use an electronic
calculator (computer) having a program including a means of expressing the relationship
between the post-administration time or contact time of Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof and the variation of XMP in terms of a function therebetween, and a means of
predicting an effective dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof or the
presence or absence of sensitivity to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof from the obtained function.
[0081] (4) Treatment agent for treating MDS in which active ingredient is Compound A, and
method for treating MDS in which active ingredient is Compound A
          Further, the present invention provides a treatment agent for treating MDS in which
an active ingredient is Compound A, and a method for treating MDS in which an active
ingredient is Compound A, each of which including a step of predicting whether or not an
MDS patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof.
          The step of the present invention predicting whether or not an MDS patient is
sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof is as described
above.
          In the case where an MDS patient has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment
using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, a treatment agent for treating MDS in
which an active ingredient is Compound A is used in the treatment of the patient.
[0082] In the case where Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof is used as a
treatment agent for treating MDS, usually, pharmaceutical aids such as excipients, carriers and
diluents used in the formulation may be mixed as appropriate.              These aids may be
administered orally or parenterally according to a conventional method, in the form of such as
tablets, capsules, powders, syrups, granules, pills, suspensions, emulsions, solutions, powder
preparations, suppositories, eye drops, nasal drops, ear drops, patches agent, ointments or
injections.   Moreover, although the route, dosage and frequency of administration may be
appropriately selected depending on age, weight and condition of the patient, it is preferred to
select a dosage such that in a duration of 40% or more of the treatment period, the variation of

                                                  24
XMP (decline rate) is 45 % or more (preferably 50% or more, and more preferably 55% or
more).
 [0083] The present invention will be described in more detail with reference to the following
examples, but the present invention is not limited thereto.
           The ultrafiltration tube employed an UltrafreeMC-PLHCC 250/pk for Metabolome
Analysis (manufactured by Human Metabolome Technologies Inc.).
           The centrifugal evaporator employed a miVac Duo HV (manufactured by Genevac
Inc.).
           The PBS solution employed PBS, pH 7.4 (manufactured by Thermo Fisher Scientific
Inc.).
EXAMPLES
 [0084] Example 1 Cell growth inhibitory activity of Compound A
           A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used as a test compound.
           SKM-l (available from National Institute of Biomedical Innovation JCRB Cell Bank)
was used as a human myeloid leukemia cell line.
 [0085] 90 pL (5000 cells) of the human myeloid leukemia cell line SKM-l was seeded onto a
96-well plate.     10 ptL of a PBS solution of the test compound (0 ptmol/L, 1 tmol/L, 3 imol/L,
 10 pimol/L, 30 ptmol/L, 100 tmol/L, 300 ptmol/L, 1000 ptmol/L, 3000 ptmol/L, or 10000
pmol/L in terms of Compound A) was added to the plate which was then incubated in 5% CO 2
at 37 0 C for 72 hours.    100 pL of CellTiter-Glo (manufactured by Promega) was added to each
well to prepare a cell lysate.
           The relative value of chemiluminescence intensity was calculated by a plate reader.
 [0086] IC50 value of Compound A was 21.5 imol/L (2.73 ptg/mL in terms of Compound A).
Compound A exhibited an excellent antiproliferative activity.
 [0087]      Example      2     Drug    Concentration     Prediction   by     PK/PD     Analysis
(Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Analysis)
           (1) Antitumor Effects of Compound A
           A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used as a test compound.
           The SKM-1 cell was used as a human myeloid leukemia cell.
           5.0 x 106 human myeloid leukemia cells were subcutaneously transplanted into the
right abdomen flank of female nude mice (BALB/cAJcl-nu/nu) to fonn a subcutaneous tumor.
On day 9 post-transplantation, animals were assigned into 7 groups, each consisting of 10
mice.     Table 1 shows the composition of groups.          From day 10 post-transplantation, a

                                                  25
control solvent (0.5 w/v% methyl cellulose 400 aqueous solution, hereinafter referred to as
"0.5% MC".) or a test compound was intermittently administered orally (a total of five course
in terms of 2 days dosing + four days washout as a course of drugs), and the tumor volume on
day 39 post-transplantation was determined to evaluate the antitumor effects.                The inhibition
rate was calculated according to the following equation.
         Inhibition rate (%)     =   (1-(tumor volume on day 39 post-transplantation)/(tumor
volume of Group 1 on day 39 post-transplantation)) x 100
[0088] [Table 1]
               Number of          Dose            Dose             Dosing
 Group No.       animals     (mg/kg/day)      (mg/kg/times)      frequency
                 (Head)                                         (times/day)
      1             10             0*1               0               3
      2             10             240             240                1
      3             10             240             120               2
      4             10             240              80               3
      5             10             240              40               6
      6             10             120              20               6
      7             10             480             160               3
*1) 0.5% MC administered
[0089] Figure 1 shows the tumor volume on day 39 post-transplantation.
         Group 4, Group 5, Group 6 and Group 7 exhibited excellent antitumor effects.
[0090] (2) PK Test of Compound A
         Non-fasting female mice (BALB/cAJcl) were given a single oral administration of the
test compound (10 mg/kg, 40 mg/kg, 80 mg/kg and 160 mg/kg in terms of Compound A).
After 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 5 hours, 10 hours or 24 hours,
heparinized blood was collected and then the concentration of Compound A in plasma was
determined using LC/MS/MS to thereby calculate PK parameters            (tmax, Cmax,  t 1 /2 and AUCo- 2 4 ).
[0091] (3) PK/PD Analysis
         V1 /F, Koi, K1 o, K 12  and K2 1, pharmacokinetic parameters of the two-compartment
model, were calculated from the plasma concentration course of Compound A when
Compound A was given as a single oral administration.               These parameters were used to
predict the plasma concentration course of Compound A upon repeated administration in a
variety of dosage regimen.      In addition, since the linearity was recognized for from 10 mg/kg
up to 80 mg/kg, the parameter of 10 mg/kg dosing was used to carry out the prediction at the
time of repeated administration of 20 mg/kg, 40 mg/kg and 80 mg/kg.             The parameter of 160
mg/kg was used to carry out the prediction for 120 mg/kg and 240 mg/kg.              From the resulting

                                                 26
plasma concentration course of Compound A, Cmax (ng/mL), AUCo. 4 8 (ng-time/mL) and Time
above IC5 0 (%, IC 50 value: 21.5 gmol/L (2.73 [g/nL in terms of Compound A)) were
calculated.     PK parameters (Cmax, Time above IC50 and AUCo-48) were plotted on the X axis,
and the inhibition rate of tumor volume was plotted on the Y axis.      The results are shown in
Figs. 2, 3 and 4.
[0092] Based on the fact that the correlation coefficient between Cmax and the inhibition rate is
-0.5447, the correlation coefficient between Time above IC50 and the inhibition rate is 0.9814,
and the correlation coefficient between AUCo.48 and the inhibition rate is 0.4684, the Time
above IC50 was a parameter that most correlates with the inhibition rate.
[0093] Also, the tumor volume was statistically significantly inhibited in groups in which the
Time above IC 5 0 is 40% or more.     Therefore, it was predicted to be important that the drug
concentration in human plasma is maintained at a level of 2.73 ptg/mL or higher in terms of
Compound A, in the period of 40% or more of the treatment period.
[0094] Example 3 Quantitative Determination of XMP
          (1-1) 450 iL of blood taken from healthy individuals by heparinized blood collection,
and 50 [tL of a PBS solution were added to the tube, followed by stirring in an incubator at
37'C for 8 hours.
          (1-2) 400 [L of methanol was added to 100 [L of the sample obtained in (1-1).
After stirring with a vortex mixer, 400 pL of chloroform was added and stirred with a vortex
mixer, followed by addition of 120 pL of ultrapure water.     After stirring with a vortex mixer,
the reaction solution was centrifuged at 4'C and 10000 x g for 15 min.            400 ptL of the
aqueous phase was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube, followed by centrifugation
at 12'C and 9200 x g for 2 hours.     The filtrates were combined and then dried under reduced
pressure at 40'C for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.      After drying, the resulting
product was stored in a freezer at -80'C.
          (1-3)  The sample was dissolved in water, followed by centrifugation, and the
supernatant was recovered to serve as a determination sample.        The determination sample
and XMP standard were subjected to LC-MS/MS.               The XMP standard used was XMP
(Xanthosine-5'-monophosphate,      Sodium salt) (manufactured by Jena Bioscience).           The
configuration of an apparatus and determining conditions are shown below.
[0095] (LC-MS/MS)
          LC: UFLC (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation)
          MS: QTRAP 5500 (manufactured by AB SCIEX)

                                                 27
          (LC)
          Colunr: SeQuant ZIC-pHILIC 5 ptm, polymeric PEEK 150x2.1 mm metal-free
HPLC column (manufactured by Merck Ltd.)
          Colunm oven temperature: 40'C
          Mobile phase A: 50 mmol/L of ammonium bicarbonate (adjusted to pH 9.4 by 25
mass% aqueous ammonia solution)
          Mobile phase B: acetonitrile
          Feeding conditions: 0.3 mL/min
          The gradient cycles are shown in Table 2.    % in Table 2 indicates volume%.
[0096] [Table 2]
Time (min)         0      5.83     5.84      9.83     9.84     13.83
   Mobile
   phase A        30       65       100      100       30        30
     (%)
   Mobile
   phase B        70       35        0         0       70        70
     (%)
[0097] (MS/MS)
          Ionization: ESI positive (Electrospray ionization positive)
          Scan mode: MRM (Multiple Reaction Monitoring)
          The determining conditions are shown in Table 3.
 [0098] [Table 3]
                                                          Temperature
                                                              (gas         Voltage of ion
Determining      Determining        Precursor ion         temperature    introduction unit
    object        conditions      (m/z)/Product ion         of turbo       (orifice plate)
                                        (m/z)                heater)             (V)
                                                              (OC)
    XMP               A               365.0/97.0              600                 50
                      B              365.0/153.0
          Fig. 5 shows the determination results obtained in (1-3).
 [0099] (1-4) Analysis 1
          Multiple adjacent peaks were observed in the chromatogram of the sample.         The
peak of XMP in the sample was estimated from the peak of XMP standard to calculate an area
thereof.    In order to verify the specificity, the ratio of the peak area in the determining
condition A to the peak area in the determining condition B (B/A) was calculated.          The

                                                 28
results are shown in Table 4.
[0 100] [Table 4]
                     Precursor ion                  Peak area
Determining        (m /Pio        on           XMP            Sample
  conditions          (m/z)                  standard         (human
                                                               blood)
      A                365.0/97.0             83000             15000
      B               365.0/153.0             29200             18700
         Peak area ratio (B/A)                  0.4              1.2
[0101] The peak area ratio of the sample (B/A) was 1.2.          Since the peak area ratio of the
sample is 1 or more, it was determined that the specificity is insufficient in either or both of
the determining conditions A and B (Contaminants are detected with overlapping).
[0102] (1-5) Analysis 2
          In determining conditions C and D, XMP standard and the sample obtained in (3)
were determined.       The determining conditions C and D are shown in Table 5.               The
determination results of XMP standard and sample are shown in Fig. 6 and Table 6.
[0103] [Table 5]
                                                          Temperature
                                                               (gas        Voltage of ion
Determining Determining             Precursor ion         temperature     introduction unit
    object        conditions      (m/z)/Product ion         of turbo        (orifice plate)
                                        (m/z)                heater)              (V)
                                                              (OC)
                      C               365.0/97.0
                      D              365.0/153.0               350                 20
 [0104] [Table 6]
                                                     Peak area
                     Precursor ion
Determining                                                   Sample
                   (m/z)/Product ion           XMP
  conditions                                                  (human
                          (m/z)              standard
                                                               blood)
      C                365.0/97.0             94500             10300
      D               365.0/153.0             33000             4540
         Peak area ratio (D/C)                  0.3              0.4
 [0105] Peak area ratio of the sample (D/C) was 0.4.    From the point that the peak area ratio of
the sample is less than 1, it was determined to be good specificity.

                                                  29
          From this result, it was determined that amounts of XMP can be determined by means
of determining conditions C and D.
 [0106] (2-1) A sample was prepared in the same manner as those described in (1-1) to (1-3),
except that the determination is carried out in the determining conditions shown in Table 7.
Then, XMP of the sample was determined.
 [0107] [Table 7]
                                                           Temperature
                                                                (gas          Voltage of ion
                                     Precursor 1in
Determining Determining                                    temperature       introduction unit
                                   (m/z)/Pro duct ion
    object       conditions                                  of turbo          (orifice plate)
                                                              heater)                (V)
                                                                (0 C)
                     A'                365.0/97.0
    XMP                                                         350                   20
                     B'               365.0/213.0
[0108] Fig. 7 shows the determination results obtained in (2-1)
[0109] (2-2) Analysis
          In order to verify the specificity, the ratio of the peak area in the determining
condition A' to the peak area in the determining condition B' (B'/A') was calculated.           The
results are shown in Table 8.
[0110] [Table 8]
                                                      Peak area
                     Precursor ion
Determining                                                     Sample
                  (m/z)/Product ion             XMP
  conditions             (mz                   tnad(human
                         (m/z)                standard          bod
                                                                blood)
      A'               365.0/97.0              20000            25000
     B'               365.0/213.0               6000             5000
Peak area ratio (B'/A')                          0.3               0.2
[0111] The peak area ratio of the sample (B'/A') was 0.2.           Since the peak area ratio of the
sample is within the range of 0.1 to 0.3, it was determined to be very good specificity.
          Based on this result, it was determined that amounts of XMP can be determined by
means of determining conditions A' and B'.

                                                30
 [0112] Example 4 XMP in human myeloid leukemia cells and XMP in blood cells of healthy
human
          A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used as a test compound.
          K562 (available from Riken BioResource Center) was used as a human myeloid
leukemia cell.
          (1)
          2x1 07 human mycloid leukemia cells were suspended in a culture flask containing 18
mL of an RPMI1640 medium (manufactured by Life Technologies, Inc.).                2 mL of a PBS
 solution of the test compound (0 ptg/mL, 10 jig/mL, 100 tg/mL, or 1000 pLg/mL in terms of
 Compound A) was added to the flask which was then incubated at 37'C under 5% CO 2 for 24
hours.    After centrifugation at 20'C and 300 x g for 3 min, the supernatant was removed and
suspended in 10 mL of a PBS solution.       Then, after centrifugation at 40 C and 300 x g for 5
min, the supernatant was removed.      After stirring with addition of 1000 p1L of methanol, 500
 pL of ultrapure water was added thereto, followed by further stirring.    600 ptL of the reaction
solution was divided into each of two tubes, and 400 tL of chloroform was added to each tube.
The reaction solution was stirred and then centrifuged at 4'C and 10000 x g for 15 min.       400
  tL of the aqueous phase was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube, followed by
centrifugation at 12'C and 9200 x g for 2 hours.      The filtrates were combined and then dried
under reduced pressure at 40'C for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.        After drying,
the resulting product was stored in a freezer at -80'C.
 [0113] (2)
          450 pL of the blood collected from two healthy individuals by heparinized blood
collection (Analyte A and Analyte B) was added to each of 1.5 mL tubes, and 50 [LL of a PBS
solution of the test compound (0 [g/mL, 10 tg/mL, 30 [tg/mL, 100 pg/mL, 300 gg/mL, or
 1000 jig/mL in teams of Compound A) for each concentration was added to each tube.           The
reaction mixture was stirred in an incubator at 37'C for 8 hours.         Then, BD Pharm Lyse
(555899, manufactured by Becton, Dickinson and Company, Inc.) was added to the blood (2
mL of BD Pharm Lyse was added relative to 0.2 mL of blood).           After stirring with a vortex
mixer, the reaction solution was protected from light and allowed to stand at room temperature
for 15 min.      After centrifugation at 20'C and 1000 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was
removed and suspended in 10 mL of a PBS solution.         After centrifugation at 4'C and 1000 x
g for 5 min, the supernatant was removed, and 1000 pL of methanol was added to each tube,
followed by stirring.    Thereafter, 500 [tL of ultrapure water was added thereto, followed by

                                                31
further stirring.   600 pL of the reaction solution was divided into each of two tubes, and 400
gL of chloroforn was added to each tube.           The reaction solution was stirred and then
centrifuged at 4'C and 10000 x g for 15 min.        400 pL of the aqueous phase was recovered
and added to an ultrafiltration tube, followed by centrifugation at 12'C and 9200 x g for 2
hours.    The filtrates were combined and then dried under reduced pressure at 40'C for 2
hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.     After drying, the resulting product was stored in a
freezer at -80'C.
[0114] (3)
          The samples stored in (1) and (2) were returned to room temperature and 40 pLL of
ultrapure water was added to each sample.       The mixture was stirred and centrifuged at 4'C
and 21500 x g for 5 min.      35 pL of the supernatant was transferred to a vial.  After storage
at 4'C, XMP in samples was determined in the LC-MS/MS determination instrument, LC
conditions and MS/MS conditions described in Example 3 (3).
[0115] (4)
          Amounts of XMP (%)          were calculated assuming that the XMP value of a
non-Compound A treated group (peak area value) is defined as 100%.
          The results are shown in Table 9.
[0116] [Table 9]
Concentration                     Amount of
 of Compound                       XMP (%)
   A (tg/mL)        Analyte A      Analyte B        K562
        0              100            100             100
        1               60             51              52
        3               45             37
       10               37             25              15
       30               27             18
       100              16             10              6
 [0117] Variations of amounts of XMP in healthy person's blood cells and human myeloid
leukemia cells were comparable to each other.        It has been suggested that the variation of
amounts of XMP with respect to Compound A in blasts of the bone marrow of MDS patients
can be predicted by determining a variation thereof in blood cells of peripheral blood.
 [0118] Example 5 XMP in blood cells after hemolysis and XMP in whole blood
          A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used s a test compound.
          (1)
          450 pL of the blood collected from two healthy individuals by heparinized blood

                                                  32
collection (Analyte A and Analyte B) was added to each tube, and 50 pL of a PBS solution of
the test compound (0 pg/mL, 10 [tg/mL, 30 pig/mL, 100 pLg/mL, 300 tg/mL, or 1000 pLg/mL in
terms of Compound A) for each concentration was added to each tube.            The reaction mixture
was stirred in an incubator at 37'C for 8 hours.
[0119] (2-1)
           BD Pharm Lyse (555899, manufactured by Becton, Dickinson and Company, Inc.)
was added to the blood sample obtained in (1) (2 mL of BD Pharm Lyse was added relative to
0.2 mL of blood).     After stirring with a vortex mixer, the reaction solution was protected from
light and allowed to stand at room temperature for 15 min.        After centrifugation at 20*C and
 1000 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was removed and suspended in 10 mL of PBS.                After
centrifugation at 20'C and 1000 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was removed and suspended in
 10 mL of PBS.      After centrifugation at 4'C and 1000 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was
removed, and 1000 tL of methanol was added to each tube, followed by stirring.           Thereafter,
500 [tL of ultrapure water was added thereto, followed by further stirring.           600 pLL of the
reaction solution was divided into each of two tubes, and 400 pL of chloroform was added to
each tube.     The reaction solution was stirred and then centrifuged at 4*C and 10000 x g for
 15 min.     400 pLL of the aqueous phase was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube
(UltrafreeMC-PLHCC         250/pk    for   Metabolome     Analysis    (manufactured     by   Human
Metabolome Technologies)), followed by centrifugation at 12'C and 9200 x g for 2 hours.
The filtrates were combined and then dried under reduced pressure at 40'C for 2 hours by
using a centrifugal evaporator.     After drying, the resulting product was stored in a freezer at
-800 C.
 [0120] (2-2)
           400 ptL of methanol was added to 100 pL of the blood sample obtained in (1).        After
 stirring, 400   L of chloroform was added, followed by further stirring.        120 pL of ultrapure
water was added thereto, followed by stirring and then centrifugation at 4'C and 10000 x g for
 15 min.     400 pL of the aqueous phase was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube,
 followed by centrifugation at 12'C and 9200 x g for 2 hours.          The filtrate was dried under
reduced pressure at 40 0 C for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.          After drying, the
resulting product was stored in a freezer at -80'C.
 [0121] (3)
           The samples obtained in (2-1) and (2-2) were returned to room temperature and 40 pL
 of ultrapure water was added to each sample.       The mixture was stirred and centrifuged at 4'C

                                                  33
and 21500 x g for 5 min.        35 pL of the supernatant was transferred to a vial.  After storage
at 4'C, XMP in samples was determined in the LC-MS/MS determination instrument, LC
conditions and MS/MS conditions described in Example 3 (3).
[0122] (4)
           Amounts of XMP (%) were calculated assuming that amounts of XMP in a
non-Compound A treated group are defined as 100%.
           The results are shown in Table 10.
[0123] [Table 10]
Concentration of                                 Amount of XMP (%)
   Compound A                       Analyte A                            Analyte B
     (pg/mL)             Hemolysis          Whole blood         Hemolysis          Whole blood
         0                   100                100                100                 100
          1                  60                  57                 51                  44
         3                   45                  53                 37                  27
         10                  37                  47                 25                  15
        30                   27                  26                 18                  11
        100                   16                 15                 10                   9
[0124] The amount of XMP in blood cells after hemolysis and the amount of XMP in whole
blood were almost comparable to each other.         The amount of XMP in whole blood reflected
the amount of XMP in blood cells.
 [0125] Example 6 XMP in blood cells and XMP in bone marrow cells
           A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used as a test compound.
           (1)
           0.5% MC or 0.5% MC of the test compound (100 mg/kg in terms of Compound A)
was orally administered to female mice (BALB/cAJcl).
 [0126] (2-1)
           Whole blood was collected from the postcava of animals under anesthesia by
isoflurane inhalation at 1, 4, 8 or 24 hours post-dose, using a polypropylene syringe treated
with an ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt and a 25 gauge injection needle.          BD
Pharm Lyse (555899, manufactured by Becton, Dickinson and Company, Inc.) was added to
the blood (2 mL of BD Pharm Lyse was added relative to 0.2 mL of blood).             After stirring
with a vortex mixer, the reaction solution was protected from light and allowed to stand at
room temperature for 15 min.         After centrifugation at 20'C and 1000 x g for 5 min, the
supernatant was removed and suspended in 10 mL of a PBS solution.           After centrifugation at
4'C and 1000 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was removed, and 1000 ptL of methanol was

                                                 34
added to each tube, followed by stirring.      Thereafter, 500 pL of ultrapure water was added
thereto, followed by further stirring.   600 VtL of the reaction solution was divided into each of
two tubes, and 400 jjL of chloroform was added to each tube.            The reaction solution was
stirred and then centrifuged at 4'C and 10000 x g for 15 min.        400 pL of the aqueous phase
was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube, followed by centrifugation at 12'C and
9200 x g for 2 hours.     The filtrates were combined and then dried under reduced pressure at
40'C for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.       After drying, the resulting product was
stored in a freezer at -80'C.
[0127] (2-2)
          Right and left femurs of animals were collected under anesthesia by isoflurane
inhalation at 1, 4, 8 or 24 hours post-dose, followed by cutting bone ends and centrifuging at
4'C and 3000 rpm for 1 min to recover bone marrow cells.         The recovered bone marrow cells
were suspended in 1 mL of PBS, and the number of cells was counted.           After centrifugation
at 4'C and 1000 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was removed, and 1000           L of methanol was
added to each tube, followed by stirring.      Thereafter, 500 pL of ultrapure water was added
thereto, followed by further stirring.   600 pL of the reaction solution was divided into each of
two tubes, and 400 piL of chloroform was added to each tube.            The reaction solution was
stirred and then centrifuged at 4'C and 10000 x g for 15 min.        400 pL of the aqueous phase
was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube, followed by centrifugation at 12'C and
9200 x g for 2 hours.     The filtrates were combined and then dried under reduced pressure at
40'C for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.       After drying, the resulting product was
stored in a freezer at -80'C.
[0128] (3)
          The samples obtained in (2-1) and (2-2) were returned to room temperature, and 40
gL of ultrapure water was added to the hemolysis sample and 150 pL of ultrapure water was
added to the bone marrow sample.        The mixture was stirred and then centrifuged at 4'C and
21500 x g for 5 min.     For the hemolysis sample, 35 ptL of the supernatant was transferred to a
vial.   For the bone marrow sample, 140 pL of the supernatant was transferred to a vial.
After storage at 4'C, XMP in samples was determined in the LC-MS/MS determination
instrument, LC conditions and MS/MS conditions described in Example 3 (3).
[0129] (4)
          Amounts of XMP (%) were calculated assuming that amounts of XMP in a
non-Compound A treated group are defined as 100%.

                                                35
          The results are shown in Table 11.
[0130] [Table 11]
    Time            Amount of XMP (%)
  post-dose       Blood cell        Bone
     (hr)                       marrow cell
Non-treated           100            100
       1              3.4            8.7
       4              7.2           16.5
       8             26.4           25.9
      24              70.7          82.7
[0131] Variations of XMP in blood cells and bone marrow cells were equivalent to each other.
The variation of XMP with respect to Compound A in blood cells was suggested to reflect the
variation in bone marrow cells.
[0132] From the results of Example 4, Example 5 and Example 6, the variation of XMP in
peripheral whole blood was shown to reflect the variation of XMP in blasts of the bone
marrow of MDS patients.
[0133] Example 7 XMP in human myeloid leukemia cells
          A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used as a test compound.
          SKM-I was used as a human myeloid leukemia cell.
[0134] (1)
          2x1 07 human myeloid leukemia cells were suspended in a culture flask containing 18
mL of an RPMI1640 medium (manufactured by Life Technologies, Inc.).               2 mL of a PBS
solution of the test compound (0 tg/mL, 10 tg/mL, 30 jtg/mL, 100 tg/mL, 300 pig/mL, or
1000 pg/mL in terms of Compound A) was added to the flask which was then incubated at
37'C under 5% CO 2 for 24 hours.        After centrifugation at 20'C and 300 x g for 3 min, the
supernatant was removed and suspended in 10 mL of a PBS solution.                   10 jtL of the
suspension was aliquoted and cells were counted using TC10 (manufactured by BioRad).
After centrifugation and 300 x g for 5 min, the supernatant was removed.        After stirring with
addition of 1000 tL of methanol, 500 pL of ultrapure water was added thereto, followed by
further stirring.   600 pL of the reaction solution was divided into each of two tubes, and 400
pL of chloroform was added to each tube.            The reaction solution was stirred and then
centrifuged at 4'C and 10000 x g for 15 min.         400 pL of the aqueous phase was recovered
and added to an ultrafiltration tube, followed by centrifugation at 12'C and 9200 x g for about
2 hours.    The filtrates were pooled in one tube and then dried under reduced pressure at 40*C
for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.     After drying, the resulting product was stored

                                               36
in a freezer at -80'C.
[0135] (2)
          The samples obtained in (1) were returned to room temperature, to each of which 50
[L of 5 mmol/L ammonium formate containing 4 ng/ L of 2'-fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine
monophosphate was then added, followed by stirring. 12.5 pLL of the supernatant was
transferred to a vial, and XMP in the samples was determined in the following determining
conditions.
[0136] (LC-MS/MS)
          LC: UFLC (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation)
          MS: QTRAP3200 (manufactured by AB-Sciex Inc.)
          (LC)
          Column: SeQuant ZIC-pHILIC 5 jLm, polymeric PEEK 150x2.1 mm metal-free
HPLC column (manufactured by Merck Ltd.)
          Column oven temperature: 40'C
          Mobile phase A: 10 mmol/L of ammonium bicarbonate (adjusted to pH 9.4 by 25
mass% aqueous ammonia solution)
          Mobile phase B: acetonitrile
          Feeding conditions: 0.5 mL/min
          The gradient cycles are shown in Table 12.   % in Table 12 indicates volume%.
[0137] [Table 12]
Time (min)         0       5.83      5.84      9.83       9.84    12.00
   Mobile
  phase A         30        65        100      100         30       30
     (%)
   Mobile
  phase B         70        35         0         0         70       70
     (%)
[0138]
(MS/MS)
Ionization: ESI positive
Scan Mode: MRM
          The determining conditions are shown in Table 13.
[0139] [Table 13]
                                              Temperature (gas             Voltage of ion
  Precursor ion(m/z)/Product ion(m/z)       temperature of turbo      introduction unit (orifice
                                                 heater) ('C)                plate) (V)

                                                  37
               365.0/213.0                             500                          50
[0140] (3)
           Amounts of XMP (%) were calculated according to the following equation, assuming
that the XMP value of a non-Compound A treated group is defined as 100%.
           Amount of XMP (%) = ((peak area of XMP)/((peak area of 2'-fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine
monophosphate) x (number of cells)))/((peak area of XMP of untreated group)/((peak area of
2'-fluoro-2'-deoxycytidine monophosphate of untreated group) (number of cells of untreated
group))) x 100
           The decline rate of XMP (%) was calculated according to the following equation.
           Decline rate of XMP (%)    =  100 - amount of XMP (%)
           The results are shown in Table 14.
[0141] [Table 14]
Concentration      Amount of      Decline
of Compound        XMP (%)         rate of
  A ([ig/mL)                        XMP
         0             100            0
         1             57            43
        10             45            55
       100              17           83
[0142] An IC5 0 value in SKM-i cells of Compound A is 2.73 jig/mL (Example 1).          Therefore,
the XMP decline rate in the vicinity of the IC50 value was 43% to 55%.
[0143] From the results of Examples 2 and 7, it can be predicted that the dosage is effective
when the XMP decline rate is 45% or more in the period of 40% or more of a treatment period.
[0144] Example 8 XMP, GMP and GTP in whole blood
           A 3/4 hydrate of Compound A was used as a test compound.
           (1)
           450   iL of the blood collected from healthy individuals by heparinized blood
collection was added to each tube, and 50 tL of a PBS solution of the test compound (0 ptg/mL,
1 ltg/mL, 10 p-tg/mL, or 100 tg/mL in terms of Compound A) for each concentration was
added to each tube.      The reaction mixture was stirred in an incubator at 37'C for 8 hours.
[0145] (2)
           400 tL of methanol was added to 100 piL of the blood sample obtained in (1).       After
stirring, 400 pL of chloroform was added, followed by further stirring.        120 l1L of ultrapure
water was added thereto, followed by stirring and then centrifugation at 4'C and 10000 x g for

                                                38
15 min,      400 pL of the aqueous phase was recovered and added to an ultrafiltration tube,
followed by centrifugation at 12'C and 9200 x g for 2 hours.        The filtrate was dried under
reduced pressure at 40'C for 2 hours by using a centrifugal evaporator.          After drying, the
resulting product was stored in a freezer at -80'C.
[0146] (3)
          The samples obtained in (2) were returned to room temperature and 40 pL of
ultrapure water was added to each sample.       The mixture was stirred and centrifuged at 4'C
and 21500 x g for 5 min.     35 pL of the supernatant was transferred to a vial.      After storage
at 4'C, XMP, GMP and GTP in the samples were determined in the LC-MS/MS determination
instrument and LC conditions described in Example 3 (3), and MS/MS conditions shown in
Table 15.
[0147] [Table 15]
                                  Precursor ion        Temperature (gas          Voltage of ion
Determining      Determining
    Detenniing     dt onng      (m/z)/Product ion       temperature of          introduction unit
    object        conditions           (m/z)           turbo heater)(4C)       (orifice plate) (V)
                      A             365.0/97.0
                      B            365.0/153.0                 600                      50
    GMP               E            364.0/152.0
     GTP              F            524.0/152.0
[0148] (4)
          Amounts of XMP, GMP and GTP (%) were calculated assuming that the XMP, GMP
and GTP values of a non-Compound A treated group (peak area value) are defined as 100%.
The results are shown in Table 16.
[0149] [Table 16]
                   ofAmount
                Concetratin                                   of each
   Concentration   of                              compound in whole
     Compound A                                        blood (%)
        (pg/mL)                  XMP                      GMP                       GTP
            0                     100                      100                       100
             1                     55                      85                         89
            10                     30                       85                        86
           100                     13                      91                         79
[0150] The amount of XMP in whole blood was decreased with an increasing concentration of
Compound A.        Meanwhile, the amounts of GMP and GTP in whole blood exhibited no great
change even when the concentration of Compound A is increased.           From this result, it was
shown that the therapeutic effects of Compound A cannot be evaluated in downstream

                                             39
metabolites of XMP, such as GMP or GTP, and the therapeutic effects of Compound A can be
evaluated in XMP.
[0151] Example 9 Gradient Conditions of LC
         The sample was prepared in the same manner as those described in Examples 3(1-1)
and (1-2).    The sample was dissolved in water, followed by centrifugation, and the
supernatant was recovered to serve as a determination sample.      The determination sample
and XMP standard were subjected to LC-MS/MS.          The configuration of an apparatus and
determining conditions are given below.
[0152] (LC-MS/MS)
         LC: UFLC (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation)
         MS: QTRAP 5500 (manufactured by AB SCIEX)
         (LC)
         Column: SeQuant ZIC-pHILIC 5 [Lm, polymeric PEEK 150x2.1 mm metal-free
HPLC column (manufactured by Merck Ltd.)
         Column oven temperature: 40*C
        Mobile phase A: 50 mmol/L of ammonium bicarbonate (adjusted to pH 9.4 by 25
mass% aqueous ammonia solution)
        Mobile phase B: acetonitrile
        Feeding conditions: 0.3 mL/min
        Injection volume: 2 pL (Condition a), 5 tL (Condition b)
        The gradient cycles of Conditions a and b are shown in Tables 17 and 18.        % in
Tables 17 and 18 indicates volume%.
[0153] Condition a
[Table 17]
     Time (min)             0        5.83        5.84        9.83       9.84        13.83
Mobile phase A (%)         30         65          100        100         30          30
Mobile phase B (%)         70         35           0           0         70          70
[0154] Condition b
[Table 18]
   Time (min)          0        2.5        10          13         16      16.01       21
 Mobile phase A       20        35        35          100        100        20        20
      (%)
 Mobile phase B       80        65        65           0          0         80        80
      (%)

                                                  40
 [0155] (MS/MS)
          Ionization: ESI positive
          Scan Mode: MRM
          The determining conditions are shown in Table 19.
 [0156] [Table 19]
                                                                   Temperature      Voltage of ion
                                                                       (gas          introduction
Detennining      Determining      Precursor ion (m/z)/Product    temperature of      unit (orifice
    object        conditions                ion (m/z)             turbo heater)          plate)
                                                                       (OC)               (V)
    XMP               A                    365.0/97.0                  600                 50
                      B                   365.0/153.0
 [0157] The obtained determination results are shown in Fig. 8.
          It has been confirmed that a degree of separation between XMP and contaminants in
the sample is improved, and thereby XMP in the sample can be detected with higher
specificity in the case of using an isocratic method in XMP elution of LC condition b, as
compared with the case of using a gradient method of LC condition a.           Furthermore, in LC
condition b, it was possible to increase an injection volume of the sample to 2.5 times as that
of LC condition a.
                                      Industrial Applicability
 [0158] The prediction method of the present invention can predict an effective dose of
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for an MDS patient in a simple operation
and a short time.    Further, it is possible to predict whether or not an MDS patient is sensitive
to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof in a simple operation
and a short time.
 [0159] The determining method of the present invention can accurately determine amounts of
XMP which is present in trace amounts in blood.
 [0160] The prediction apparatus of the present invention can be used to predict an effective
dose of Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for an MDS patient in a simple
operation and a short time.      Further, it can be used for predicting whether or not an MDS
patient is sensitive to a treatment using Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof in a
simple operation and a short time.
[0161] Since the treatment agent and the treatment method of the present invention is used in
the treatment of an MDS patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment using
Compound A or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, it is possible to avoid unnecessary

                                              41
administration to the patient who exhibits no sensitivity to Compound A or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof.

                                                42
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1. A method for predicting an effective dose of 5-hydroxy-IH-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a
salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for a myelodysplastic syndrome patient, comprising:
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in blood collected
from the patient before the administration of 5-hydroxy-IH-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt
thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
collected from the patient after the administration of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide
or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
obtained by bringing the blood collected from the patient before the administration of
5-hydroxy- 1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof into contact with
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          (b) a step of determining a variation of xanthosine monophosphate from the amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (a); and
          (c) a step of predicting an effective dose of 5-hydroxy-IH-imidazole-4-carboxamide
or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained
in step (b).
2.    The method according to claim 1, wherein the blood is peripheral blood.
3.    The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the step of determining amounts of
xanthosine monophosphate is a step carried out using conditions in which contaminants and
xanthosine monophosphate in blood can be quantitatively distinguished.
4.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the step of determining
amounts of xanthosine monophosphate is a step of determining amounts of xanthosine
monophosphate by mass spectrometry.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the step of determining amounts of xanthosine
monophosphate includes
          (al) a step of determining xanthosine monophosphate in blood in two different
determining conditions by mass spectrometry,
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of xanthosine monophosphate in

                                                   43
blood in two different determining conditions obtained in step (al), and
           (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of xanthosine monophosphate
in blood obtained in step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
6.   The method according to claim 5, wherein step (al) is a step of determining xanthosine
monophosphate         in   blood    in  two     different  determining   conditions  by   liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry.
7.   The method according to claim 6, wherein the pH value of the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography is 7 to 11.
8.   The method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the salt concentration of the mobile phase
used for liquid chromatography is 5 mmol/L to 300 mmol/L.
9.   The method according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography is a mobile phase including an aqueous ammonium bicarbonate
solution.
10.   The method according to any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein the liquid chromatography is
hydrophilic interaction chromatography.
11.   The method according to any one of claims 5 to 10, wherein the two different
determining conditions are detection ions and/or ionization conditions in mass spectrometry.
12.   The method according to any one of claim 1 to 11, wherein step (c) is a step including
           (c1) a step of expressing the relationship between the post-administration time or
contact time of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof
and the variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (b) in terms of a function
therebetween, and
           (c2) a step of predicting an effective dose of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide
or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the function obtained in step (cI).
13.   The method according to claim 12, wherein step (c2) is a step including a step of

                                                44
predicting that the dose of 5-hydroxy-IH-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof at which a variation of xanthosine monophosphate is greater than or equal to a
predetermined variation in a given treatment period is an effective dose.
 14.  The method according to claim 12, wherein step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting that the dose of 5-hydroxy-IH-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof at which a variation of xanthosine monophosphate is greater than or equal to a
predetermined variation in a period longer than or equal to a specified proportion of a given
treatment period is an effective dose.
 15.  A method for predicting whether or not a myelodysplastic syndrome patient is sensitive
to a treatment using 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate
thereof, comprising:
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
collected        from        the      patient       before     the        administration    of
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood collected from the patient after the administration
of 5-hydroxy-IH-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood obtained by bringing the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof;
          (b) a step of determining a variation of xanthosine monophosphate from the amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (a); and
          (c) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide        or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (b).
 16.  The method according to claim 15, wherein the blood is peripheral blood.
 17.  The method according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the step of determining amounts of
xanthosine monophosphate is a step carried out using conditions in which contaminants and
xanthosine monophosphate in blood can be quantitatively distinguished.

                                                 45
 18.  The method according to any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the step of determining
amounts of xanthosine monophosphate is a step of determining amounts of xanthosine
monophosphate by mass spectrometry.
 19.   The method according to claim 18, wherein the step of determining amounts of
xanthosine monophosphate is a step including
          (al) a step of determining xanthosine monophosphate in blood in two different
determining conditions by mass spectrometry,
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of xanthosine monophosphate in
blood in two different determining conditions obtained in step (al), and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of xanthosine monophosphate
in blood obtained in step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
20.   The method according to claim 19, wherein step (al) is a step of determining xanthosine
monophosphate        in   blood   in   two    different  determining    conditions  by   liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry.
21.   The method according to claim 20, wherein the pH value of the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography is 7 to 11.
22.   The method according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the salt concentration of the mobile
phase used for liquid chromatography is 5 mmol/L to 300 mmol/L.
23.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography is a mobile phase including an aqueous ammonium bicarbonate
solution.
24.   The method according to any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein the liquid chromatography
is hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography.
25.   The method according to any one of claims 19 to 24, wherein the two different
determining conditions are detection ions and/or ionization conditions in mass spectrometry.

                                                46
26.    The method according to any one of claims 15 to 25, wherein step (c) is a step including
         (ci) a step of expressing the relationship between the post-administration time or
contact time of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof
and the variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (b) in terms of a function
therebetween, and
          (c2) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
function obtained in step (ci).
27.    The method according to claim 26, wherein step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting      that      a     patent      is     sensitive    to     a      treatment     using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, in the case
where the variation of xanthosine monophosphate is greater than or equal to a predetermined
variation in a given treatment period.
28.    The method according to claim 26, wherein step (c2) is a step including a step of
predicting       that     a     patent      is     sensitive    to     a      treatment     using
 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, in the case
where the variation of xanthosine monophosphate is greater than or equal to a predetermined
variation in a period longer than or equal to a specified proportion of a given treatment period.
 29.   A method for determining amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in blood, comprising:
          (al) a step of determining xanthosine monophosphate in blood in two different
 determining conditions by mass spectrometry;
          (a2) a step of determining an ionic strength ratio of xanthosine monophosphate in
 blood in two different determining conditions obtained in step (al); and
          (a3) a step of checking whether the ionic strength ratio of xanthosine monophosphate
 in blood obtained in step (a2) is within a predetermined range.
 30.   The method according to claim 29, wherein step (a1) is a step of determining xanthosine
 monophosphate in blood in two different determining conditions by liquid
 chromatography-mass spectrometry.

                                                 47
31.   The method according to claim 30, wherein the pH value of the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography is 7 to 11.
32.   The method according to claim 30 or 31, wherein the salt concentration of the mobile
phase used for liquid chromatography is 5 mnmol/L to 300 mmol/L.
33.   The method according to any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein the mobile phase used for
liquid chromatography is a mobile phase including an aqueous ammonium bicarbonate
solution.
34.   The method according to any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein the liquid chromatography
is hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography.
35.   The method according to any one of claims 29 to 34, wherein the two different
determining conditions are detection ions and/or ionization conditions in mass spectrometry.
36.   An apparatus for predicting an effective dose of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide
or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof for a myelodysplastic syndrome patient, comprising:
           (A) a means of determining (i) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
collected        from        the       patient      before       the     administration      of
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood collected from the patient after the administration
of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood obtained by bringing the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with 5-hydroxy- 1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof,
           (B) a means of determining a variation of xanthosine monophosphate from the
amounts of xanthosine monophosphate obtained by the means described in (A); and
           (C)      a     means         of     predicting      an    effective     dose      of
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide         or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained by the means described in (B).

                                              48
37.   The apparatus according to claim 36, wherein the means described in (A) is a means
using a mass spectrometry instrument.
38.   The apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the mass spectrometry instrument is a
liquid chromatography apparatus coupled to a mass spectrometry instrument.
39.    An apparatus for predicting whether or not a myelodysplastic syndrome patient is
sensitive to a treatment using 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a
hydrate thereof, comprising:
          (A) a means of determining (i) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
collected       from        the      patient      before       the       administration       of
5-hydroxy- 1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood collected from the patient after the administration
of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts
of      xanthosine     monophosphate       in    the     blood     obtained     by      bringing
5-hydroxy- 1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof into contact with
the     blood     collected     from   the    patient     before    the    administration     of
5-hydroxy- 1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          (B) a means of determining a variation of xanthosine monophosphate from the
amounts of xanthosine monophosphate obtained by the means described in (A); and
          (C) a means of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained by the means described in (B),
40.    The apparatus according to claim 39, wherein the means described in (A) is a means
using a mass spectrometry instrument.
41.    The apparatus according to claim 40, wherein the mass spectrometry instrument is a
liquid chromatography apparatus coupled to a mass spectrometry instrument.
42.   A treatment agent for treating a myelodysplastic syndrome patient, comprising a step of
predicting whether or not the myelodysplastic syndrome patient is sensitive to a treatment

                                                  49
using 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          wherein an active ingredient is 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide,
          wherein the predicting step is a step including
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
collected         from       the      patient        before      the     administration        of
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxanide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood collected from the patient after the administration
of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood obtained by bringing the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof into contact with 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof,
          (b) a step of determining a variation of xanthosine monophosphate from the amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (a), and
          (c) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide         or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (b), and
          wherein the patient is a patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment
using 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.
43.    A method for treating myelodysplastic syndrome for use in the treatment of a
myelodysplastic syndrome patient, comprising a step of predicting whether or not a
myelodysplastic        syndrome     patient      is    sensitive   to  a    treatment      using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof,
          wherein an active ingredient is 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide,
          wherein the predicting step is a step including
          (a) a step of determining (i) amounts of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood
collected        from        the      patient        before      the     administration       of
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, and (ii) amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood collected from the patient after the administration
of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof, or amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate in the blood obtained by bringing the blood collected from the
patient before the administration of 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof

                                               50
or a hydrate thereof into contact with 5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof
or a hydrate thereof,
         (b) a step of determining a variation of xanthosine monophosphate from the amounts
of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (a), and
         (c) a step of predicting whether or not a patient is sensitive to a treatment using
5-hydroxy-1H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof from the
variation of xanthosine monophosphate obtained in step (b), and
         wherein the patient is a patient who has been predicted to be sensitive to a treatment
using 5-hydroxy- I H-imidazole-4-carboxamide or a salt thereof or a hydrate thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
