ABSTRACT
A valve cap (10) comprising a unitary body (18), and a sealing ring (19) nested within
the body (18), the body comprising a round tubular wall portion (20) defining a central
passage (15) with an opening at the bottom end of the body and a roof portion (21)
which closes off the passage (15) at the top end of the body (18), the sealing ring (19)
internally contacting the roof portion (21) thereabove, the body (18) having an external
portion or surface (27) for gripping, internally the body (18) having a threaded section
(23) comprising a spiraling internal thread (25) and threadless section (24) beneath the
threaded section (23) comprising a smooth inner surface (26) extending down from the
threaded section (23) to the base of the body (18), the internal thread (25) being of
standard dimension 5/16 UNEF and having a pitch of around 0.794 mm, the thread (25)
winding internally between one and four revolutions, the distance, 'd', between the
bottom of the internal thread (25) and the bottom of the seal (19) being between 0.5 and
3.0 mm, the arrangement being such that the cap (10) is screwable onto a valve (11) in
between one and three full rotations before it is halted by abutment with the sealing ring
(19), resulting in a sealed engagement.

   00    CIA
             krIn
      00
at

                                             1
     IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO CAPS OR PRODUCTS WITH CAPS
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to caps, or valves or other products having caps.
In a particular aspect, the present invention relates to caps for Schrader valves, such as
those used in pneumatic tyres.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
[0003] Schrader valves are widely used in pneumatic tyres, such as automobile tyres,
motorcycle tyres, and bicycle tyres.      Removable caps are screwed on to Schrader
valves in order to prevent dirt and liquids entering the valve stem, causing jamming of
the valve or damage to the seal resulting in leakage. However, caps presently in use
require a user to turn the cap many times in a clockwise direction to screw on the cap,
and many times in an anti-clockwise direction to screw off the cap. In motor racing,
where every millisecond counts, the difference in time it takes for teams to remove and
replace caps during pit stops could mean the difference between winning and losing.
Thus, any improvements in efficiency here could provide significant commercial
advantage. Moreover, in general automobile usage, aside from being an annoying case
of inefficiency particularly for mechanics, the many-turn prior art caps can also be
problematic for some disabled users, such as those with impaired finger dexterity, or
those with difficulty reaching or bending down to tyre level for extended periods.
[0004] Thus, it may be advantageous to provide a new device which reduces, limits,
overcomes, or ameliorates some of the problems, drawbacks, or disadvantages
associated with prior art devices, or provides an effective alternative to such devices.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0005] In one aspect, the invention provides a cap for a valve, comprising:

                                             2
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a passage with a bottom opening,
the inner wall comprising,
               an accessible thread section, the accessible thread section having a
       winding accessible internal thread for reciprocal engagement with an external
       thread of the valve, and
               a threadless section beneath the accessible thread section;
wherein the accessible internal thread winds between a quarter of a revolution and five
revolutions around the internal wall of the body.
[0006] The number of accessible internal thread revolutions may correspond with the
number of full turns of the cap required to screw the cap fully on to, or off of, the valve.
[0007] In another aspect, the invention provides a cap for a valve, comprising:
       a stopper configured to eventually halt screwing of the cap on to the valve; and,
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a passage with a bottom opening,
the inner wall comprising,
               an accessible thread section beneath the stopper, the accessible thread
       section having a winding accessible internal thread for reciprocal engagement
       with an external thread of the valve, and
               a threadless section beneath the accessible thread section;
wherein the accessible internal thread winds between a quarter of a revolution and four
revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the stopper.
[0008] In another aspect, the invention provides a cap for a valve, comprising:
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a passage with a bottom opening,
the inner wall comprising,
               an exposed thread section having a winding exposed internal thread for
       reciprocal engagement with an external thread of the valve, and
               a threadless section beneath the exposed thread section; and,

                                              3
       a stopper disposed above the exposed thread section, the stopper being
configured to eventually halt screwing of the cap on to the valve;
wherein the exposed internal thread winds between a quarter of a revolution and four
revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the stopper.
[0009] The defined cap arrangement, having an exposed and/or accessible internal
thread extending beneath the stopper, is to be taken to include the configuration of the
stopper as it is halting further screwing of the cap on to the valve. Thus, where part of
the stopper is shortened under compression during end-stage screwing of the cap on to
the valve, the exposed and/or accessible length of the internal thread beneath the
stopper (and thus the height of the accessible and/or exposed thread section) may be
increased, and this increased length of the exposed and/or accessible internal thread is
to be accounted for when assessing whether the internal thread winds between a
quarter of a revolution and four revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath
the stopper.
[0010] The number of accessible or exposed internal thread revolutions may correspond
with the number of full turns of the cap required to screw the cap on to the valve before
being halted by the stopper. Likewise, the number of accessible or exposed internal
thread revolutions may correspond with the number of full turns of the cap required to
unscrew the cap from the valve, the cap starting from a position of halting engagement
with the stopper.
[0011]The number of accessible or exposed internal thread revolutions plus one may
be around the number of full turns of the cap required to screw the cap on to the valve
before being halted by the stopper.      Likewise, the number of accessible or exposed
internal thread revolutions plus one may be around the number of full turns of the cap
required to unscrew the cap from the valve, the cap starting from a position of halting
engagement with the stopper.
[0012] In a more particular form, the thread winds between one and a quarter
revolutions and four revolutions around the internal wall of the body.
[0013] In another particular form, the exposed internal thread winds between a half and
three and a half revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the stopper. In

                                               4
an even more particular form, the exposed internal thread winds between one and three
revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the stopper.
[0014] In one form, the height of the unthreaded section is at least twice the height of
the exposed thread section.
[0015] In a particular form, the stopper comprises a seal, and screwing of the cap on to
the valve until it is halted by the seal results in a sealed engagement between cap and
valve.
[0016] In an alternative form, there is a pair of parallel discontinuous threads, the lower
one of which winds between a quarter of a revolution and one revolution around the
internal wall of the body.
[0017] In another alternative form, the internal thread winds between a quarter of a
revolution and one revolution around the internal wall of the body, while the stopper is
positioned adjacent to and above the thread, the arrangement being such that the
external thread of the valve can pass in a recess between the internal thread of the cap
and the stopper.
[0018] In another aspect, the invention provides a cap for a valve with an external
thread, comprising:
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a central passage with a bottom
opening, the inner wall comprising,
               a threaded section having a winding internal thread, at least a lower part
       of the threaded section forming an exposed thread section wherein the internal
       thread forms an exposed thread portion for reciprocal engagement with the
       external thread of the valve, and
               a threadless section beneath the threaded section; and,
       a stopper disposed above the exposed thread portion, the stopper being
configured to eventually halt screwing of the cap on to the valve;
wherein the exposed thread portion winds between a quarter of a revolution and four
revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the stopper.

                                              5
[0019] The defined cap arrangement, having an exposed portion of the threaded section
extending beneath the stopper, is to be taken to include the state of the stopper, as it is
configured or shaped or compressed, when halting further screwing of the cap on to the
valve. Thus, the exposed portion of the internal thread may wind between a quarter and
four revolutions, beneath the stopper in its configuration while halting further screwing of
the cap on to the valve. This accounts for the use of soft or flexible stoppers which first
become compressed before halting further screwing of the cap on to the valve.
[0020] In a particular form, the internal thread of the exposed portion of the threaded
section winds around between a half and three and a half revolutions beneath the
stopper. In a more particular form, the internal thread of the exposed portion of the
threaded section winds around between one and three revolutions beneath the stopper.
[0021] The height of the unthreaded section may be at least twice the height of the
exposed threaded section.
[0022] The stopper may comprise a seal. Screwing of the cap on to the valve until it is
halted by the seal may result in a sealing engagement between cap and valve.
[0023] In another aspect, the invention provides a cap for a valve, comprising:
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a central passage, the inner wall
having a threaded section comprising an internal thread and a threadless section
beneath the threaded section; and,
       a stopper adapted to halt screwing of the cap on to the valve;
       wherein at least part of the threaded section extends beneath the stopper, such
that the internal thread winds between one quarter of a revolution and five revolutions
beneath the stopper.
[0024] The defined cap arrangement, having at least part of the threaded section and
internal thread extending beneath the stopper, is to be taken to include the state of the
stopper as it is configured or shaped or compressed when halting further screwing of
the cap on to the valve. Thus, the internal thread of the stopper may wind between zero
and five revolutions beneath the stopper in its compressed state when halting further
screwing of the cap on to the valve.

                                              6
[0025] In a particular form, the internal thread winds between one and four revolutions
beneath the stopper. In a more particular form, the internal thread winds between two
and three revolutions beneath the stopper. In another particular form, the internal thread
winds around two and a half revolutions beneath the stopper. In other forms, the internal
thread may wind a number of revolutions beneath the stopper of between: half and one,
one and one and a half, one and a half and two, two and two and a half, two and a half
and three, three and three and a half, three and a half and four, four and four and a half,
or four and a half and five. These different thread ranges are taken to include the state
of the stopper as it is configured or shaped or compressed when halting further
screwing of the cap on to the valve.
[0026] The internal thread may have a pitch of between 0.5 and 1.1 mm. In a particular
form, the thread pitch is between 0.6 and 1.0 mm. In a more particular form, the thread
pitch is between 0.7 and 0.9 mm. The thread pitch may be around 0.8 mm.
[0027] The distance between the bottom of the internal thread and the bottom of the
stopper may be between 0.25 and 5.00 mm, or between 0.5 and 4.5mm, or between 1.0
and 4.0 mm, or between 1.5 and 3.5 mm, or between 2.0 and 3.0 mm, or around 2.5
mm, or between 0.25 and 0.50 mm, or between 0.50 and 0.75 mm, or between 0.75mm
and 1.0mm, or between 0.5mm and 1.0mm, or between 1.0 and 1.25 mm, or between
1.0 and 1.25 mm or between 1.0 and 1.5 mm, or between 1.5 and 2.0 mm, or between
2.0 and 2.5 mm, or between 2.5 and 3.0 mm, or between 3.0 and 3.5 mm, or between
3.5 and 4.0mm, or between 4.0 and 4.5mm, or between 4.5mm and 5.0mm, or other
ranges falling within the largest range defined.
[0028] The thread and stopper arrangement may be such that the cap is screwable onto
the valve in between a half and four rotations before it is halted by abutment with the
stopper, resulting in a sealing engagement. In more particular forms, the cap may be
screwable onto the valve before abutment with the stopper in: between one and three
and a half rotations, or between one and a half and three rotations, or between one and
a half and two and a half rotations, or around two rotations, or around one and a half
rotations, or around two and a half rotations, or between a half and one rotation, or
between one and one and a half rotations, or between one and a half and two rotations,
or between two and two and a half rotations, or between two and a half and three

                                               7
rotations, or between three and three and a half rotations, or between three and a half
and four rotations, or other ranges falling within the largest range defined.
[0029] On screwing of the cap onto the valve, the cap may translate a distance in the
direction of the valve. The translation distance may be calculated by multiplying the
thread pitch by the amount of turns. This translation distance may be between 0.2mm
and 3.0mm, or between 0.3 and 0.4mm, or between 0.4 and 0.5mm, or between 0.5
and 0.6mm or between 0.6 and 0.8mm or between 0.8 and 1.0 mm or between 1.0 and
1.2 mm, or between 1.2 and 1.4 mm, or between 1.4 and 1.6 mm, or between 1.6 and
1.8 mmm, or between 1.8 mm and 2.0mm, or between 2.0 and 2.5 mm, or between 2.5
and 3 mm, or between 0.4 and 2.0 mm, or between 0.6 and 1.5 mm or between 0.8 mm
and 1.2 mm, or other ranges falling within the largest range here defined.
[0030] In a very particular form, the internal thread may be of dimension standard 5/16
UNEF. This particular thread dimension corresponds with typical Schrader valves.
[0031] In a particular form, the internal thread is a single continuous thread.
[0032] The height of the unthreaded section may be at least twice the height of the
portion of threaded section exposed beneath the stopper. The height of the unthreaded
section may be similar to the height of the portion of threaded section exposed beneath
the stopper. In a particular form, the height of the unthreaded section is between one
and a half and ten times the height of the portion of threaded section exposed beneath
the stopper, or between one and a half and eight times, or between one and a half and
six times, or between one and a half and four times, or between two and nine times, or
between three and eight times, or between four and seven times, or any other range
falling within the largest defined range. The height of the unthreaded section may be
around 6 mm, or between 5 and 7 mm, or between 4 and 8 mm, or between 3 and 9mm
or between 2 and 10 mm.
[0033] The unthreaded section may comprise a smooth inner wall of the body.
[0034] Screwing of the cap on to the valve until halted by the stopper may result in a
sealing engagement between the cap and the valve.
[0035] The stopper may be disposed on and/or in the body, or integrally formed
therewith. In a particular form the stopper is mounted within the body.

                                              8
[0036] The stopper may comprise a seal. The seal may comprise a sealing ring.
[0037] The stopper may be around 2 mm tall, or around 1.5 to 2.5 mm tall, or around 1
to 3 mm tall or between 0.5 and 3.5 mm tall, or between 0.25 and 5.0 mm tall. The
defined stopper height is to be taken to include the state of the stopper as it is
configured or shaped or compressed when halting further screwing of the cap on to the
valve.
[0038] The rounded inner wall may be around 8 mm in diameter, or between 7 and 9
mm in diameter, or between 6 and 10 mm in diameter, or between 5 and 11 mm in
diameter.
[0039] The cap may comprise an external gripping portion.           The external gripping
portion may be disposed on or integrally formed with the body. The gripping portion may
comprise a section of the external surface of the body, or the entire external surface of
the body. In a particular form, the gripping portion comprises grooves in or ridges on
the external surface of the body. The grooves or ridges may form a lattice structure.
[0040] In another aspect, the invention provides a tyre including the cap.
[0041] In another aspect, the invention provides a vehicle having at least one tyre
including the cap.
[0042] In another aspect, the invention provides a cap for a valve, comprising:
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a central passage, the inner wall
having a threaded section comprising an internal thread and a threadless section
beneath the threaded section; and,
       a stopper disposed on and/or in the body or integrally formed therewith, the
stopper being adapted to halt screwing of the cap on to the valve;
       wherein at least part of the internal thread winds between zero and five
revolutions beneath the stopper as it is configured or shaped or compressed when
halting further screwing of the cap on to the valve.
[0043] In another aspect, the invention provides a valve assembly comprising a valve
cap and a valve on to which the valve cap is screwably mountable, the valve comprising

                                              9
a stem and a poppet valve core housed within the stem, the stem defining a winding
external thread on to and off of which the valve cap can be screwed, and the valve cap
comprising a unitary body, and a sealing ring nested within the body, the body
comprising a round tubular wall portion defining a central passage with an opening at
the bottom end of the body and a roof portion which closes off the passage at the top
end of the body, the sealing ring internally contacting the roof portion thereabove, the
body having an external portion or surface for gripping, internally the body having a
threaded section comprising a spiraling internal thread and threadless section beneath
the threaded section comprising a smooth inner surface extending down from the
threaded section to the base of the body, the internal thread being of standard
dimension 5/16 UNEF and having a pitch of around 0.794 mm, the thread winding
internally between one and four revolutions, the distance between the bottom of the
internal thread and the bottom of the seal being between 0.5 and 3.0 mm, the
arrangement being such that the cap is screwable onto the valve in between one and
three full rotations before it is halted by abutment with the seal, resulting in a sealing
engagement.
[0044] In another aspect, the present invention provides a tyre including the valve
assembly.
[0045] In another aspect, the present invention provides a vehicle having at least one
tyre including the valve assembly.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0046] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is included
solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention.          It should not be
understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
        Figure 1 is a perspective view of an automobile tyre with a Schrader valve and
first cap version in accordance with the invention;

                                               10
        Figure 2 is an exploded view of a valve assembly including the first cap, the first
cap having a much shorter internal thread, and a much shorter exposed portion of the
internal thread, than typical valve caps;
        Figure 3 is an exploded view of the valve assembly including the first cap;
        Figure 4 is a top perspective view of the first cap;
        Figure 5 is a bottom perspective view of the first cap;
        Figure 6 is an elevational view of the first cap;
        Figure 7 is a bottom view of the first cap;
        Figure 8 is a vertical sectional view of the first cap;
        Figure 9 is a vertical sectional view of the valve assembly with the first cap
placed on top of but not screwed on to valve;
        Figure 10 is a vertical sectional view of the valve assembly with the first cap
screwed on to the valve;
        Figure 11 is a bottom perspective view of a second cap version in accordance
with the invention, the second cap having a slightly shorter internal thread than the first
cap;
        Figure 12 is a vertical sectional view of the second cap;
        Figure 13 is a bottom perspective view of a third cap version in accordance with
the invention, the third cap having a slightly longer internal thread than the first cap but
still much shorter than a typical valve cap;
        Figure 14 is a vertical sectional view of the third cap;
        Figure 15 is an elevational view of a fourth cap version in accordance with the
invention, the fourth cap having a domed head;
        Figure 16 is a vertical sectional view of the fourth cap;

                                              11
        Figure 17 is a top perspective view of a fifth cap version in accordance with the
invention, the fifth cap version having a scalloped gripping surface;
        Figure 18 is a vertical sectional view of the fifth cap;
        Figure 19 is a bottom perspective view of a sixth cap in accordance with the
invention, the sixth cap version having a large hexagonal head;
        Figure 20 is a vertical sectional view of the sixth cap;
        Figure 21 is a top perspective view of a seventh cap version in accordance with
the invention, the seventh cap having a small hexagonal head;
        Figure 22 is a vertical sectional view of the seventh cap;
        Figure 23 is a top perspective view of an eighth cap version in accordance with
the invention; the eighth cap having a shortened gripping surface in comparison to the
first cap;
        Figure 24 is a vertical sectional view of the eighth cap;
        Figure 25 is a bottom perspective view of a ninth cap version in accordance with
the invention, the ninth cap having a full length circumferential external gripping surface;
and
        Figure 26 is a vertical sectional view of the ninth cap.
[0047] In the drawings like structures are referred to by like numerals throughout the
several views. The drawings shown are not necessarily to scale, with emphasis instead
generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0048] Referring to Figure 1, there is shown a first example embodiment of a valve cap,
generally designated 1Ca. In Figure 1, the valve cap 1Ca is shown screwably mounted
onto a Schrader valve 11 of a pneumatic automobile tyre 12. The combination of the
valve cap 10 and Schrader valve 11 forms a Schrader valve assembly 36.
[0049] The valve cap 1Ca is a product in its own right that can be sold separately to the
Schrader valve, although it can also be considered a part or component of a Schrader

                                              12
valve assembly 36 or other type of valve assembly to which it is suited, meaning that
the Schrader valve assembly 36 or other type of suitable valve assembly can be sold as
a single product which includes the cap 10a as a component. In the same vain, the
pneumatic automobile tyre 12 or other suitable tyre may be sold as a single product
which includes the cap 10a and Schrader valve 11 as components, and similarly an
automobile or other vehicle may be sold as a single product which includes the tyre 12,
Schrader valve 11, and cap 1Ca as components.          Further, it is envisaged that other
valve caps (some examples of which are discussed later) falling within the scope of the
invention may be produced, and these may be applied to the type of Schrader valve 11
shown, or other types of Schrader valves (not shown), or other types of valves more
generally (not shown).
[0050] Referring now to Figures 2 and 3, the Schrader valve 11 comprises a stem 13
and a poppet valve core (not shown), as is well known in the art, housed within the stem
13. A lower portion of the stem has a bulbous base 14, while an upper portion of the
stem has a cylindrical head 16 that defines a winding external thread 17, on to and off of
which the valve cap 10a can be screwed. Between successive winds of the thread is
defined a thread recess 32.
[0051] Referring particularly now to Figures 4 to 7, the cap 10a comprises a unitary
metallic body 18 and a rubber sealing ring 19 nested within the body 18. The body 18
comprises a round tubular wall portion 20 which is around eleven mm tall externally in
the embodiment shown and defines a central passage 15. The passage 15 is closed off
at the top end of the body 18 by a circular top portion 21, or 'roof portion' 21, which is
around one mm deep and nine mm in external diameter in the embodiment shown, and
spans the top circumference of the wall portion 20. The sealing ring 19 contacts an
internal surface of the roof portion 21 thereabove.
[0052] The body 18 is open at its bottom end, thus defining the entry of or to the
passage 15 at the level of and spanning a bottom circumference of the wall portion 20.
An external gripping surface 27 formed of a circumferential hexagonal lattice grid is
present on an upper region of the body 18.
[0053] Referring in particular now to Figure 8, the wall portion 20 is divisible into first,
second, and third, sections, 22, 23 and 24 respectively, based on internal features. The
first section 22, or 'seal section' 22, is about two mm tall at the topmost section of the

                                             13
wall portion 20, and comprises a smooth internal wall 26 for nesting within and
thereagainst by the outer circumference of the rubber sealing ring 19. The second
section 23, or 'threaded section' 23, is about two mm tall, located immediately beneath
the first section, and comprises a continuous spiraling internal thread 25 on its inner
surface spanning the height of the second section 23. As the rubber sealing ring is
around three mm in height in this embodiment, it protrudes down from the first section
into the second section, where its perimeter is squashed against an upper portion of the
internal thread 25. In other embodiments it is envisaged that shorter (or taller) sealing
rings may be used, protruding less if at all (or more) into the second section. The
second section has an accessible exposed subsection 39 which comprises the portion
of internal thread 25 that is both located beneath the seal 19 and is accessibly exposed
for reciprocal engagement with the external thread of the valve. The portion of the
internal thread in subsection 39, which is both positioned beneath the seal and
accessibly exposed for reciprocal articulation, is an accessible exposed thread portion
40. Due to flexibility and/or compressibility of some stoppers, the height of subsection
39 and the length of the exposed thread portion 40 may increase with stopper
compression as the cap is screwed on to the valve. The third section 24, or 'smooth
section' 24, is the lowermost section, beneath the second section. The third section 24
is around five mm tall, and comprises a thread-less, smooth inner wall surface 26.
[0054] The tubular side wall portion 20 of the valve body 18 can also be divided into
three sections based on its external features - a bottom section 33, middle section 34,
and top section 35. The bottom section 33 is around three and a half millimetres tall in
the example shown, has an external diameter of around nine mm, and wall thickness of
around one mm.      Stepped in around 0.4 mm from the bottom section in the example
shown is the middle section 34, having a wall thickness of around 0.6 mm, and being
around two and a half mm tall. The top section 35 steps back out around 0.4 mm from
the middle section 34, is around 5 mm tall in the example shown, and has a wall
thickness of around one mm (plus the internal projection distance of threads 25 where
present). The top section 35 comprises the lattice grid gripping surface 27. The internal
thread 25 winds around the internal surface of the exemplary cap 10 around three times
in the embodiment shown. Defined between the winds of the thread 25 is a thread
recess 31.

                                             14
[0055] In the embodiment shown, the cap thread 25 dimensions are 5/16 UNEF, which
dimensions match the thread 17 used on standard Schrader type valve systems
throughout the world. The pitch of the thread 25 is 0.794 mm. For each full revolution of
the cap on the valve thread, the cap moves the distance of the pitch, i.e. 0.794mm.
Under seal compression, the exposed portion of thread 40 winds internally around in the
cap 10a about 2.5 times or revolutions beneath the seal. In cap 10a, the distance, 'd',
between the bottom of the cap thread 25 and the bottom of the rubber seal 19 is around
one mm. Due to flexibility and/or compressibility of some stoppers, the distance 'd' may
increase with stopper compression as the cap is screwed on to the valve. When the cap
10a is screwed in a clockwise fashion, it translates down the valve an amount of mm
calculated by the multiplying the thread pitch by the amount of turns. In this instance,
the cap can be screwed down onto the valve around 1.191 mm before being prevented
from further downward travel by abutment against, and a degree of squashing of, the
rubber seal 19. In embodiment 10a, it takes around one and a half turns of the cap to
reach this screwed on and sealed configuration.
[0056] In Figure 9, there is shown a Schrader valve assembly, generally designated 36,
comprising the cap 1Ca and the Schrader valve 11 on to the head 16 of which the cap
has been placed but not screwably fastened. The internally unthreaded third section 24
of the cap 10a acts as a guide, facilitating the placement of the cap, and alignment of
the corresponding threads of the cap and valve, 25 and 17 respectively, for subsequent
screwing engagement. As the cap 1Ca is screwed on to the valve 11, the external
thread 17 of the valve 11 moves into and along the thread recess of the cap 31, and the
internal thread 25 of the cap 1Ca moves into and along the thread recess 32 of the valve
11. In this embodiment, it takes around one and a half clockwise screw rotations of the
cap for the cap to be fully screwed on to the valve with a tight seal created between the
sealing ring 19 of the cap 1Ca and the cylindrical head 16 of the valve 11.
[0057] Figure 10 shows the cap 1Ca fully screwed on to the valve 11, with all or nearly
all of the internal thread 25 of the cap 1Ca being correspondingly engaged with an upper
portion of the thread recess 32 of the valve 11, an upper portion of the external thread
17 of the valve 11 being correspondingly engaged with all or nearly all of the thread
recess 31 of the cap 10a, and the top of the thread 25 being sealingly engaged against
the rubber seal 19. Said another way, the thread 25 (or, more specifically, the exposed

                                              15
thread portion 40) of the cap 10a is correspondingly engaged, interlocked, or
interdigitated, with the thread 17 of the valve 11.
[0058] Referring now to Figures 11 and 12, there is shown a second example
embodiment of a valve cap, generally designated 1Ob. The cap 1Ob differs from cap 1Ca
in that its thread 25, including its exposed thread portion 40, is shorter. This means that
the second section 23, including its exposed subsection 39, is shorter, and the distance,
 d', between the initiation of the thread 25 at the bottom of the second section and the
rubber seal 19 is reduced. Specifically, in cap 1Ob, the exposed thread portion 40 winds
internally to complete around one and a quarter revolutions, making the second section
23, or 'threaded section' 23, around one mm tall. This configuration leaves a distance,
'd', and subsection 39 height, of around half of a mm between lower commencement of
the thread 25 and the rubber seal 19. Following placement of the cap on to the head 16
of the valve 11, screwing of the cap 10b on to the valve results in a downward
translation of around 0.487 mm before it is halted by abutment with the rubber seal 19,
resulting in a sealing engagement. In order to achieve sealing engagement, around a
quarter of a turn or rotation of the cap 1Ob on the valve is required.
[0059] Referring now to Figures 13 and 14, there is shown a third example embodiment
of a valve cap, generally designated 10c. The cap 10c differs from cap 10a in that its
thread 25, including its exposed thread portion 40, is longer. This means that the
second section 23, including its exposed subsection 39, is taller, and the distance, 'd',
between the commencement of the thread 25 at the bottom of the second section and
the rubber seal 19 is increased. Specifically, in cap 10c, the thread 23 winds internally
to complete around three and three quarter revolutions, making the second section 23,
or 'threaded section' 23, around three mm tall. This configuration leaves a distance, 'd',
and subsection 39 height, of around two and a half mm between lower commencement
of the thread 25 and the rubber seal 19. Following placement of the cap on to the head
16 of the valve 11, screwing of the cap 1Cc on to the valve results in a downward
translation of around 1.985 mm before it is halted by abutment with the rubber seal 19,
resulting in a sealing engagement. In order to achieve sealing engagement, around two
and a half turns or rotations of the cap 1Cc on the valve are required.
[0060] Referring now to Figures 15 and 16, there is shown a fourth example
embodiment of a valve cap, generally designated 10d. The cap 10d differs from cap

                                               16
10a in that its roof portion 21 is domed. Additionally, the rubber seal 19 is shorter,
reaching but not protruding into the second or threaded section 23 of the cap 10d. Thus,
'd', the exposed portion of the thread 40, and the exposed subsection 39 are increased,
meaning a little more turning of the cap 10d is required for sealing engagement with the
valve in this instance.
[0061] Referring now to Figures 17 and 18, there is shown a fifth example embodiment
of a valve cap, generally designated 10e. The cap 10e differs from cap 10a in that its
gripping portion or surface 27 is scalloped rather than of lattice formation.
[0062] Referring now to Figures 19 and 20, there is shown a sixth example embodiment
of a valve cap, generally designated 1Cf. The cap 1Cf differs from cap 1Ca in that it its
top external section 35 steps out from the middle external section 34 to form a large
hexagonal head 37 suitable for grasping by hand or tool.
[0063] Referring now to Figures 21 and 22, there is shown a seventh example
embodiment of a valve cap, generally designated 10g.           The cap lg   differs from cap
10a in that it has a small hexagonal head 38 resting atop the top external section 35 of
the cap body 18, the small hexagonal head 38 being suitable for grasping by hand or
tool.
[0064] Referring now to Figures 23 and 24, there is shown an eighth example
embodiment of a valve cap, generally designated 10h. The cap 10h differs from cap
1Ca in that its lattice gripping surface or portion 27 is shortened, meaning that the height
of the top external section 35 is reduced and the middle indented section 34 is
proportionately lengthened.
[0065] Referring now to Figures 25 and 26, there is shown a ninth example embodiment
of a valve cap, generally designated 10i. The cap 10i differs from cap 10a in that its
lattice gripping surface or portion 27 is lengthened to span the entire height of the cap
10i.
[0066] Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to the skilled addressee
are considered to fall within the scope of the present invention. The present invention is
not to be limited in scope by any of the specific embodiments described herein. These
embodiments are intended for the purpose of exemplification only.                Functionally

                                              17
equivalent products, formulations and methods are clearly within the scope of the
invention as described herein.
[0067] Reference to positional descriptions, such as lower and upper, are to be taken in
context of the embodiments depicted in the figures, and are not to be taken as limiting
the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but rather as would be understood
by the skilled addressee.
[0068] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein, the singular forms
"a", "an" and "the" may be intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms "comprise", "comprises," "comprising,"
"including," and "having," or variations thereof are inclusive and therefore specify the
presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components,
but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers,
steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
[0069] Although the terms first, second, third, etc. may be used herein to describe
various elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections, these elements,
components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be limited by these terms.
These terms may be only used to distinguish one element, component, region, layer or
section from another region, layer or section. Terms such as "first," "second," and other
numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly
indicated by the context.     Thus, a first element, component, region, layer or section
discussed below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer or
section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.
[0070] Spatially relative terms, such as "inner," "outer," "beneath", "below", "lower",
"above", "upper" and the like, may be used herein for ease of description to describe
one element or feature's relationship to another element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in
the figures.     Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different
orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in
the figures. For example, if the device in the figures is turned over, elements described
as "below" or "beneath" other elements or features would then be oriented "above" the
other elements or features. Thus, the example term "below" can encompass both an
orientation of above and below.       The device may be otherwise oriented (rotated 90

                                        18
degrees or at other orientations) and the spatially relative descriptors used herein
interpreted accordingly.

                                             19
CLAIMS
1. A cap for a valve, comprising:
       a stopper configured to eventually halt screwing of the cap on to the valve; and,
       a body having a rounded inner wall defining a passage with a bottom opening,
the inner wall comprising,
               an accessible thread section beneath the stopper, the accessible thread
       section having a winding accessible internal thread for reciprocal engagement
       with an external thread of the valve, and
               a threadless section beneath the accessible thread section;
wherein the accessible internal thread winds between a quarter of a revolution and four
revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the stopper.
2.       The cap according to claim 1, wherein the accessible internal thread winds
between a half and three and a half revolutions around the internal wall of the body
beneath the stopper.
3.    The cap according to claim 1, wherein the accessible internal thread winds
between one and three revolutions around the internal wall of the body beneath the
stopper.
4.    The cap according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the height of the
unthreaded section is at least twice the height of the accessible thread section.
5.    The cap according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the stopper
comprises a seal, and screwing of the cap on to the valve until it is halted by the seal
results in a sealed engagement between cap and valve.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
