    ELECTROSEISMIC SURVEYING IN EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
                                       ENVIRONMENTS
 5 ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           Systems, methods, and computer programs for monitoring production of fluids
   from a subterranean formation includes receiving, from a first sensor array at a first
   time, a first set of electromagnetic signals generated by an electroseismic or
   seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals caused, at least in part, by the production
10 of fluid from the subterranean formation; receiving, from the first sensor array at a
   second time, a second set of electromagnetic signals generated by an electroseismic or
   seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals caused, at least in part, by the production
   of fluid from the subterranean formation; and determining one or more reservoir
   properties based, at least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the
15 first sensor array.   The first sensor array are arranged to monitor the production
   operation

                                                1
   ELECTROSEISMIC SURVEYING IN EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
                            ENVIRONMENTS
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Conventional techniques for the control of down-hole operations may rely on
   various models, sensors, heuristics, and operator judgment to determine, for example,
   the location of a drill bit in a subsurface formation or the propagation of fractures in
 5 the subsurface formation.       These conventional surveying technologies, however,
   suffer from certain limitations that may prevent a full understanding of the location
   and extent of down-hole operations.       For example, particular surveying techniques
   may require the use of expensive and/or time consuming surveying equipment and
   methods that may limit the economic viability of surveying a particular prospective
10 region.    In addition, particular technologies may be able to provide information
   regarding one or more geophysical properties of a subsurface region, but may not be
   able to provide information on other geophysical properties.        Such limitations may
   lead to the identification of prospective regions for drilling or exploration based on an
   incomplete and/or incorrect understanding of the prospective region, which may cause
15 unnecessary time and/or expenses to be incurred exploring or drilling regions that do
   not have the desired geophysical properties.      For example, based on incomplete or
   incorrect geophysical surveying, a drilling operation may drill a dry hole or drill into
   an unintended portion of the formation.
20         SUMMARY
           In accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure, disadvantages and
   problems associated with conventional techniques of drilling a wellbore, propagating
   fractures, and producing a reservoir may be reduced and/or eliminated. For example,
   a surveying system may be provided using passive electroseismic or seismoelectric
25 surveying techniques for well drilling,        formation enhancement, and reservoir
   production.     The     surveying   system may     utilize survey    data from passive
   electroseismic or seismoelectric surveying to monitor or control well operations.

                                                  2
            In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, a method
   monitoring production of fluids from a subterranean formation includes receiving,
   from a first sensor array at a first time, a first set of electromagnetic signals generated
   by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals caused, at least in
 5 part, by the production of fluid from the subterranean formation. The method further
   includes receiving, from the first sensor array at a second time, a second set of
   electromagnetic signals generated by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion
   of seismic signals caused, at least in part, by the production of fluid from the
   subterranean formation. The method further includes determining one or more
10 reservoir properties based, at least in part, on the first and second sets signals received
   from the first sensor array. The first sensor array are arranged to monitor the
   production operation.
            Technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention include
   the ability to perform passive electroseismic or seismoelectric surveying.             Such
15 surveying     may   detect   an electromagnetic        signal   generated  in  response    to
   electroseismic or seismoelectric conversions caused by well processes, such as
   drilling, production enhancement operations, e.g., fracturing, or reservoir production.
   Similarly, such surveying may detect a seismic signal generated in response to
   electroseismic or seismoelectric        conversions caused by well processes.           The
20 electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion may take place in a subsurface earth
   formation.     Using such techniques, geophysical surveying may be performed without
   the requirement for expensive active sources of electromagnetic or seismic energy,
   which may improve site safety and reduce environmental impacts. The reduction in
   the amount of equipment and power, along with the corresponding reduced footprint
25 at the measurement site, may be an advantage over other surveying systems and
   methods.       From an environmental and health perspective,              the reduction in
   transportation, site preparation, and high energy sources may improve the overall
   health and safety of the workers operating the equipment.                  In addition, the
   electromagnetic field generated by well operations comprises a broad spectrum of
30 frequencies, from sub-hertz frequencies to tens of thousands of hertz frequencies.
   This broad spectrum allows for a broad range of penetration depths from tens of
   meters to tens of kilometers. This broad spectrum also permits high spatial and depth

                                               3
   resolution. Accordingly, the electromagnetic and/or seismic signals detected may be
   processed to identify various properties of the subsurface earth formation and the well
   operation.
            Other technical advantages of the present disclosure will be readily apparent to
 5 one of ordinary skill in the art from the following figures, description, and claims.
   Moreover, other specific advantages of particular surveying techniques and
   combinations are discussed below.           Moreover, while specific advantages are
   explained in the present disclosure, various embodiments may include some, all, or
   none of those advantages.
10
            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            For a more complete understanding of the present invention and its features
   and advantages, reference is now made to the following description, taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
15          FIGURE 1 is a perspective diagram illustrating an example system for passive
   electroseismic and seismoelectric surveying;
            FIGURE 2 is a perspective diagram illustrating an example system for passive
   electroseismic and seismoelectric surveying;
            FIGURES 3A and 3B are flow charts of an example method of monitoring
20 drilling operations using techniques of the present disclosure;
            FIGURE 4 is a block diagram of a computing system according to the present
   disclosure;
            FIGURE 5 is a cross-sectional view of an example well and reservoir;
            FIGURE 6 is a cross-sectional view of an example well and reservoir where
25 the plane-of-view is perpendicular to that of FIGURE 5;
            FIGURES 7 and 8 are cross-sectional views in a plane containing a well in a
   reservoir and the resulting electric field;
            FIGURES 9 and 10 are graphs charting the vertical electric field for a
   horizontal dipole at depth versus horizontal distance from a vertical plane passing
30 though the lateral;
            FIGURES 11 and 12 are graphs charting the amplitude of a horizontal electric
   field versus horizontal distance from the center line;

                                               4
           FIGURES 13A and 13B are flow charts of an example method of monitoring
   fracturing operations using techniques of the present disclosure;
           FIGURES 14A and 14B are flow charts of an example method of monitoring
   production operations using techniques of the present disclosure;
 5         FIGURES 15A, 15B, and 15C are schematic diagrams of sensors according to
   the present disclosure;
           FIGURE     16 is a flow      chart of an example method of performing
   electroseismic and seismoelectric surveying for a drilling operation;
           FIGURE     17 is a flow      chart of an example method of performing
10 electroseismic and seismoelectric surveying for a fracturing operation; and
           FIGURES 18, 19A, 19B, and 20 are flow charts of an example methods of
   monitoring production operations using techniques of the present disclosure.
           DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
15         The   example    embodiments     herein  may     utilize  electroseismic and/or
   seismoelectric sensors to detect the electric fields and/or seismic waves generated
   passively by well operation. Certain embodiments discussed herein may use, at least
   in part, passive surveying techniques that utilize passive sources, such as naturally
   occurring electromagnetic fields and/or seismic waves, and the interactions of
20 electromagnetic or seismic signals generated by those sources with subsurface
   formations through electroseismic and/or seismoelectric conversions to identify
   features and/or properties of subsurface earth formations.       Such surveying may be
   useful for a variety of purposes, including the identification of subsurface water and
   minerals. While passive surveying may be suitable for use as a standalone method of
25 geophysical surveying, passive surveying may, in some embodiments, be performed
   in conjunction with other geophysical surveying methods to identify properties of
   subsurface earth formations. The teachings of the present disclosure are intended to
   encompass embodiments that employ passive surveying as a standalone surveying
   technique as well as embodiments that use passive surveying in conjunction with one
30 or more other methods of geophysical surveying.
           A passive source may be utilized to provide the energy for generating
   electroseismic and/or seismoelectric     conversions in a subsurface formation or

                                               5
   structural   feature.     For example, the     earth's electromagnetic     field and/or
   environmental      seismic energy    may   induce    electroseismic  or seismoelectric
   conversions in a subsurface earth formation that holds hydrocarbons or other
   minerals. As used herein, a "passive source" may include any source that is not being
 5 actively initiated by a surveying operation to actively generate a source of seismic
   and/or electromagnetic energy.      Although a passive source generally includes a
   natural source of electromagnetic energy and/or seismic energy such as the earth's
   natural electromagnetic field, other man-made sources of electromagnetic and/or
   seismic radiation such as electrical power lines or mechanical equipment may also be
10 included as passive sources in particular embodiments.         While certain man-made
   sources may induce an electromagnetic field or seismic wave, they are distinguishable
   from an "active source" such as a seismic generator, explosives, electric field
   generators, and the like in that such sources are generally initiated by and/or are
   associated with a surveying operation to facilitate surveying a subterranean formation.
15 As used herein, "passive surveying," "passive electroseismic surveying," and "passive
   seismoelectric surveying" may refer to surveying that utilizes a passive source as
   opposed to an active source.       Passive surveying may detect the generation of
   secondary seismic waves through coupling of the electromagnetic source field to
   various rock formations (electroseismic effect) and subsequent generations of
20 secondary electromagnetic fields through coupling of the generated seismic waves
   with various rock formations (seismoelectric effect) to probe those formations and the
   fluids they contain. Alternatively or in addition, passive surveying may detect the
   generation of secondary electromagnetic fields through coupling of a seismic source
   field to various rock formations (seismoelectric effect) and subsequent generations of
25 secondary seismic waves through coupling of the generated electromagnetic fields
   with various rock formations (electroseismic effect) to probe those formations and the
   fluids they contain. Generation of tertiary and higher order electromagnetic fields and
   seismic waves can also result from additional couplings as the fields propagate
   towards the surface of the earth.
30         Other surveying techniques such as controlled-source electroseismic or
   seismoelectric surveying typically reject signals generated by such passively
   generated conversions as background noise. Utilizing the teachings of the present

                                                6
   disclosure, however, electromagnetic and seismic signals generated by seismoelectric
   and electroseismic conversions in response to a passive source of energy may be
   detected and processed using various data processing techniques to identify properties
   of the subsurface earth formation. For example, a generated seismic signal may be
 5 identified by detecting the characteristic time lags or frequencies associated with the
   seismic travel time using a time-selective method and determining the depth of origin
   of the seismic signal from said time selective method.
            Electromagnetic and/or seismic signals generated as a result of electroseismic
   or seismoelectric conversions may be detected in any appropriate manner.             For
10 example, various sensors may be utilized to detect one or more of an electromagnetic
   signal and a seismic signal that are generated by a subsurface earth formation in
   response to a passive-source electromagnetic or seismic signal, wherein the
   electromagnetic signal is generated by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion
   of the passive-source electromagnetic or seismic signal. In some embodiments, arrays
15 of sensors may be utilized. Data processing may be utilized to process signals to
   facilitate identification of one or more of the subsurface earth formation properties
   discussed above.
            Using these techniques, various properties of the subsurface earth formation
   may be identified.      For example, processing the detected signal may indicate the
20 presence of fluids such as hydrocarbons and aqueous fluid such as potable water,
   fresh water, and brine water in the subterranean formation. In some embodiments, the
   teachings of the present disclosure may be utilized to identify additional properties of
   the subsurface earth formation, including but not limited to the existence of the
   subsurface earth formation, depth of the subsurface formation, porosity and/or fluid
25 permeability of the subsurface earth formation, the composition of one or more fluids
   within the subsurface earth formation, a spatial extent of the subsurface earth
   formation, an orientation of the boundaries of the subsurface earth formation, and
   resistivity of the subsurface earth formation.     Based on the identified properties,
   models may be developed of the subsurface earth formation, including three
30 dimensional structural and time-dependent models. In addition or in the alternative,
   the techniques of the present disclosure may be utilized to identify the presence of
   and/or migration of various pollutants, gasses, flooding in hydrocarbon production,

                                                 7
   fault movement, aquifer depth, water use, the presence of and/or migration of magma,
   and hydrofracturing properties.
           In some embodiments, passive survey data obtained and/or collected as a
   result of passive surveying may be processed with geophysical survey data obtained
 5 and/or collected using various other surveying techniques. Processing passive survey
   data and other available sources of geophysical survey data may provide various
   technical benefits. For example, such processing may allow additional information,
   more complete information, and/or confirmation of information regarding subsurface
   earth formations. Such processing may take advantage of particular strengths of other
10 survey methods to establish a baseline for comparison and/or determine particular
   properties for which those methods are well-suited.        As a result, passive surveying
   techniques combined with other available surveying techniques may result in a more
   complete understanding of the subsurface formation than would otherwise have been
   available if the individual techniques were used alone.
15         While specific advantages have been enumerated above, various embodiments
   may include all, some, or none of the enumerated advantages.          Embodiments of the
   present disclosure and its advantages are best understood by referring to FIGURES 1
   through 9, wherein like numerals refer to like and corresponding parts of the various
   drawings.
20         Example     embodiment of the present disclosure           may include passive
   electroseismic surveying. Example embodiments of passive electroseismic surveying
   utilize naturally occurring electromagnetic fields (e.g., the earth's background
   electromagnetic field) and their interactions with subsurface formations through
   electroseismic and/or seismoelectric conversions. Passive surveying uses sources of
25 electrical power that are not specifically generated for the surveying method. Electric
   fields originating at the surface of the earth penetrate deeply into the subsurface where
   they interact with certain rock formations to generate seismic waves. These seismic
   waves propagate back to the Earth's surface where they are detected with one or both
   of seismic or electromagnetic sensors.         Detecting the characteristic time lags or
30 frequencies associated with the seismic travel time determines the depth of origin of
   the seismic signal. The amplitude of the returning seismic signal may be indicative of

                                               8
   one or more properties of the subsurface formation, including, for example the fluid
   content of a subsurface formation.
           Passive-source electroseismic surveying (PSES) may provide information
 5 about a subterranean formation that is not available from other methods.             With
   seismic resolution, passive electroseismic surveying can yield information about
   formation porosity, fluid permeability, fluid composition, resistivity, depth, and lateral
   extent of a fluid-bearing formation. Although PSES provides information about many
   useful formation properties, it may not independently measure electrical and seismic
10 properties.   A complementary measure of seismic and electromagnetic properties
   might yield additional useful information.
           An understanding of the passive electromagnetic and seismic effects that is
   useful in passive surveying begins with an understanding of the electromagnetic field
15 within the earth, at least a portion of which may comprise the naturally occurring
   background electromagnetic field of the earth.        The earth's naturally occurring
   electromagnetic field includes a broad spectrum of frequencies, from sub-hertz
   frequencies to tens of thousands of hertz frequencies, having a broad coverage over
   the surface of the earth. This broad spectrum allows for a broad range of penetration
20 depths from tens of meters to tens of kilometers.        The various electromagnetic
   frequencies in the earth may result from various natural events such as
   electromagnetic     fluctuations  in  the   ionosphere   and/or    naturally    occurring
   electromagnetic discharges in the atmosphere (e.g., lightning).
           The earth's electromagnetic field propagates as an electromagnetic modulation
25 that, unlike an acoustic wave, travels at the speed of an electromagnetic wave in the
   subsurface, which is less than the speed of an electromagnetic wave in a vacuum or
   air. The electromagnetic wave may typically travel in the subsurface of the earth at a
   speed of about one hundred times greater than the speed of propagation of an acoustic
   wave in the seismic frequency band of about 1-100 Hz. Due to the relative speed of
30 the electromagnetic wave when compared to the seismic signal, the travel time of the
   electromagnetic wave into the subsurface earth formation is generally neglected for
   purpose of processing electroseismic and seismoelectric data.

                                                9
            Passive electromagnetic and passive seismic surveying make use of two
   properties of subsurface electromagnetic propagation neglected in many other
   surveying methods.      In the first instance, an electromagnetic modulation with an
   electric field perpendicular to the surface of the Earth attenuates weakly. Such waves
 5 of high frequency can propagate and interact with formations from the surface to
   several km in depth and are not used in magnetotellurics.            The high-frequency
   character of these modulations permits measurement of the electromagnetic travel
   time from the surface to a formation of interest. In certain example embodiments, this
   transit time measurement might be used to accurately determine the depth. In the
10 second instance, an electromagnetic modulation entering the Earth's surface interacts
   with    near-surface   formations   by electroseismic     conversion.       Electroseismic
   conversion creates seismic waves that propagate downward into the Earth and might
   reflect from reservoir rock or other formations of interest. The transit time for the
   seismic wave to travel downward from the earth's surface and back from a layer of
15 interest accurately determines the depth where the reflection occurs.
            Electromagnetic modulations from the atmosphere impinge uniformly on the
   earth over large areas.     The atmospheric field subsequently converts to a uniform
   electric field in the Earth's subsurface. That field rotates to a vertical orientation and
   travels to substantial depth where it might reflect from contrasts in resistivity or
20 polarization. The feasibility of passive electromagnetic surveying is enhanced by the
   uniform electric field that creates plane wave propagation in the subsurface. It is
   known that plane waves travel to greater depth than waves generated at a point or
   from a finite source of any shape.
            In a similar fashion, passive seismic generation at the Earth's surface can be
25 used to image the subsurface.       Seismic waves might be generated at the Earth's
   surface by several mechanisms.         First, the atmospheric electric field generates
   electroseismic conversions at the surface. Second, atmospheric disturbances, such as
   thunder, create pressure changes at the surface that also create seismic responses.
   Third, anthropomorphic pressure and ground level noises are created by human
30 activity such as trucks, trains, and machinery. All of these sources of seismic energy
   in the Earth are potential sources for imaging the subsurface by seismic reflection or
   refraction.

                                                10
           Plane waves of seismic origin will penetrate most deeply into the subsurface.
   Then sources of seismic energy that are uniform over large distances are most
   promising for subsurface imaging. Sources that originate in the atmospheric electric
   field or in large scale pressure fluctuations, such as created by thunder, are most likely
 5 to be uniform and penetrate deeply.
           A vertical electric field is attenuated slowly with depth and vertically
   propagating seismic p-wave attenuation and scattering are also attenuated slowly.
   Seismic attenuation calculations suggest that frequencies up to the kilo-Hertz range
   might be useful to depths of thousands feet.
10         The systems and methods disclosed herein advantageously utilize signals that
   have heretofore been neglected and/or not detected.            Magnetotelluric surveying
   generally involves the use of the natural electromagnetic fields that originate in the
   earth's     atmosphere.        In    magnetotelluric     surveying,   naturally-occurring
   electromagnetic fields propagate into the subsurface where they encounter rock
15 formations of differing electrical conductivity.       When the electromagnetic fields
   contact a formation of low conductivity, such as is typical of hydrocarbon reservoirs,
   the electromagnetic field measured at the surface of the earth changes.         Spatially
   dependent electromagnetic fields measured on the earth's surface can be used to
   indicate the presence of low-conductivity formations that might contain hydrocarbons.
20 Magnetotelluric surveying has several limitations.           Only low-frequency, long
   wavelength electromagnetic stimulation may reach prospective reservoirs because the
   high-frequency, horizontal electric fields are rapidly attenuated by the conducting
   earth.    Long-wavelength electromagnetic waves limit the spatial resolution of
   magnetotellurics making reservoir delineation difficult. Additionally, magnetotelluric
25 surveying only provides information about formation electrical conductivity and does
   not yield data revealing information about porosity, permeability, or reservoir
   structure.
           In contrast to magnetotelluric surveying methods, the passive electromagnetic
   surveying method makes use of the time it takes an electromagnetic wave to travel
30 from the surface to the target formation and the time it takes to return to the surface.
   The transit time measurement yields an accurate measure of the depth of a formation.
   Additionally, passive electromagnetic surveying uses the vertical component of the

                                                 11
   passive electric field.   It is known that the vertical component of the electric field
   penetrates deeply into the earth at frequencies that are higher than possible with
   magnetotellurics.
            In general, active-source seismic surveying uses frequencies well below 1000
 5 Hz. A typical seismic survey for 3D imaging might be restricted to frequencies below
   200 Hz and more often to frequencies below 100 Hz. The restriction on frequency is
   limited by several factors. First, the seismic sources couple poorly to the ground.
   High frequencies are attenuated at the source.         Second, geophones used to detect
   seismic energy couple poorly to the surface. Third, the seismic source and receivers
10 are point sources and receivers. Energy propagates rapidly away from point sources
   with geometric spreading. It is then difficult to detect frequencies above 100 Hz at
   target depths of thousands of feet.
            Passive measurements of seismic          energy can overcome the frequency
   limitations   of conventional      seismic   studies.    In particular,    passive   seismic
15 measurements detect the Earth's electric field that then creates a seismic wave by
   electroseismic conversion in the near-surface.        An electromagnetic detector is not
   limited to the ground coupling problems associated with seismic sources and sensors.
   Additionally, an electromagnetic source in the atmosphere can consist of elements of
   arbitrarily high frequencies. Acoustic sources such as thunder and anthropomorphic
20 sources are less likely to have high frequency components.           These considerations
   mediate against using seismic sources and receivers to study passive seismology.
            Example embodiments of passive seismic surveying use an electromagnetic
   detector of the same kind used in electroseismology.           The significant difference
   between the two measurements is that the passive seismic signal is generated by
25 reflections from subsurface boundaries, it does not involve electroseismic conversion
   at target depths, and it arrives at twice a seismic travel time. That is, the seismic signal
   arrives at double the electroseismic arrival time.
            In some example embodiments, a single sensor type, an electric or magnetic
   field sensor, can be used to detect high-frequency, passive, seismic energy and high
30 frequency    passive electromagnetic      energy that are useful as         complementary
   measurements to passive electroseismology.

                                              12
           Passive electromagnetic and seismic surveying can be used alone or in
   combination to overcome limitations of present technologies for hydrocarbon
   exploration and production surveying.      In the absence of high power sources of
   electrical or seismic energy, the costs, environmental, and safety concerns are
 5 reduced. Example implementations of the methods may yield high spatial resolution
   of hydrocarbon or aquifer formations. Example implementations of the methods may
   provide a measure of electrical resistivity and seismic properties including velocities
   of seismic and electromagnetic waves.
           FIGURES 1 and 2 are perspective diagrams illustrating an example system 10
10 for electroseismic and seismoelectric surveying.       Example system 10 includes
   electromagnetic sensors 26, seismic sensors 28, and computing system 30. FIGURE
   1 illustrates an embodiment in which system 10 is generally configured to utilize
   signals 14 propagated by a passive electromagnetic source 12 of electromagnetic
   energy to perform geophysical surveying. FIGURE 2 illustrates an embodiment in
15 which system 10 is generally configured to utilize signals 20 and/or 22, which may be
   propagated by a passive seismic source 40.
           As illustrated in FIGURE 1, sensors 26 and/or 28 generally detect signals
   generated by subsurface earth formation 16 in response to a electromagnetic signal 14
   propagated from passive electromagnetic source 12. Computing system 30 may then
20 process detected signals using various signal processing techniques to identify
   properties and/or features of subsurface earth formation 16.    System 10 may detect
   seismic signals 20 generated due to the electroseismic interactions between the
   electromagnetic signal 14 and the subsurface formation 16, either alone or in
   combination with detecting electromagnetic signal 22, which may be generated as a
25 result of seismoelectric conversions of seismic signals 20.      One or more of the
   detected signals may then be processed to determine one or more properties of the
   subsurface earth formation.
           Passive electromagnetic source 12 represents any appropriate passive source
   of electromagnetic energy. In certain example embodiments, passive electromagnetic
30 source 12 may include the earth's natural electromagnetic field. In certain example
   embodiments, passive electromagnetic source 12 may include one or more man-made
   sources of electromagnetic or seismic energy that are generally not created for the

                                              13
   purpose of surveying of subterranean formations.          The man made sources of
   electromagnetic energy for passive surveying may include electromagnetic energy
   from power lines or other sources of electromagnetic energy. Passive electromagnetic
   source 12 propagates electromagnetic energy into the subsurface of the earth as
 5 electromagnetic signal 14. Electromagnetic signal 14 may represent, for example, an
   electromagnetic plane wave 14.      As electromagnetic signal 14 propagates into the
   earth, it may encounter various subsurface earth formations 16. The interaction of
   electromagnetic signal 14 and subsurface earth formation           16 may cause an
   electroseismic conversion to take place at an edge and/or boundary 18 of subsurface
10 formation 16. As a result, one or more seismic waves 20 may propagate towards the
   surface of the earth. Electromagnetic signal 22 may be generated as a result of a
   seismoelectric conversion as seismic signals 20a propagate towards the surface.
   Electromagnetic sensors 26 may detect electromagnetic signals 22. Seismic sensors
   28 may detect seismic signals 20b.
15         Passive electromagnetic source 12 may represent earth's naturally occurring
   electromagnetic field. Earth's naturally occurring electromagnetic field may include a
   broad spectrum of frequencies, from sub-hertz frequencies to tens of thousands of
   hertz frequencies, having a broad coverage over the surface of the earth. This broad
   spectrum allows for a broad range of penetration depths of electromagnetic signal 14
20 from tens of meters to tens of kilometers. This broad spectrum further may permit
   detection of subsurface structures with high spatial and depth resolution.        The
   corresponding frequencies of electromagnetic signal 14 in the earth may result from
   variations in passive electromagnetic source 12 due to various natural events such as
   electromagnetic fluctuations in the ionosphere, naturally occurring electromagnetic
25 discharges in the atmosphere such as lightning, and/or other electromagnetic events.
   In some embodiments, passive electromagnetic source 12 of electromagnetic signals
   14 may include natural sources of electromagnetic radiation, which may have
   sufficiently low frequencies to reach and interact with subterranean formation 16. As
   another example, passive electromagnetic source 12 may include power transmission
30 lines, which may generate electromagnetic signals 14 of appropriate strength and/or
   frequency to interact with subterranean formation 16.

                                                14
            Electromagnetic     signal    14    represents    an  electromagnetic      wave,
   electromagnetic plane wave, or other appropriate electromagnetic              signal that
   propagates into the Earth from passive electromagnetic source 12. For example, in
   response to Earth's electromagnetic field, electromagnetic signal 14 may propagate
 5 into the Earth as an electromagnetic modulation that, unlike an acoustic wave, travels
   at the speed of an electromagnetic wave in the subsurface.             The speed of an
   electromagnetic wave in the subsurface may generally be less than the speed of an
   electromagnetic wave in a vacuum or air. Electromagnetic signal 14 may typically
   travel in the subsurface of the earth at a speed of about one hundred times greater than
10 the speed of propagation of an acoustic wave in the seismic frequency band of about
   1-100 Hz. Due to the relative speed of electromagnetic signal 14 when compared to a
   seismic signal, the travel time of the electromagnetic signal 14 into the subsurface
   earth formation may, in some embodiments, be ignored when processing the detected
   electromagnetic field 22 and/or detected seismic signals 20. Although illustrated as a
15 static field, it should be noted that electromagnetic signal 14 may be a time-varying
   field.
            Electromagnetic signal 14 may propagate into the subsurface of the earth as an
   approximate plane wave modulation, including over subsurface formation 16 of
   interest.   The term "plane wave" may refer to a wave with substantially uniform
20 amplitude on a plane normal to a velocity vector of electromagnetic signal 14. The
   velocity vector may be generally vertical, although not necessarily perpendicular to
   the surface of the Earth above subsurface earth formation 16. For example, a velocity
   vector may be substantially vertical but may appear inclined relative to a vertical axis
   at the surface where the surface is on an incline, such as on a hillside or other incline.
25 As a result of the electroseismic effect and/or seismoelectric effect, the seismic
   signals 20 and/or electromagnetic signals 22 resulting from electromagnetic signals 14
   may be generated substantially uniformly across subsurface formation 16. As a result,
   seismic signals 20 and/or electromagnetic signals 22 may each form a substantially
   vertical plane wave traveling to the surface of the Earth.
30          Subsurface earth formation 16 represents any subsurface earth formation of
   interest for the purposes of geophysical surveying.      Subsurface earth formation 16
   may represent a geologic formation that holds one or more fluids.                In some

                                                 15
   embodiments, subsurface earth formation 16 represents a porous rock formation able
   to hold fluids. A porous rock formation may, for example, include solid rock portion
   interspersed with channel-like porous spaces.         A porous rock formation may, for
   example, include an earth substance containing non-earthen volume or pore space,
 5 and may include, but is not limited to, consolidated, poorly consolidated, or
   unconsolidated earthen materials. Fluids held by subsurface earth formation 16 may
   be hydrocarbons such as oil and gas, water (including fresh, salt, potable, or briny
   water), helium, carbon dioxide, minerals, or other earth fluids. In some embodiments,
   subsurface earth formation 16 may represent a formation holding pollutants, magma,
10 or molten material. Subsurface earth formation 16 may represent a geologic layer, a
   stratographic trap, a fault, a fold-thrust belt, or other geographic formation of interest.
   Subsurface earth formation 16 may represent a prospective or potential area of interest
   for exploration operations, drilling operations, production enhancement operations, or
   fluid production.
15         Subsurface earth formation 16 may include a polarizable fluid including one
   or more fluid dipoles 114 associated with a fluid in subsurface earth formation 16. As
   a result, an electrochemical interaction may form between the polarizable fluid and
   the solid rock portions at boundary 18. The electrochemical interaction is represented
   by the "+" symbol in the fluid portion and the "-" symbol in the solid rock portion.
20 Electromagnetic signals 14 may encounter and/or interact with fluid dipoles 114 of
   subsurface earth formation 16.        In particular, the electromagnetic signals 14 may
   cause a change in the polarization of dipoles 114 in the pore fluid, which in turn may
   cause a pressure pulse 118 to be generated. For example, electromagnetic signals 14
   may modify the electrochemical bonds or move the charges of fluid dipoles 114,
25 thereby effectively creating pressure pulse 118 where the interactions are distorted.
   Pressure pulse 118 may represent a change in pressure and/or fluid flow that produces
   a time-varying pressure gradient, which may then propagate and/or be transmitted into
   the earth formation (or rock) at boundary 18 of subsurface earth formation 16.
   Electromagnetic signals 14 exist throughout the fluid area and may primarily affect
30 the charges of the dipoles 114 which are at or near boundary 18 of the rock. The
   pressure gradient produced by pressure pulse 118 may propagate towards the surface
   as seismic signal 20. In should be noted that the solid rock portion may have an

                                               16
   existing natural surface charge over at least a portion of the rock surface.           The
   electrochemical interaction may result in a local pore fluid dipole 114 that causes a
   local background electromagnetic field.        Moreover, the sign of the background
   electromagnetic field or field polarity direction depends on the surface charge on the
 5 solid and the way the fluid screens out that charge. For example, for clay layers, the
   charge is typically as shown as illustrated. In other materials such as carbonates,
   however, the charge may be reversed. Thus, an appropriate subsurface formation 16
   may be a subsurface source of seismic energy.
           Boundary 18 may represent an appropriate edge, boundary, fluid surface, or
10 interface between subsurface earth formation 16 and other portions of the subsurface.
   Boundary 18 may represent the boundary of a hydrocarbon reservoir, stratographic
   trap, fold thrust belt, geologic rock layer, or other geological formation holding or
   likely to hold fluids and other minerals of interest. Boundary 18 may represent a
   boundary between any two types of subsurface materials.
15         Electroseismic energy conversion may occur at the boundary 18 between two
   types of rock. For example, the electroseismic energy conversion may occur at the
   boundary 18 between reservoir rock and the sealing and/or confining rock.
   Alternatively, electroseismic energy conversion may occur at an interface 18 between
   pore fluids, for example, between oil and water. At the rock and/or fluid interfaces 18
20 there may be a gradient in the chemical potential. For example, at the boundary 18
   between a silicate rock and a carbonate rock, a chemical reaction may occur in the
   comingled pore fluids. For example, the silicate may dissolve the carbonate, and the
   silicate ions in solution may react with the carbonate ions in solution. The overall
   reaction may be driven by a gradient in the chemical potential at the interface 18. The
25 reaction product between positive and negative ions in solution is electrically neutral
   and may precipitate out of solution.      When a precipitate is formed, the resulting
   deposition of the precipitate strengthens the rock, increases its hardness, and increases
   the electrical resistivity of the interface.    During the reactions in pore spaces,
   concentration gradients of charged ions may be created within the pore fluids. These
30 concentration gradients may produce an electrochemical-potential gradient which may
   manifest itself as a macroscopic electrical potential gradient. The internal electrical
   potential gradients at the interfaces may create internal stresses, and the interaction of

                                               17
   the earth's background electromagnetic field 14 with the electrochemical-potential
   gradient may change these internal stresses. Due to the natural modulations in the
   earth's background electromagnetic field 14, the internal stresses may be modulated,
   accounting for the nonlinear electroseismic conversions that may be measured and
 5 used by system 10.
           Seismic signals 20 represent any seismic signals and/or seismic waves
   generated by the electroseismic effect in response to electromagnetic signal 14. As
   noted above, seismic signals 20 may represent a substantially vertical plane wave that
   travels towards the surface of the Earth. Seismic signals 20 may generate subsequent
10 secondary electromagnetic fields and seismic waves through various combinations of
   the electroseismic and seismoelectric effects as seismic signals 20 propagate to the
   surface.   For example, as illustrated, seismic wave 20a may be converted by the
   seismoelectric effect to an electromagnetic signal 22 at a near surface formation 24.
   In some embodiments, seismic signals 20 may represent secondary seismic signals
15 generated as a result of various seismoelectric and/or electroseismic conversions of
   seismic signals 20 as they propagate towards the surface.      Seismic signals 20 may
   represent any mechanical seismic wave that propagates in the subsurface of the earth
   and may include, but is not limited to, P- and S-waves.
           Electromagnetic    signals   22    represent   any   electromagnetic    signals,
20 electromagnetic fields, or electromagnetic waves generated by the seismoelectric
   effect in response to seismic signals 20. As noted above, electromagnetic signals 22
   may represent a substantially vertical plane wave traveling to the surface of the Earth.
   Electromagnetic signals 22 may generate subsequent secondary seismic signals and
   electromagnetic signals as electromagnetic signals 22 propagate to the surface.
25 Electromagnetic    signals  22 may represent       secondary   electromagnetic   signals
   generated as a result of various seismoelectric and/or electroseismic conversions of
   seismic signals 20 as they propagate towards the surface.       In some embodiments,
   electromagnetic signals 22 may be detectable in the near-surface of the Earth and/or at
   some distance above the surface of the Earth. In addition, electromagnetic signals 22
30 may represent a time-variant electromagnetic field resulting from the seismoelectric
   effect. Electromagnetic signals 22 may modulate an electromagnetic field within the
   Earth, such as in the near surface 24 and may thus be referred to as a modulating

                                              18
   signal. "Modulation," or "modulating," may refer to frequency modulation, phase
   modulation, and/or amplitude modulation.        For example, seismic signals 20 may
   travel to the near-surface 24 and directly modulate an electromagnetic field within the
   near-surface 24. Seismic signals 20 may cause a change in the electrical impedance
 5 in near-surface 24, which may result in a time-dependent variation of electromagnetic
   signals 22 and/or the passage of seismic signals 20 may interact with a fluid or rock
   boundary at near surface 20 to produce electromagnetic signals 20.
           Electroseismic conversions may also produce nonlinear electromagnetic
   conversions. Seismoelectric and electroseismic effects generate harmonic responses
10 where the coupling of electromagnetic signals 22 and seismic signals 20 create new
   modulations at frequencies that are harmonics of the electromagnetic signals 22 and
   seismic signals 20. Accordingly, electromagnetic signals 22 and seismic signals 20
   may represent one or more non-linear electromagnetic responses.              Nonlinear
   electroseismic conversions may produce signals useful during processing. In some
15 embodiments, nonlinear, harmonic signals having frequency components at higher
   frequency harmonics of the passive electromagnetic source 12's fundamental
   frequency,    such as     those  frequencies   present  in the   earth's   background
   electromagnetic field, may be detected as a result of distortions of electromagnetic
   signals 14 interacting with subsurface earth formation 16 when it contains at least one
20 fluid.   The harmonic signals may be processed alone or in conjunction with the
   fundamental frequencies of the seismic signals 20 and/or the electromagnetic signals
   22 to determine one or more properties of the subsurface earth formation. In some
   embodiments, system 10 may be utilized to detect and/or isolate the harmonic signals
   that may be present in both electromagnetic signals 22 and seismic signals 20.
25         Subsurface     formation   16   may   generate   seismic  signals   20   and/or
   electromagnetic signals 22 particularly when fluid is present in a porous formation,
   such as formations of high permeability.      Accordingly, seismic signals 20 and/or
   electromagnetic signals 22 may indicate the presence of that fluid and/or may be
   utilized by system 10 to locate and/or potentially locate particular fluids, such as
30 hydrocarbons, Helium, carbon dioxide, or water, water, or other types of fluids as
   described above. In addition, when conventional seismic reflection boundaries 18

                                                19
   exist between subsurface formation 16 and the surface, seismic reflections may occur
   and may be detected by seismic sensors 20.
           Near-surface formation 24 represents a subsurface formation at or near the
   surface of the Earth. Near-surface formation 24 may, for example, represent a water
 5 table or other porous rock layer. Seismic signals 20 may interact with fluid in pores
   of near-surface formation 24. As a result, charges within the pore may be modified.
   The pore may, for example, contain fresh water as is present in the water table. The
   resulting modification of the charges may generate an alternating current field, which
   may lead to the emission of electromagnetic signals 22 through the seismoelectric
10 effect.
           Electromagnetic sensors 26 represent any suitable combination of sensing
   elements    capable of detecting and/or measuring         at least some portion of
   electromagnetic signals 22.      Electromagnetic sensors 26 may be communicatively
   coupled to computing system 30 and/or configured to output detected signals to
15 computing system 30. In some embodiments, sensors 26 may be configured to detect
   and/or isolate the vertical component of the electromagnetic signals 22. As noted
   above, electromagnetic signals 22 may be emitted above the surface of the earth as a
   detectable electromagnetic field. It should also be noted that an electromagnetic field
   generally   includes   an electric     field and a magnetic     field.    Accordingly,
20 electromagnetic sensor 26 may be capable of detecting electromagnetic signals 22, an
   electric portion of electromagnetic signals 22, and/or a magnetic portion of
   electromagnetic signals 22. In some embodiments, electromagnetic sensor 26 may
   represent a magnetic field detector capable of detecting a magnetic field. In some
   embodiments, electromagnetic sensors 26 may be configured to attenuate and/or
25 reject horizontal or vertical electromagnetic signals.
           Electromagnetic sensors 26 may be arranged in an array and/or in a variety of
   patterns. Any appropriate number of electromagnetic sensors 26 may be arranged in
   the array or pattern. For example, an array of electromagnetic sensors 26 may include
   anywhere from two to thousands of sensors. In some embodiments, electromagnetic
30 sensors 26 may represent a set of sensors that includes one or more magnetic field
   detectors, one or more electric field detectors, and one or more electromagnetic field
   detectors, which may be used in particular locations for passive surveying. The array

                                             20
   may be configured of one or more disposed electromagnetic sensors, such as sensor
   26a and 26b, separated by an appropriate lateral distance. For example, sensor 26a
   and 26b may be located anywhere between several inches to several miles apart.
           Sensors 26 may comprise any type of sensor capable of measuring the vertical
 5 electric field component of electromagnetic signals 22 in the near surface 24 of the
   Earth. In some embodiments, additional or alternative signals may also be measured
   including the background vertical portion of electromagnetic signals 14, the passive
   electromagnetic source 12 of electromagnetic radiation, one or more components of
   the magnetic field, one or more horizontal components of the electromagnetic signal
10 and/or one or more components of the seismic amplitude. In some embodiments, one
   or more electromagnetic field detectors may be configured to measure a horizontal
   component of the earth's electromagnetic field in one or more dimensions.          For
   example, sensors 26 may include electrode pairs disposed in a horizontal alignment to
   measure one or more horizontal components of electromagnetic signals 22 and/or
15 electromagnetic signals 14. In some embodiments, sensor 26 may be configured to
   measure multiple components of electromagnetic signals 22 and/or 14. For example,
   sensor 26 may represent a two-axis electromagnetic field detector and/or a three-axis
   electromagnetic field detector.
           Sensors 26 may be disposed above the surface of the Earth and/or within the
20 Earth. In some embodiments, sensor 26 may be placed at or on the surface of the
   Earth or at any distance above the surface of the Earth. For example, electromagnetic
   sensors 26 may be disposed anywhere from one to one hundred feet above the Earth,
   depending on the relative amplification capabilities of sensors 26 and the attenuation
   of electromagnetic signals 22. Sensors 26 may also be placed in aircraft. In certain
25 example embodiments, the aircraft fly low. In some embodiments, sensors 26 may be
   disposed above and/or below the water table, above and/or below subsurface earth
   formation 16, and/or any appropriate combinations of locations and depths. Sensors
   26 may be maintained in one location during a detection period of particular
   electromagnetic signals 22 and/or may be subsequently moved to provide another
30 detection period. Additionally or alternatively, a plurality of sensors 26, such as an
   array, may be used to provide multiple simultaneous measurements at multiple
   locations.    For example, electromagnetic sensors 26 may be disposed within a

                                             21
   wellbore. Alternatively or in addition, an array of electromagnetic sensors 26 may be
   disposed in the area above and/or surrounding the wellbore to facilitate drilling
   operations and/or exploration of drilled fields.    A more detailed discussion of an
   example operation of such embodiments is discussed below with respect to FIGURE
 5 7. More detailed examples of sensors 26 are illustrated in FIGURES 2A, 2B, and 2C.
           Seismic sensors 28 represent any suitable combination of sensing elements
   capable of detecting and/or measuring at least some portion of seismic signals 20. For
   example, sensors 28 may be configured to detect the vertical component of seismic
   signals 20.    Seismic sensors 28 may be communicatively coupled to computing
10 system 30 and/or configured to output detected signals to computing system 30.
   Seismic sensors 28 may include, but are not limited to, geophones, hydrophones,
   and/or accelerometers, including digital accelerometers. Sensors 28 may represent a
   single-component geophone, a two-component geophone, or a three-component
   geophone.     Sensors 28 may also represent a single-axis accelerometer, a two-axis
15 accelerometer, or a three-axis accelerometer. In some embodiments, seismic sensors
   28 may represent one or more three-component accelerometers.            Additionally or
   alternatively, sensors 28 may represent any appropriate combinations of these types of
   seismic sensors. For example, multiple types of sensors 28 may be utilized by system
   10 to detect seismic signals 20. Seismic sensors 28 may measure a seismic wave in
20 multiple directions, for example in one or two directions parallel to the surface of the
   earth, in a direction perpendicular to the surface of the earth, and/or in a vertical
   direction.   Seismic sensors 28 may measure rotational seismic energy where earth
   motion is circular around a horizontal or vertical axis.      Rotational sensors may
   advantageously be used to identify surface seismic waves.
25         Seismic sensors 28 may be arranged in an array and/or in a variety of patterns.
   For example, seismic sensors 28 may be arranged and/or located in similar manners
   and locations as discussed above with respect to sensors 26. Any appropriate number
   of seismic sensors 28 may be arranged in the array or pattern. As another example, a
   grid pattern may be used.    Seismic sensors 28 may be laterally spaced apart by a
30 distance related to the wavelength of the highest frequency surface seismic waves
   expected to be detected. That may include higher frequencies than those expected to
   be produced by the electroseismic effect within the subsurface earth formation.

                                              22
   Seismic sensors 28 may be configured to attenuate and/or reject surface and/or
   horizontal seismic signals. Such signals may be caused by various sources including
   heavy equipment, vehicular traffic, and/or natural sources such as earthquakes and/or
   thunder.
 5         In some embodiments, a pattern and/or array of electromagnetic sensors 26
   may overlap with a pattern or array of seismic sensors 28. Signals detected by sensors
   26 and/or 28 may be transmitted to computing system 30. In some embodiments, the
   signals may be suitably recorded, for example, using a conventional seismic field
   recorder.   Additionally or alternatively, each sensor may have its own recording
10 device, and each recording device may be internal or external to the seismic sensor. It
   should be noted that while illustrated as including sensors 26 and 28, system 10 may
   include only sensors 26 or only sensors 28 as appropriate for particular embodiments.
   Accordingly, any appropriate combination of sensors 26 and/or sensors 28 may be
   utilized.
15         Sensors 26 and/or 28 may be placed in a wellbore.       For example, in some
   implementations one or more contacts are provided down-hole on the inside of a
   casing to measure electric potential.    With such a configuration, the arrival of an
   electroseismic signal may be measured for locations along the wellbore.       In other
   implementations, one or more seismic sensors 28 may be positioned down-hole.
20         Sensors 26 and/or 28 may form all or a portion of a long-term installation,
   which may be utilized for long-term passive surveying. Signals 20 and/or 22 may be
   detected at multiple times over a period of time, which may be periods of days,
   weeks, months, or years. Long-term surveys may provide a time-based indication of
   various properties of subsurface earth formation 16, including any changes in the
25 formation over the time period in which the signals are detected. System 10 may thus
   be used to monitor the development and/or depletion of a hydrocarbon field and/or
   water well or aquifer over periods of production.
           Computing system 30 represents any suitable combination of hardware,
   software, signal processors, and controlling logic to process, store, and/or analyze
30 electromagnetic signals 22 and/or seismic signals 20 received from sensors 26 and/or
   28.   Computing system 30 may include one or more processors, memory, and/or
   interfaces. Computing system 30 may, for example, include an interface operable to

                                              23
   communicatively couple with and/or receive information from sensors 26 and/or 28.
   Computing system may be operable to receive and/or process passive survey data
   from sensors 26 and 28.       Passive survey data may include, for example, data
   representative of signals 20 and/or 22.    Computing system 30 may include one or
 5 more appropriate analog-to-digital converters to digitize signals 20 and/or 22 for
   digital signal processing.   Alternatively or in addition, sensors 26 and/or 28 may
   include appropriate analog-to-digital converters. Computing system 30 may include a
   recording and/or storage device operable to receive and store data received from
   sensors 26 and 28. Computing system 30 may include, for example, digital and/or
10 analog recording devices and/or non-transitory media.          In some embodiments,
   computing system 30 may be capable of processing detected seismic signal 20 and the
   detected electromagnetic signal 22 in real-time without first recording the signals on a
   non-transitory medium.
           Computing system 30 may form all or a portion of a recording vehicle, a
15 housing structure, or a weather resistant enclosure located proximate sensors 26
   and/or 28.    In some embodiments, computing system 30 may be at least partially
   enclosed in a weather-resistant enclosure. Accordingly, computing system 30 may be
   capable of recording passive survey data over days to weeks without human
   intervention.    Moreover, while illustrated as external to sensors 26 and/or 28,
20 computing system 30 may be internal or external to a housing of one or more sensors
   26 and/or 28. Moreover, computing device 30 may be one of a plurality of computing
   devices 30 used to record one or more electric and/or seismic signals. Computing
   device 30 may be capable of communicating with other computing devices 30 or
   other data processing servers over a network (not illustrated). The network may be a
25 wired or wireless communications network.         Thus, any of the data processing
   techniques described herein may be performed by one or more computing devices 30
   and/or may be performed by a remote data processing server, which may be capable
   of processing and correlating data from various computing devices 30. An example
   embodiment of computing system 30 is discussed in more detail below with respect to
30 FIGURE 4.
           As illustrated in FIGURE 2, passive seismic source 40 represents any
   appropriate passive source of seismic energy.    For example, passive source 40 may

                                              24
   represent the earth's natural seismic energy. Passive source 40 propagates seismic
   energy into the subsurface of the earth as seismic signal 42. Seismic signal 42 may
   represent, for example, a seismic plane wave 42. As seismic signal 42 propagates into
   the earth, it may encounter various subsurface earth formations 16. The interaction of
 5 seismic signal 42 and subsurface earth formation 16 may cause a seismoelectric
   conversion to take place at an edge and/or boundary 18 of subsurface formation 16.
   As a result, one or more electromagnetic signals 22 and/or seismic signals 20 may
   propagate towards the surface of the earth.        Electromagnetic signal 22 may be
   generated as a result of a seismoelectric conversion as seismic signals 20 propagate
10 towards the surface. Electromagnetic sensors 26 may detect electromagnetic signals
   22. Seismic sensors 28 may detect seismic signals 20. In some embodiments, seismic
   sensors 28 may detect seismic signals 40, which may be used as a reference to detect
   a modulation of signals 20 and/or 22 by subsurface earth formation 16.
           Passive seismic source 40 may represent earth's naturally occurring seismic
15 energy. Earth's naturally occurring seismic energy may include a broad spectrum of
   frequencies, from sub-hertz frequencies to tens of thousands of hertz frequencies,
   having a broad coverage over the surface of the earth. This broad spectrum allows for
   a broad range of penetration depths of seismic signal 42 from tens of meters to tens of
   kilometers.      This broad spectrum further may permit detection of subsurface
20 structures with high spatial and depth resolution. The corresponding frequencies of
   seismic signal 42 in the earth may result from variations in passive source 40 due to
   various natural events such as Earth quakes, tides, tectonic events, volcano activity,
   thunder, and atmospheric pressure fluctuations. In some embodiments, passive source
   40 of seismic signals 42 may include cultural sources of seismic waves, which may
25 have sufficiently low frequencies to reach and interact with subterranean formation
   16.   As another example, passive source 40 may include well-drilling activities,
   pumping      fluids,  automobile  noise,   compressor     noise, farming   noise,  and
   manufacturing noise, which may generate seismic signals 42 of appropriate strength
   and/or frequency to interact with subterranean formation 16.
30         FIGURE 2 includes several examples of passive seismic source 40, including
   passive seismic sources 40a-40e. Passive seismic source 40a may represent a source
   of seismic energy resulting from a drilling operation. Passive seismic source 40a may

                                               25
   represent a localized drilling event at a particular depth (such as, for example, the
   head of a drill bit or drilling apparatus interacting with the subsurface) and/or may
   represent vibrations from drilling activities along a length of the hole and/or casing.
   Passive seismic source 40b may represent a source of seismic energy resulting from
 5 horizontal drilling activities such as fracturing, hydrofracturing, or other drilling
   operations.   Additionally or alternatively, passive seismic source 40b may represent
   seismic energy caused by fluid i* moving through rock pore spaces (which may be the
   result of hydrofracturing).    Passive seismic sources 40c and 40d may represent
   sources of seismic energy resulting from the Earth's natural seismic activity and/or a
10 microseismic or other natural event, as described above. Passive seismic source 40b
   may represent a source of seismic energy resulting from a near-surface or surface
   event. Accordingly, passive seismic source 40 may include any appropriate source of
   seismic energy and/or may be located in any appropriate relationship to subsurface
   earth formation 16, including above, below, beside, or in subsurface earth formation
15 16.   Additionally or alternatively passive seismic source 40 may include seismic
   energy caused by a drill bit, fracturing rock, fluid moving through rock pore spaces,
   wells where drilling or pumping activity occurs, and/or by pollutant fluids migrating
   through the subsurface.
           Seismic signal 42 represents a seismic wave, seismic plane wave, or other
20 appropriate seismic signal that propagates into the Earth from passive source 40.
   Accordingly, seismic signal 42 may emanate from any appropriate passive seismic
   source 40, including those originating at the Earth's surface and/or located at some
   appropriate depth below the surface.       For example, seismic signals 42a-42e may
   respectively originate from passive seismic sources 40a-40e. It should be understood
25 that the various signals illustrated in FIGURES 1 and 2 are depicted in different
   figures for the sake of clarity only. Accordingly, particular embodiments of system
   10 may be capable of utilizing signals 20 and/or 22 propagated by passive
   electromagnetic source 12 and/or passive seismic source 40. Moreover, system 10
   may be configured to utilize signals 20 and/or 22 from passive electromagnetic source
30 12 at particular times while utilizing signals 20 and/or 22 from passive seismic source
   40 at particular other times and/or may utilize the signals at the same time. For
   example, passive electroseismic/seismoelectric surveying utilizing passive seismic

                                              26
   sources 40 and/or passive electromagnetic sources 12 may be collected during drilling
   or fracturing or enhanced oil recovery to acquire information about hydrocarbons
   and/or other fluids.    Survey data from passive electromagnetic sources 12 may be
   collected, for instance, when passive seismic sources 40 are attenuated. For example,
 5 the drilling operation may be paused and/or finished. As another example, computing
   system 30 may perform passive surveying during drilling, fracturing, and/or enhanced
   oil recovery to acquire information about hydrocarbons and/or other fluids.
            In operation, system 10 detects, stores, and/or analyzes electromagnetic
   signals 22 and/or seismic signals 20.     Sensors 26 and 28 respectively may detect
10 electromagnetic signals 22 and seismic signals 20.      Each sensor may transmit the
   detected signals to computing device 30 for storage and/or processing. Computing
   device 30 may record the resulting electromagnetic signals 22 and/or seismic signals
   20. Computing device 30 may process electromagnetic signals 22 and/or seismic
   signals 20 to identify various properties associated with subsurface formation 16.
15 Sensors 26 and/or 28 may additionally or alternatively detect signals generated by
   subsurface earth formation 16 in response to a electromagnetic signal 42 propagated
   from passive seismic source 40. Computing system 30 may then process detected
   signals using various signal processing techniques to identify properties and/or
   features of subsurface earth formation 16.      Thus, the techniques discussed in the
20 present disclosure may be utilized to analyze signals 20 and/or 22 generated as a
   result of passive electromagnetic source 12 and/or passive seismic source 40. Certain
   examples of the operation of system 10 provided below may be discussed with respect
   to a passive electromagnetic source 12, but it should be noted that the teachings of the
   present disclosure apply similarly and/or the same to signals generated by passive
25 seismic source 40.
            Certain embodiments of system 10 monitor one or more drilling operations,
   production enhancement operations (e.g., fracturing), or fluid production operations
   by processing signals from a set of sensors, including one or more electromagnetic
   sensors 26 and one or more seismic sensors 28.        Sensors may include but are not
30 restricted to: geophones that may detect seismic and/or electromagnetic signals;
   accelerometers that may or may not include an electromagnetic sensor; a capacitive
   electric field sensor that may or may not include a seismic accelerometer and or a

                                               27
   geophone and or a magnetic field sensor; a coil electromagnetic sensor that may or
   may not include a geophone or accelerometer for seismic detection and may or may
   not include a magnetic field sensor; an electromagnetic field antenna that may or may
   not include a seismic sensor and may or may not include an electric field and/or a
 5 magnetic field sensor, said antenna being a dipole antenna, a monopole antenna or
   other electromagnetic field antenna as well-known to those skilled in the art;           a
   magnetic sensor that may or may not include an electric field sensor and may or may
   not include a seismic sensor.
           FIG. 4 illustrates an example computer system 30 suitable for implementing one
10 or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system 30 includes a processor
   482 (which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU) that is in
   communication with memory devices including secondary storage 484, read only
   memory (ROM) 486, random access memory (RAM) 488, input/output (1/0) devices
   490, and network connectivity devices 492. The processor may be implemented as one
15 or more CPU chips.
           It is understood that by programming and/or loading executable instructions
   onto the computing system 30, at least one of the CPU 482, the RAM 488, and the
   ROM 486 are changed, transforming the computing system 30 in part into a particular
   machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It
20 is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that
   functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer
   can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions
   between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on
   considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than
25 any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain.
   Generally, a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be
   implemented in software, because re-spinning a hardware implementation is more
   expensive than re-spinning a software design. Generally, a design that is stable that will
   be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware, for
30 example in an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), because for large
   production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software
   implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and

                                               28
   later transformed,    by well     known design     rules,  to  an equivalent      hardware
   implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the
   instructions of the software.   In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new
   ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus, likewise a computer that has been
 5 programmed and/or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular
   machine or apparatus.
            The secondary storage 484 is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or
   tape drives and is used for non-volatile storage of data and as an over-flow data storage
   device if RAM 488 is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage 484
10 may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM 488 when such programs
   are selected for execution. The ROM 486 is used to store instructions and perhaps data
   which are read during program execution. ROM 486 is a non-volatile memory device
   which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of
   secondary storage 484. The RAM 488 is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store
15 instructions.   Access to both ROM 486 and RAM 488 is typically faster than to
   secondary storage 484. The secondary storage 484, the RAM 488, and/or the ROM 486
   may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and/or non
   transitory computer readable media.
            1/0 devices 490 may include printers, video monitors, liquid crystal displays
20 (LCDs), touch screen displays, keyboards, keypads, switches, dials, mice, track balls,
   voice recognizers, card readers, paper tape readers, or other well-known input devices.
            The network connectivity devices 492 may take the form of modems, modem
   banks, Ethernet cards, universal serial bus (USB) interface cards, serial interfaces, token
   ring cards, fiber distributed data interface (FDDI) cards, wireless local area network
25 (WLAN) cards, radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access (CDMA),
   global    system for mobile communications (GSM),           long-term evolution (LTE),
   worldwide interoperability for microwave access (WiMAX), and/or other air interface
   protocol radio transceiver cards, and other well-known network devices.               These
   network connectivity devices 492 may enable the processor 482 to communicate with
30 the Internet or one or more intranets.         With such a network connection, it is
   contemplated that the processor 482 might receive information from the network, or
   might output information to the network in the course of performing the above-

                                                29
   described method steps. Such information, which is often represented as a sequence of
   instructions to be executed using processor 482, may be received from and outputted to
   the network, for example, in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier
   wave.
 5          Such information, which may include data or instructions to be executed using
   processor 482 for example, may be received from and outputted to the network, for
   example, in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier
   wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the
   network connectivity devices 492 may propagate in or on the surface of electrical
10 conductors, in coaxial cables, in waveguides, in an optical conduit, for example an
   optical fiber, or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband
   signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different
   sequences, as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or
   transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in
15 the carrier wave, or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed, may be
   generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.         The
   baseband signal and/or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some
   contexts as a transitory signal.
            The processor 482 executes instructions, codes, computer programs, scripts
20 which it accesses from hard disk, floppy disk, optical disk (these various disk based
   systems may all be considered secondary storage 484), ROM 486, RAM 488, or the
   network connectivity devices 492. While only one processor 482 is shown, multiple
   processors may be present. Thus, while instructions may be discussed as executed by a
   processor, the instructions may be executed simultaneously, serially, or otherwise
25 executed by one or multiple processors.         Instructions, codes, computer programs,
   scripts, and/or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage 484, for example,
   hard drives, floppy disks, optical disks, and/or other device, the ROM 486, and/or the
   RAM 488 may be referred to in some contexts as non-transitory instructions and/or
   non-transitory information.
30          In some embodiments, computing system 30 may comprise two or more
   computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For
   example, but not by way of limitation, an application may be partitioned in such a way

                                               30
   as to permit concurent and/or parallel processing of the instructions of the application.
   Alternatively, the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as
   to permit concurrent and/or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the
   two or more computers.         In some embodiments, virtualization software may be
 5 employed by the computing system 30 to provide the functionality of a number of
   servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computing system
   30. For example, virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four
   physical computers. In some embodiments, the functionality disclosed above may be
   provided by executing the application and/or applications in a cloud computing
10 environment.     Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a
   network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing
   may be supported, at least in part, by virtualization software.      A cloud computing
   environment may be established by an enterprise and/or may be hired on an as-needed
   basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise
15 cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud
   computing resources hired and/or leased from a third party provider.
           In some embodiments, some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be
   provided as a computer program product.           The computer program product may
   comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable
20 program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The
   computer program product may comprise data structures, executable instructions, and
   other computer usable program code.          The computer program product may be
   embodied in removable computer storage media and/or non-removable computer
   storage media.     The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise,
25 without limitation, a paper tape, a magnetic tape, magnetic disk, an optical disk, a solid
   state memory chip, for example analog magnetic tape, compact disk read only memory
   (CD-ROM) disks, floppy disks, jump drives, digital cards, multimedia cards, and
   others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading, by the computing
   system 30, at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the
30 secondary storage 484, to the ROM 486, to the RAM 488, and/or to other non-volatile
   memory and volatile memory of the computing system 30. The processor 482 may
   process the executable instructions and/or data structures in part by directly accessing

                                               31
   the computer program product, for example by reading from a CD-ROM disk inserted
   into a disk drive peripheral of the computing system 30. Alternatively, the processor
   482 may process the executable instructions and/or data structures by remotely
   accessing the computer program product, for example by downloading the executable
 5 instructions and/or data structures from a remote server through the network
   connectivity devices 492. The computer program product may comprise instructions
   that promote the loading and/or copying of data, data structures, files, and/or executable
   instructions to the secondary storage 484, to the ROM 486, to the RAM 488, and/or to
   other non-volatile memory and volatile memory of the computing system 30.
10          In some contexts, a baseband signal and/or a signal embodied in a carrier wave
   may be referred to as a transitory signal. In some contexts, the secondary storage 484,
   the ROM 486, and the RAM 488 may be referred to as a non-transitory computer
   readable medium or a computer readable storage media.                 A dynamic RAM
   embodiment of the RAM 488, likewise, may be referred to as a non-transitory
15 computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power
   and is operated in accordance with its design, for example during a period of time
   during which the computer 980 is turned on and operational, the dynamic RAM stores
   information that is written to it.    Similarly, the processor 482 may comprise an
   internal RAM, an internal ROM, a cache memory, and/or other internal non-transitory
20 storage blocks, sections, or components that may be referred to in some contexts as
   non-transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.
            Example Electromagnetic Sensors and Sensor Arrangements
            FIGURES 15A, 15B, and 15C are block diagrams illustrating example sensors
   26 for passive electroseismic and seismoelectric surveying.         As illustrated in the
25 FIGURE 15A, sensor 1560 may be a particular embodiment of sensor 26 that includes
   one or more conductive elements 1502 and 1504, coupling network 1510, amplifier
   1508, and signal processing unit 1509.       Sensor 1560 may be capable of detecting
   electroseismic signals 22, as previously discussed above with respect to sensor 26.
   Sensor 1560 may output a signal representing detected electromagnetic signals 22.
30 Sensor 1560 may be installed and/or disposed in any appropriate housing, including
   weather-resistant housing, movable vehicles, and/or permanent installations, as is
   discussed above with respect to sensor 26.         Sensor 1560 generally operates by

                                              32
   comparing a stable reference voltage to a voltage measurement responsive to
   electromagnetic signals radiated from the ground. Accordingly, sensor 1560 may be
   configured to sense variations in the ground signal, which may be wholly or partially
   comprised of electromagnetic signals 22, as compared to a reference voltage.
 5         Conductive elements 1502 and 1504 are generally capable of measuring
   electromagnetic signals radiated from the ground. As illustrated conductive element
   1502 measures a stable reference voltage, while conductive element 1504 is generally
   capable   of measuring the vertical component of electromagnetic             signals 22.
   Conductive elements 1502, 1504 may represent any appropriate capacitive and/or
10 conductive plates or other sensing elements. As illustrated, conductive elements 1502
   and 1504 are capacitive plates that are arranged parallel to the surface of the Earth. A
   generally parallel arrangement to the surface of the Earth may allow conductive
   element 1504 to respond to and/or measure the vertical component of electromagnetic
   signals 22, which may represent a vertical electric field.        Similarly, conductive
15 element 1502 may be shielded from and/or configured not to measure the vertical
   component of electromagnetic signals 22.           In some embodiments, conductive
   elements 1502, 1504 may form a capacitor. Conductive elements 1502, 1504 may be
   a conductive metal such as copper, aluminum, or stainless steel.               Particular
   embodiments of conductive elements 1502, 1504 may have an area of several square
20 inches to about several square feet. As illustrated, conductive elements 1502, 1504
   may be separated from the Earth by a distance x. Distance x may be any appropriate
   distance in which conductive elements 1502, 1504 may be capable of responding to
   electromagnetic signals 22 transmitted into the air as a vertical electric field.
   Conductive elements 1502, 1504 may be configured relatively close to the ground.
25 For example, capacitive plates 1502, 1504 may be separated from the Earth by about
   10-12 inches in particular embodiments.       It should be noted, however, that while
   particular distances are discussed as example, any distance may be used in which
   conductive elements 1502, 1504 are capable of detecting electromagnetic signals 22.
   Conductive elements 1502, 1504 may each be connected to inputs of amplifier 1508.
30 Conductive element 1502 or conductive element 1504 may also be connected to
   ground.   It should be understood, however, that while a particular embodiment of
   conductive elements 1502 and 1504 is discussed herein, any appropriate conductive

                                             33
   elements may be used. For example, conductive element 1502 may represent a flat
   conductive plate disposed next to conductive element 1504, which may be an antenna.
   Appropriate antennas may include flat conductive plates at predetermined and/or
   fixed distances from the ground, concave conductive plates above the ground,
 5 multiple conductive plates with geometry to concentrate the signal, metal screen or
   grid of wire in any appropriate shape and/or geometry, monopole wire extending
   upwards from the ground, wire looped around a ferrite or steel core, or any other
   appropriate structure capable of being used as an antenna. Moreover, conductive
   elements 1502 and 1504 may represent any appropriate conductive elements arranged
10 with geometry to maximize self-capacitance.           Also, while illustrated as two
   components conductive elements 1502 and 1504 may be implemented as a single
   component. For example, conductive elements 1502 and 1504 may be implemented
   using a monopole wire extending upward from the ground and/or a battery
   arrangement.    In some embodiments, conductive elements 1502 and/or 1504 may
15 represent a conductive sphere.
           Amplifier 1508 represents any appropriate amplification circuit operable to
   compare signals generated by capacitive plate 1504 to reference signals generated by
   capacitive plate 1502. Amplifier 1508 may, for example, represent an operational
   amplifier. In some embodiments, amplifier 1508 may include any appropriate signal
20 conditioning circuits and/or components.      For example, amplifier 1508 may be
   capable of performing any one or more of the pre-processing and/or processing steps
   discussed above with respect to FIGURE 1. Amplifier 1508 may include appropriate
   inputs and outputs. As illustrated, capacitive plates 1502, 1504 are connected to the
   inputs.   The output may be connected to computing system 30.           For example,
25 amplifier 1508 may be capable of outputting detected electromagnetic signals 22 to
   computing system 30.       Amplifier 1508 may, in some embodiments, include
   appropriate analog-to-digital converters for digitizing detected electromagnetic
   signals 22.
           Signal processing unit 1509 represents any appropriate combination of
30 hardware, software, and other components operable to process the output of amplifier
   1508. For example, signal processing unit 1509 may be capable of implementing any
   one or more of the pre-processing steps discussed herein. Signal processing unit 1509

                                                 34
   may be hardware-implemented portion of sensor 1560 and/or may form a portion of
   computing system 30. Signal processing unit 1509 may include one or more notch
   filters, low pass filters, high pass filters, clamping circuits, sample and hold circuits,
   or any other appropriate signal conditioning circuits.
 5          Coupling network 1510 represents any appropriate network of components
   operable to couple conductive elements 1502, 1504 to amplifier 1508. As illustrated,
   coupling network 1510 includes a capacitor Cl, inductor Li, capacitor C2 and a
   resistor R arranged as a pi filter. The pi filter generally is operable to select a desired
   frequency band for amplifier 1508 and to exclude frequencies that may otherwise
10 saturate amplifier 1508. The resistor may be any appropriate resistance, and in some
   embodiments may be selected to set the time constant of the input circuitry of
   electromagnetic signals 22.       Resistor R may be connected across the inputs to
   amplifier 1508 in parallel.      Moreover, while a particular embodiment of coupling
   network 1510 is illustrated, any appropriate network components may be used. For
15 example, coupling network 1510 may include a matching resistor, a pi filter, a
   transformer,    a resonant network, or any combination             and number of these
   components.
            Shielding 1512 represents any suitable electromagnetic shielding. Shielding
   1512 may be configured to attenuate and/or prevent horizontal components of
20 electromagnetic fields from reaching conducting element 1514. Shielding 1512 may
   be configured to surround all or a portion of conductive elements 1502 and 1504. For
   example, as illustrated, shielding 1512 may comprise a structure that surrounds the
   top and sides of conductive elements 1502 and 1504.              Shielding 1512 may, for
   instance, be a cylindrical structure disposed vertically and that may be closed on at
25 least one end, such as the top end. Alternatively, shielding 1512 may represent a box
   or other appropriate enclosure.       Shielding 1512 may be made of any appropriate
   material    operable   to   attenuate  and/or    prevent  electromagnetic    signals  from
   propagating through the material. For example, shielding 1512 may be made of mu
   metal, conductive plates or foil, wire mesh, aluminized Mylar, insulating plates with
30 supplied static charge, and/or conductive plastic. Mu-metal may refer to one or more
   classes of nickel-iron alloys that are characterized by a high-magnetic permeability.
   Shielding 1512 may shield against static or slowly varying electromagnetic fields that

                                              35
   may otherwise interfere with the detection of electromagnetic signals 22. Shielding
   1512 may be electrically connected and/or coupled to an input to amplifier 1508. It
   should also be understood that in particular embodiments, shielding 1512 may or may
   not be appropriate and/or necessary.
 5         In operation, electromagnetic signals 22 may be a time varying, vertical
   electric field.  The interaction of electromagnetic signals 22 with capacitive plate
   1504 may produce a charge on conductive elements 1504. The other plate 1502 may
   be shielded from electromagnetic signals 22. Accordingly, signals generate by plate
   1502 may be interpreted as the reference voltage. Accordingly, a capacitive charge
10 across conductive elements 1502 and 1504 may result that corresponds to
   electromagnetic signals 22. In some embodiments, a resistor may be coupled in series
   with the charged conductive element 1502.         At appropriate times, the charged
   conductive plate 1502 may be discharged and thereby allow a time-varying field
   representative of electromagnetic signals 22 to be measured, processed, and/or
15 recorded by computing system 30. By using parallel conductive elements 1502, 1504,
   sensor 1560 may detect only the vertical components of electromagnetic signals 22 or
   other electromagnetic signals.      Accordingly, the parallel plate design may be
   configured not to respond to the horizontal components of electromagnetic signals 22.
   While two conductive elements 1502, 1504 are shown, sensor 1560 may include a
20 single plate appropriately grounded through one or more resistive devices and coupled
   to computing system 30.
           FIGURE 15B illustrates sensor 1562, which may be a particular embodiment
   of sensor 26 that includes coupling network 1511, shielding 1512, conductive element
   1514, electrode 1516, amplifier 1518, and signal processing unit 1519. Like sensor
25 1560, sensor 1562 may be capable of detecting electroseismic signals 22, as
   previously discussed above with respect to sensor 26. Sensor 1560 may also output a
   signal representing detected electromagnetic signals 22. Sensor 1560 may be installed
   and/or disposed in any appropriate housing, including weather-resistant housing,
   movable vehicles, and/or permanent installations, as is discussed above with respect
30 to sensor 26.
           Coupling network 1511 represents any appropriate network of components
   operable to couple conductive elements 1502, 1504 to amplifier 1508. As illustrated,

                                              36
   coupling network includes a resistor R of an appropriate resistance, which may be
   selected to set the time constant of the input circuitry of electromagnetic signals 22.
   Resistor R may be connected across the inputs to amplifier 1508 in parallel.
   Moreover, while a particular embodiment of coupling network 1511 is illustrated, any
 5 appropriate network components may be used. For example, coupling network 1511
   may include a matching resistor, a pi filter, a transformer, a resonant network, or any
   combination and number of these components.
           Shielding 1512 represents any suitable electromagnetic shielding, as discussed
   above with respect to FIGURE 15A. Shielding 1512 may be configured to surround
10 all or a portion of conducting element 1514. For example, as illustrated, shielding
   1512 may comprise a structure that surrounds the top and sides of conducting element
   1514. Shielding 1512 may be electrically connected and/or coupled to an input to
   amplifier 1518.      As noted above, it should be understood that in particular
   embodiments, shielding 1512 may or may not be appropriate and/or necessary.
15         Conductive element 1514 represents any appropriate conductive element
   operable to generate a stable reference signal shielded from one or more vertical
   and/or horizontal components of electromagnetic signals 22. Conductive element
   1514 may represent a conductive plate. As illustrated, conducting element 1514 is a
   conductive plate that includes multiple folds that form multiple parallel portions of
20 conductive element 1514.       Folding conductive element 1514 into multiple folded
   portions may allow conductive element 1514 to fit within a much smaller volume
   while also having a sufficiently large surface area to detect electromagnetic signals
   22. Additionally or alternatively, conductive element 1514 may include a conductive
   spine portion that forms a backbone or connection to multiple conductive fins.
25 Conductive element 1514 may be electrically connected and/or coupled to an input to
   amplifier 1518. Distance y represents any appropriate distance separating conductive
   element 1514 from the surface of the Earth. For example, in a particular embodiment,
   the distance may be about 24 inches.       In some embodiments, distance y may be
   relatively larger than distance z.
30         Electrode 1516 represents any appropriate electrical component configurable
   to form a connection with the Earth and/or detect one or more vertical portions of
   electromagnetic signals 22. Electrode 1516 is configured to form an electrical contact

                                                37
   with the Earth and may be disposed within the Earth. For example, electrode 1516
   may be disposed in a hole drilled into the Earth ranging from several inches to about
   10 feet to about 15 feet.      Additionally or alternatively, electrode 1516 may be
   disposed within the Earth at varying depths as needed to form an electrical coupling
 5 with the Earth.      In some embodiments, electrode 1516 represents a porous pot
   electrode.    Porous pot electrodes may include an appropriate salt and/or aqueous
   solution to form an electrical coupling with the Earth. Suitable salts useful with the
   electrodes may include, but are not limited to, copper sulfate, silver chloride,
   cadmium chloride, mercury chloride, lead chloride, and any combination thereof. In
10 some embodiments, electrode 1516 may include a conductive electrode such as rods
   that are driven into the ground and/or sheets of metal, mesh sheets, and/or wires
   buried in trenches or in shallow pits. Electrode 1516 may be made of a variety of
   conductive materials including, but not limited to, copper, stainless steel, aluminum,
   gold, galvanized metal, iron, lead, brass, graphite, steel, alloys thereof, and
15 combinations thereof. Electrode 1516 may be electrically connected and/or coupled
   to shielding 1512 and an input to amplifier 1518. Electrode 1516 may represent a
   porous pot, a conductive stake, a buried length of wire, a buried wire mesh, and/or a
   group of or combination of the aforementioned components.
           Amplifier 1518 and signal processing unit 1519 may be similar to amplifier
20 1508 and signal processing unit 1509. As illustrated, an input to amplifier 1518 is
   connected to shielding 1512 and another input is connected to conductive element
   1514. Coupling network 1511 includes a resistor R connected across the inputs to
   amplifier 1518. Electrode 1516 is also connected to the input connected to shielding
   1512.
25         In operation, electromagnetic signals 22 may be a time varying, vertical
   electric field. The interaction of electromagnetic signals 22 with conductive element
   1516 may cause and/or induce an electric response to be conducted and/or transmitted
   to the input to amplifier 1518.         Shielding 1512 may attenuate and/or prevent
   horizontal    electromagnetic   signals   from reaching   conductive   element    1514.
30 Accordingly, the signals detected by conductive element 1514 may represent a stable
   reference voltage while the signals detected by conductive element 1516 may
   represent may correspond to electromagnetic signals 22.          Amplifier 1518 may

                                              38
   perform appropriate signal processing and output detected electromagnetic signals 22
   to computing system 30. By using conductive element 1514 and shielding 1512,
   sensor 1562 may detect only the vertical components of electromagnetic signals 22.
   Accordingly, the design of sensor 1562 may be such that sensor 1562 does not
 5 respond to horizontal       components of electromagnetic        signals  22 or other
   electromagnetic signals.
            FIGURE 15C illustrates current sensor 1564, which may be a particular
   embodiment of sensor 26 that includes shielding 1512, electrode 1516, coupling
   network 1513, resistor 1526, amplifier 1528, signal conditioning unit 1529, and
10 battery 1530. Sensor 1564 may be capable of detecting electroseismic signals 22 may
   be capable of sensing signals 22 as a current across a sense resistor 1526. Sensor
   1560 may also output a signal representing detected electromagnetic signals 22.
   Sensor 1560 may be installed and/or disposed in any appropriate housing, including
   weather-resistant housing, movable vehicles, and/or permanent installations, as is
15 discussed above with respect to sensor 26.
            Shielding 1512 represents any suitable electromagnetic shielding, as discussed
   above with respect to FIGURE 15A. Shielding 1512 may be configured to surround
   all or a portion of battery 1530. For example, as illustrated, shielding 1512 may
   comprise a structure that surrounds the top and sides of battery 1530. Shielding 1512
20 may be electrically connected and/or coupled to an input to amplifier 1528.           In
   particular embodiments, shielding 1512 may additionally or alternatively surround all
   or a portion of coupling network 1513. As illustrated, shielding 1512 surrounds sense
   resistor 1524 of coupling network 1513. As noted above, it should be understood that
   in particular embodiments, shielding 1512 may or may not be appropriate and/or
25 necessary.
            Coupling network 1513 may include any appropriate components operable to
   couple battery 1530 to amplifier 1518. Coupling network 1513 may include similar
   components as discussed above with respect to FIGURES 15A and 15B.                   As
   illustrated, coupling network 1513 includes current sensor 1522 and sense resistor
30 1524.    Current sensor 1522 represents any appropriate current sensor operable to
   detect a current I generated by electrode 1516. As illustrated, current sensor 1522 is a
   current transformer that senses current as a voltage drop across a sense resistor 1524.

                                               39
   The current transformer may be a step-up transformer with, for example, up to 1000
   times gain or more.      Current sensor 1522 may represent any appropriate current
   sensing technologies, including Hall effect sensors, a senseFET, or other appropriate
   current sensor.
 5          Battery 1530 represents any appropriate voltage source operable to allow
   current to flow from ground across sense resistor 1524. Battery 1530 may have a
   large self-capacitance. Charge may leak from ground and attempt to charge battery
   1530. Battery 1530 may have a capacitance and/or resistance between the battery and
   ground, which may represent the capacitance and/or resistance of air. Electrode 1516
10 may be connected to a terminal of resistor 1524. Resistor 1524 may be connected
   between the terminals of current sensor 1522. One terminal of resistor 1524 may be
   connected to a terminal of battery 1530. Resistor 1526 may be connected in parallel
   with battery 1530. The outputs of current sensor 1522 may be connected to the inputs
   of amplifier 1528, which may provide an output representing electromagnetic signals
15 22. Amplifier 1528 and signal conditioning unit 1529 may be similar to amplifier
   1508 and signal processing unit 1509. It should be noted that, in some embodiments,
   battery 1530 may additionally or alternatively comprise a capacitor. It should also be
   noted that in some embodiments, a current amplifier may additionally or alternatively
   perform the functions of current sensor 1522, sense resister 1524, and amplifier 1528.
20          In operation, variations in ground potential caused by electromagnetic signals
   22 and Earth's background electromagnetic field 14 may induce a current I across
   sense resistor 1524 that may be detected by current sensor 1522. Amplifier 1528
   and/or signal conditioning unit 1529 may perform appropriate signal processing and
   output detected electromagnetic signals 22 to computing system 30.
25          It should be noted, however, that while FIGURES 15A, 15B, and 15C
   illustrate particular embodiments of sensors 26, sensors 26 may include any
   appropriate number and combination of components operable to detect portions of
   electromagnetic signals 22, such as various antennas or other sensing elements.
   Suitable antennas may include, but are not limited to, a parallel-plate capacitor
30 antenna comprising two or more parallel conducting plates; a single-plate capacitor
   antenna comprising one electrode electrically coupled to the earth; a monopole
   antenna comprising a conducting element, a dipole antenna comprising two

                                               40
   conducting elements; a multi-pole antenna comprising a plurality of conducting
   elements; a directional antenna comprising conducting elements arranged to augment
   a signal amplitude in a particular direction, and a coil antenna comprising one or more
   coils of wire, and/or any combination of suitable antennas. In some embodiments,
 5 sensor 26 may represent a concentric electric dipole (CED). The CED may include
   two electrodes in a concentric configuration.       For example, the electrodes may be
   generally circular dipoles with an inner circular electrode disposed concentrically
   within an outer circular electrode. The electrodes may generally be aligned in a plane
   that is parallel with the plane of the surface of the earth.       The CED may then
10 preferentially detect the vertical portion of electromagnetic signals 22 that are
   substantially perpendicular to the plane of the CED.            The vertical portion of
   electromagnetic signals 22 may create a detectable potential difference between the
   two electrodes.
           In some embodiments, the electromagnetic sensor 26 may comprise a pair of
15 electrodes in contact with the earth and disposed within the earth. For example, a first
   electrode may be disposed in a hole drilled into the earth ranging from about 10 feet
   to about 15 feet. A second electrode may be disposed within about 1 foot to about 3
   feet of the surface of the earth, and the pair of electrodes may be electrically coupled.
   In some embodiments, the pair of electrodes may be disposed within the earth at
20 varying depths as needed to form an electrical coupling with the earth.          In some
   embodiments, the electrodes may take the form of porous pot electrodes or other
   electrodes, such electrode 1516. In some embodiments, the electrodes may comprise
   a conductive electrode in contact with the earth and electrically coupled to a porous
   pot electrode.
25 Monitoring Drilling Operations
           FIGS. 3A and 3B are a flow chart of an example method according to the
   present disclosure for monitoring and controlling a drilling operation based on
   electroseismic sensing while performing a drilling operation, which is designated
   generally by the numeral 300. The method of FIGS. 3A and 3B may, for example, be
30 used to determine the location of the drill bit or other portions of a drillstring in a
   wellbore at a time. Example implementations may omit one or more of blocks 305
   355, while in other implementations additional steps not specifically shown in FIGS.

                                                41
   3A and 3B may be added. Still other implementations may perform one of more of
   blocks 305-355 in an alternate order from the order shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B.
            A wellbore may be a horizontal deviated wellbore, such as the one shown in
   FIG. 2. In other implementations, the wellbore is vertical or substantially vertical. In
 5 still other implementations, the wellbore one or more deviated segments include
   deviations between vertical and horizontal.
            In block 305, a first sensor array, including one or more electromagnetic
   sensors 26 and one more seismic sensors 28, are arranged to monitor the drilling
   operation.    In some implementations, the array of sensors is located on or near the
10 surface of the earth. In other implementations, one or more of the sensors are placed,
   at least in part, just beneath the surface of the earth. In still other implementations,
   one or more of the sensors are located in the borehole. The placement of the first
   sensor array is discussed in greater detail below with respect to FIGS. 5-12. Example
   arrays    of sensors include one or more seismic             sensors and one or more
15 electromagnetic sensors. In certain embodiments, the one or more seismic sensors
   and one or more electromagnetic sensors may be combined into a single unit.               A
   example single unit includes a geophone.
            After the array of sensors are arranged according to the expected drill path,
   and once drilling operations are under way, in block 310, the first sensor array receive
20 seismic and electromagnetic signals generated in the subterranean formation caused,
   at least in part, by the drilling operation. In particular, the first sensor array receives
   electromagnetic signals that are caused by the electroseismic or seismoelectric
   conversion of the seismic signals generated by the drilling operation.          A drill bit
   generates seismic and electromagnetic noise as it penetrates the earth to form a
25 wellbore.     Both the seismic and electromagnetic signals caused by the drilling
   operation travel to the first sensor array. The electromagnetic noise from the drill bit
   will travel to the electromagnetic sensors 26 in the first sensor array at the speed of
   light in the formation. By contrast, the seismic noise from the drill bit will travel to
   the seismic sensors 28 at the speed of sound in the formation. As will be discussed in
30 greater    detail below,   the difference in detection        time of the     seismic and
   electromagnetic signals caused by the drilling operation is indicative of the location of
   that drilling operation.

                                                  42
           In some implementations, system 10 includes a second sensor array located
   apart from the first sensor array. The second sensor array may include one or more
   the electromagnetic sensors 26 and one or more seismic sensors 28.              In some
   implementations, the second sensor array is located distant to the first sensor array, so
 5 that the effects of the drilling operation will be minimized in the second sensor array.
   The second sensor array may be placed apart from the first set of sensor at a distance
   substantially equal to or greater than a distance corresponding to the depth of the
   drilling operation. The second sensor array may be used by computing system 30 to,
   for example, remove background noise from signals received at the first sensor array
10 (block 315). In other implementations, the signals from the second sensor array are
   used to determine one or more properties of the subsurface formation away from the
   region where drilling is taking place. In certain example embodiments, this
   determination of properties of the subsurface formation is further based on signals
   from the first sensor array.
15         In some implementations, a seismic sensor 28, placed at substantial distance
   from the drilling operations, generates a time-dependent signal reflective of the
   electric field generated in the Earth/air environment. In other implementations, an
   electromagnetic sensor 26 placed at elevation above the surveyed field detects the
   electric field in the air, distinct from that emanating from the earth.      That time
20 dependent amplitude can be correlated by computing system 30 with the signals
   detected over a hydrocarbon field operation to model the subsurface. Alternatively,
   the time-dependence of the signal from the second set of sensors may be used by
   computing system 30 to filter the data from the first sensor array to remove the
   background portion of the signal.
25         In still other implementations, the second set of sensors are placed near, but
   still removed from, the first sensor array and used to remove, for example,
   infrastructure noise. The second set of sensors may be placed between the first set of
   sensors and the source of infrastructure noise. Alternatively, the second set of sensors
   may be placed at a location where the infrastructure noise generates any additional
30 signal that interferes with the first set of sensors. In one example implementation, the
   second set of sensors is located near a road to monitor and record the characteristic

                                               43
   noises generated by the road. These characteristic noises of the infrastructure are then
   removed from the signals detected by the first sensor array by computing system 30.
           Returning to Fig. 3, in block 320, computing system 30 may perform one or
   more cross-correlations of signals from sensors. In certain example embodiments, the
 5 cross correlation is performed between sensors in the first sensor array. In certain
   example embodiments, the cross correlation is performed between sensors in the
   second sensor array.      In certain example embodiments, the cross correlation is
   performed between sensors in the third sensor array, discussed below. In certain
   example embodiments, the cross correlation is performed between one sensor in the
10 first sensor array and a second sensor in the second sensor array. In certain example
   embodiments, the cross correlation is performed between one sensor in the first sensor
   array and a second sensor in the third sensor array. In certain example embodiments,
   the cross correlation is performed between two sensors from two of the first sensor
   array, the second sensor array, and the third sensor array
15         Certain implementations perform a cross correlation between time trace
   signals from two seismic sensors 28 in the first sensor array to reject noise. This
   cross-correlation may be used to determine the noise that may be dominated by
   surface waves. The result of the cross correlation is a measure of surface noise that is
   of minimal value to determine the behavior of the subsurface formation. In some
20 implementations, the result of this cross-correlation may be removed from the signal
   from the first sensor array by the computing system 30.
           The computing system 30 may further compute one or more cross correlations
   of signals from the electromagnetic sensors to enhance those signals.         In certain
   implementations,    the difference in electrical potential measured between two
25 electromagnetic sensors 26 is proportional to the horizontal electric field, while the
   potential measured at a single electromagnetic sensor 26 is proportional to the vertical
   electric field. The horizontal electric field contains information that is characteristic
   of the source of electromagnetic energy, while the vertical electric field contains
   information that is characteristic of the signal from the returned electroseismic
30 conversion. Then, if the difference in potential between two electromagnetic sensors
   26 is cross-correlated with the sum of the signals from two electromagnetic sensors
   26, then the result will be the crosscorrelation between the source signal and the

                                               44
   returned electroseismic conversion.       This crosscorrelation may suppress both the
   common noise between electromagnetic sensors 26 and the noise unique to one
   electromagnetic sensor 26. In some implementations, the resultant crosscorrelation
   provides the travel time to the target.
 5         Where implementations of system 10 include the first sensor array, the seismic
   or electromagnetic events that move progressively across the array can be suppressed.
   These systematic events might be surface seismic waves propagating from great
   distance or localized sources from infrastructure.       Once those systematic surface
   noises are removed, the noise on all sensors will be more symmetrical in the
10 horizontal plane.    The sum and difference of neighboring sensors in the first sensor
   array will then yield an even larger signal-to-noise ratio that is less directionally
   dependent.
           Returning to Fig. 3, in block 325, computing system 30 performs an auto
   correlation of one or more signals from sensors in one or more of the first sensor
15 array, the second sensor array, and the third sensor array. In some implementations,
   this auto correlation may determine a time to synchronize the seismic sensors 28 in
   the first sensor array. The drill bit generates seismic noise as it cuts into the
   subsurface formation. That seismic noise also generates an electromagnetic response
   through several mechanisms, including by electrokinetic coupling.        The generated
20 electromagnetic wave travels to the surface at the speed of light in the formation,
   which is much faster than the speed of the seismic wave generated by the drill bit.
   The computing system 30 performs an autocorrelation of the time trace of the signal
   received at an electromagnetic sensor 26 in the first sensor array to determine a time
   lag between the arrival of the electromagnetic signal and the subsequent arrival of the
25 seismic response associated with the same drilling event below the surface.          The
   autocorrelation may be performed on any sensor sensitive to the source and the return
   signal. For example, a geophone detects both electromagnetic and seismic energy.
   An autocorrelation on a geophone may detect the initial source EM signal and the
   subsequent return of the seismic wave. Example embodiments include one or more
30 capacitive sensors that, in turn, include an accelerometer. A capacitive sensor that also
   contains an accelerometer can detect the source and the return signals on both the
   capacitive sensor and the accelerometer.

                                               45
            When the computing system 30 then applies the autocorrelation operation to
   each time trace generated by each seismic sensor 28 or electromagnetic sensor 26 in
   the first sensor array, the resultant time traces have the properties of conventional
   active-source    seismic signals.      That is, the source electromagnetic signal in
 5 electroseismic surveying sets the time for the start of a signal recording in the same
   manner as a seismic source is synchronized with an array of geophones in
   conventional    seismic surveying to set the start of the source          signal.    The
   autocorrelation of the electroseismic signal then has all the properties of a single
   seismic time trace.      Example embodiments feature the simultaneous processing of
10 the electromagnetic and seismic portion of the electroseismic and/or seismoelectric
   signals. The measured electric field is used as the reference for the subsequent arrival
   of a seismic wave.
            The resulting pseudo-seismic time traces generated, at each electroseismic
   detector can be processed by all the methods known to those skilled in the art of
15 seismic processing. Such signal processing might include one or more of velocity
   filtering,   dip filtering, common-source-point      stacking, static  corrections,  and
   migration to determine the true location of a source.
            Returning to Figure 3, in block 330, in certain implementations the computing
   system 30 applies one or more filters to the signals from one or more of the first
20 sensor array, the second sensor array, and the third sensors array. In certain example
   embodiments, the computing system 30 applies one or more velocity filters. In certain
   example embodiments, the computing system 30 applies one or more spatial filters.
            Certain example velocity filters are performed in the f-k domain.        The f-k
   domain is a plot of the frequency (f) versus wavenumber (k). The wavenumber is the
25 reciprocal of the spatial wavelength. The frequency is reciprocal of the arrival time at
   a seismic sensor 28 or electromagnetic sensor 26. So a plot in f-k domain displays
   constant velocities as straight lines.
            Example spatial filter make use of the symmetry around the center line of the
   lines of constant electromagnetic field, for example as shown in FIGS. 5-12. Example
30 spatial filters make use of the vertical or horizontal components of the electric field
   and seismic polarization that reverse sign on opposite sides of the center line. In
   certain example embodiments, the vertical or horizontal components of the electric

                                              46
   field and seismic polarization are to stack data from multiple electromagnetic sensor
   26 or multiple seismic sensors 28. The difference in arrival time of the seismic signal
   as a function of distance from the center line can be used to determine downhole
   properties, such as the location of the drill bit or the location of the borehole. The
 5 difference in arrival time of the seismic signal as a function of distance from the
   center line, along with the arrival time of a seismic sensor 28 that is located directly
   over the well may be used to determine the a three-dimensional location of the drill
   bit or formation property.
            Example spatial filter may be used in certain example embodiments to
10 distinguish between fractures propagating in the horizontal or vertical directions when
   those fractures create predominantly horizontal or vertical dipolar structures.
            In certain    example  embodiments     the  electromagnetic    signal,  directly
   propagating from the well source, arrives at electromagnetic sensors 26 in the sensor
15 arrays at the same time. The seismic signal form the well source is received by the
   seismic sensors 28 at times related to the distance from the center line. Filtering can
   be performed based on the difference in arrival time between the electromagnetic and
   seismic signals. To the extent that there are paired electromagnetic sensors 26 and
   seismic sensors 28 at the same location (for example, a geophone), then each set of
20 paired detectors has its own time mark at zero time, based on the arrival time of the
   electromagnetic signal at the electromagnetic sensors 26. Such a detector with paired
   electromagnetic sensors 26 and seismic sensors 28 does not need to be synchronized
   with the other detectors in order to detect the "moveout" progression in arrival times.
   In certain example embodiments, each paired electromagnetic sensors 26 and seismic
25 sensors 28 is used to produce an autocorrelation.       The coputing system 30 may
   determine a systematic moveout, based, at least in part, on the autocorrelation lag
   shifts between paired electromagnetic sensors 26 and seismic sensors 28. In certain
   example embodiments, the peak in the autocorrelation corresponds to the arrival of
   the drill bit.     This peak in the autocorrelation will arrive at longer lags for
30 electromagnetic sensors 26 and seismic sensors 28 placed further from the center line.
            In certain example embodiments the computing system 30 stacks the detector
   signals from electromagnetic sensors 26 and seismic sensors 28 directly. In certain

                                              47
   example embodiments, after such stacking, the only remaining signal is the arrival of
   the electromagnetic pulse from depth.         In certain example embodiments, the
   amplitude of this pulse from depth is a measure of the electrical resistivity of the
   formation.
 5         As discussed above, the signal generated by the drill bit has both seismic and
   electromagnetic components.      The electromagnetic components travel to the earth's
   surface at the speed of light. That speed is much greater than the speed of travel for a
   seismic wave.     Depending on the distance between the sensors in the first sensor
   array, the electromagnetic modulation caused by the drill bit penetrating the earth will
10 appear at the electromagnetic sensors 26 in the first sensor array at approximately the
   same time. Adding the autocorrelated time traces from the electromagnetic sensors
   26 in the first sensor array emphasizes the signals arriving simultaneously.        The
   assumption    that electromagnetic    events arrive   substantially simultaneously    is
   equivalent to saying that the electromagnetic modulation has near infinite velocity,
15 which is much larger than the velocity of seismic events. The sum of all recorded
   electromagnetic signals then discriminates against seismic events that do not arrive
   simultaneously at all detectors.
           In certain implementations, detection of seismic arrivals is further refined by
   applying a filter to the observed seismic wave (block 330).         In certain example
20 embodiments, the filter is a velocity-specific filter.    For example, seismic waves
   traveling on the earth's surface have particularly slow velocities. A surface seismic
   wave manifests as a signal systematically crossing the array of detectors with
   relatively large time delays between the arrivals of surface waves at detectors. Two
   types of surface waves with different velocities are Rayleigh waves and Love waves.
25 Another type of near-surface wave is the so called Lamb waves. These waves travel
   in the subsurface, propagating parallel to the surface, in a depth of about 30 meters.
   Such waves are compressional waves, p-waves, which are guided by large seismic
   impedance contrasts near the Earth's surface. Such waves are often detected after an
   earthquake. These waves travel at a velocity faster than Rayleigh waves but slower
30 than bulk seismic waves.       Seismic waves traveling in the bulk of the earth, "body
   waves," have higher velocities.    Such waves will arrive at the seismic detectors 26
   with systematic time shifts that are smaller than the times shifts associated with

                                                 48
   surface waves and Lamb waves. Two types of body waves are the so called p-waves
   or compressional waves and the so called s-waves or shear waves.
           In certain implementations, seismic signals traveling at different velocities are
   separated    by    applying   a   "dip"    filter.    This  filter is   applied   in  the
 5 frequency/wavenumber domain. The frequency/wavenumber domain applies to the
   seismic sensors 26. The wavenumber is proportional to the reciprocal of the spacing
   between detectors on the array.      It is further known that surface and body seismic
   waves have certain characteristic velocities specific to each geological environment.
   Knowledge of these velocities is used to define velocities that will preferentially
10 distinguish between waves traveling on the surface from those traveling in the
   subsurface. For example, the velocity filters at infinite velocity for the EM waves, at
   Rayleigh and Love velocities for surface waves, at Lamb velocities for near-surface
   waves, and at p-wave and s-wave velocities for the body waves, and the filter thereby
   effectively isolates the various types of waves.
15          Returning to Figure 3, in block 335, in certain implementations the computing
   system 30 performs signal processing on signals from one or more of the first sensor
   array, the second sensor array, and the third sensor array.
           In one example embodiments, the computing system performs common
   source-point processing.     "Common-source-point" refers to the relevant signals that
20 originate at the drill bit and then travel to seismic sensors 28. Here, the geometry of
   the expected signal from the drill bit is illustrated in FIGS. 5-8.      Certain example
   signals also include spherically symmetric components.       The signals detected by the
   fist array can therefore be processed as vertical and horizontal components of the
   seismic response to yield the depth and horizontal location of the drill bit.
25         For example, FIG. 5 shows that the vertical component of the seismic response
   changes sign on opposite sides of the symmetry point, which, in this case is the
   location of the drill bit. The separation between the maximum amplitudes on the two
   sides of the symmetry point is equal to the depth of the drill bit. The point of zero
   crossing locates the horizontal position of the drill bit.
30         Processing the autocorrelation time traces provides the needed information.
   After velocity filtering and retaining the vertical displacement signal, the seismic
   arrival times and amplitudes at each detector are determined. A plot of amplitude-

                                               49
   versus-horizontal distance determines the point of zero amplitude in both the x and y
   horizontal directions.     In FIG. 5, Z is the vertical coordinate.    The signals from
   sensors that are symmetrically located on opposite sides of this zero amplitude
   location are then summed to suppress noise. The result is a curve passing through
 5 zero at the origin and displaying a maximum at a distance equal to one half of the
   depth of the drill bit. Such curves are shown at the top of FIG. 5.
            This geometrical calculation can be repeated for the horizontal component of
   the seismic wave. As shown in FIG. 8, the horizontal component of the seismic wave
   passes through zero above the location of the drill bit and the distance between the
10 maxima is approximately equal to the depth. In one implementation, the horizontal
   amplitude of the seismic response is measured directly using a three component
   seismic sensor 28. In another implementation the horizontal amplitude of the seismic
   response is measured by computing the difference between the amplitudes detected on
   neighboring electromagnetic sensors 26.          Similar processing can be applied to
15 spherically symmetric components as illustrated in Figures 7 and 8, as discussed
   below.
            Other example embodiments perform one or more other types of signal
   processing at block 335. For example, signal processing of block 335 may include
   seismic processing may include time series analysis by Fourier methods that include
20 one or more of auto and cross correlation, convolution and deconvolution, Wiener
   filtering, multi-spectral analysis, and Hilbert transforms.
            Other example signal processing method may be used in the time series
   analysis are also applied to the data collected from one or more sensors of one or
   more of the first sensor array, the second sensor array, and the third sensor array. In
25 certain example embodiments, one or more of the first sensor array, the second sensor
   array, and the third sensor array include a two-dimensional array of geophones or
   accelerometers.     In certain example embodiments featuring such an arrangement of
   sensors, two-dimensional Fourier transforms and velocity filtering may be performed.
            In certain example embodiments, arrays of seismic sensors 26 are employed to
30 stack data in various ways to enhance particular signal properties. In certain example
   embodiments, For example, processing might be done to add signals from one or
   more of the first sensor array, the second sensor array, and the third sensors that come

                                              50
   from a particular location between source and receiver, such as midway between
   source and receivers.      This may be referred to as common midpoint stacking
   processing (CMP). In other example embodiments, signal processing includes one or
   more of stacking with regard to a common source (CSP), a common receiver location
 5 (CRP), with respect to a fixed depth, or common depth point stacking (CDP).
           Seismic signals arrive at the various seismic sensors 28 in one or more of the
   first sensor array, the second sensor array, or the third sensor array at different times.
   This difference in time between the arrival of seismic signals may be referred to as
   "moveout."     Example signal processing methods such as f-k filtering and moveout
10 time-shift corrections are used for this purpose. In certain example embodiments,
   certain seismic velocities are observed. These seismic velocities may include one or
   more of the velocity between two adjacent subterranean layers, the interval velocity,
   the effective velocity for a wave traveling outward to successive receivers, the
   moveout velocity, and the velocity used after all velocity corrections are used, which
15 may be referred to as the stacking velocity.       Additionally, surface seismic waves
   include Rayleigh and Love waves to designate the wave polarization. These waves
   travel slowly compared to bulk waves. Analysis of signals from one or more of the
   first sensor array, the second sensor array, and the third sensor array may be used to
   separate the arrival times for surface waves relative to bulk waves. In other example
20 embodiments, sensor arrays that includes one or more accelerometers or geophones
   that measure three orthogonal components of vibration, may separate surface waves
   from bulk shear and compressional waves based on a wave's polarization and
   velocity.
           When multiple seismic waves arrive at multiple detectors, the non-linear
25 nature of the propagation path might lead to an inaccurate location of a structure in
   the subsurface. In certain example embodiments, the signal processing (block 335)
   includes migration to attempt to correct for this non-linear propogation.
           Example processing methods that may be performed at block 335 rely on the
   wave nature of a seismic wave.         Seismic waves are reflected, transmitted, and
30 refracted by the well-known Snell's laws. Waveform processing differs from much of
   electroseismic processing in that the wavelengths in the electromagnetic portion of an
   electroseismic signal is much larger than any structures of interest. In this case it may

                                               51
   be appropriate to think of the electroseismic propagation problem in a low-frequency
   limit where there are no well-defined interface reflections.
            Based on the signal received from one or more of the first sensor array, the
   second sensor array, and the third sensor array, and subsequent processing, as
 5 described above with respect to blocks 315-335, the computer system 30 determines
   one or more drillstring properties. One example drillstring property is the location of
   the drill bit. In certain example embodiments the location of the drill bit relative to a
   location at the surface or to a location within the subsurface formation.          Other
   example drillstring properties include flexing or corkscrewing of drill pipe. In certain
10 example embodiments, the computer system 30 monitors the changes in drillstring
   properties over time. Changes in the drillstring properties over time may indicate
   whether or not drillstring components are functioning properly, or not. For example,
   change in drillstring properties over time may indicate that a portion of the drillstring
   has failed.
15          Based on the signal received from one or more of the first sensor array, the
   second sensor array, and the third sensor array, and subsequent processing, as
   described above with respect to blocks 315-335, the computer system 30 determines
   one or more formation properties (block 340).          These formation properties may
   include one or more formation properties above, below, or in front of the drill bit.
20 One example formation property is the presence of fluids in the subsurface formation.
   Another example formation property is the presence of a fault in the subsurface
   formation. Another example formation property is a location of a change in formation
   layers. Other example formation properties include one or more of the hardness of
   the rock in the subsurface formation and the permeability or porosity of the
25 subsurface formation. Other example formation properties include the proe pressure
   of the formation.
            In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 determines the
   location of the drill bit in the formation based, at least in part, on the one or both of
   the first, second, and third arrays of sensors and the results of one or more of blocks
30 325-335.     For example, during directional drilling the commuting system 30 may
   initially determine the location of the drill bit based on one or more surveys
   performed before the drilling operation and based on signals from one or more survey

                                               52
   sensors located along the drill path. In certain embodiments, the computing system
   30 modifies the calculated drill bit location based, at least in part, on the signals from
   one or both of the first and second sensor array or the results of one or more of blocks
   325-335.
 5         In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 images the
   formation above, below, or beside the drill bit based, at least in part, on the signals
   from one or more of the first sensor array and second sensor array and the results of
   one or more of blocks 325-335.
           In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 identifies the
10 locations of fluids, such as hydrocarbons, Helium, carbon dioxide, or water, in the
   formation based, at least in part, on the or more of signals from one or more of the
   first sensor array and second sensor array and the results of one or more of blocks
   325-335.
           In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 identifies the
15 locations of faults based, at least in part, on signals from one or more of the first
   sensor array and second sensor array and the results of one or more of blocks 325
   335. The identification of the location of these faults may then be used to alter the
   drill path or otherwise alter the drilling operation. In still other implementations, the
   computing system 30 determines where to initiate a completion or well enhancement
20 procedure, such as a fracturing stage based, at least in part, on the signals from one or
   both of the first sensor array and second sensor array and the results of one or more of
   blocks 325-335.
           In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 monitors the
   progress of an enhanced oil recovery operation based, at least in part, on the signals
25 from one or both of the first sensor array and second sensor array and the results of
   one or more of blocks 325-335.
           In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 monitors other
   wells operations based, at least in part, on the signals from one or both of the first
   sensor array and second sensor array and the results of one or more of blocks 325
30 335.
           In certain example embodiments, the computing system 30 performs quality
   control by identify fractures or damage created by well operations operation based, at

                                               53
   least in part, on the signals from one or both of the first sensor array and second
   sensor array and the results of one or more of blocks 325-335.
           In certain example embodiments, the determination of one or more formation
   properties includes determining an image of the subsurface formation above, in front
 5 of, behind, or below the drill bit.
           In still other example implementations, the computer system 30 determines
   one or more properties of an adjacent or distant well in the subsurface formation.
   This may include the path of the adjacent or distant well in the subsurface formation.
   Other example embodiments may determine one or more properties of the subsurface
10 formation around the adjacent or distant well, such as the presence, location, or
   amount of one or more fluids, such as hydrocarbons, Helium, carbon dioxide, or
   water, in the formation around the adjacent or distant well based, at least in part, on
   the signals from one or more of the first sensor array and second sensor array and the
   results of one or more of blocks 325-335.
15         In block 350, the computing system 30 may receive signals from a set of one
   or more third sensors. In certain example embodiments the signals from the third
   sensor array include electromagnetic         signals, which may be cause by the
   electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals caused by the drilling
   operation. In some example implementations, at block 350 the computing system 30
20 determines or updates one or more of a drillstring property and a formation property
   based, at least in part, on the one or both of the first, second, and third arrays of
   sensors and the results of one or more of blocks 325-335.               In one example
   embodiment, the computing system updates one or more drillstring properties or
   formation properties based on a difference in time between electromagnetic signals
25 received at one one or more of the first sensors array, the second sensor array, and the
   third sensor array.
           In block 355, in certain example embodiments the computing system 30
   further tests the electrical conductivity during the drilling operation. In general, the
   electrical conductivity is another way to detect changes in fluid content and lithology.
30 In certain implementations, the electrical conductivity is correlated with a seismic
   response of one more seismic sensors 28 in the first sensor array. In one example
   implementation, in combination with an electroseismic survey during drilling, an

                                                54
   electrical voltage is applied between the well and a distant electrode.           In certain
   example implementations, one electrical contact is made to one or more of the well
   head, the drillpipe, and the drill bit. A second electrode may be located such that a
   current is created through a region of interest. The second electrode may be located at
 5 a second position on the drilling equipment, and/or on a neighboring well casing or
   drilling equipment, and/or on infrastructure such as pipes and/or fences, and/or the
   second electrode may be an electrode placed on the surface of the Earth. In certain
   example embodiments, the surface electrode is located between approximately 10 feet
   and 20,000 feet from the well location.     One or more electroseismic sensors 26 in the
10 first sensor array are configured to detect an electrical voltage contemporaneously
   with and/or at a time different from the seismic data collection.         Alternatively, the
   electromagnetic sensor may be separate from the seismic sensor 26. When the drill
   bit encounters a region of high electrical conductivity, such as a water pocket, the
   resistivity will decrease along with the electroseismic response in the electroseismic
15 sensors 26 in the first sensor array. The combined effect favors the change in fluid
   conductivity.
            In block 360, the computing system 30 alters the drilling operation based on
   the determined drill bit location from the previous steps.              In some example
   implementations, the computing system 30 causes the change in weight-on-bit of the
20 drilling. In other implementations, the computing system 30 actives a mud motor in
   the drillstring to alter the direction of the drillstring. In still other implementations,
   the computing system 30 causes the drillstring to come off bottoms and trip to a
   location. In other example embodiment the computing system 30 alters the rate of
   penetration of the drilling operation.
25          The placement of the first sensor array will be discussed with respect to FIGS.
   5-12. FIG. 5 is a cross-section view in a plane containing a well 505 with both vertical
   and horizontal sections. The drill bit 510 is in a horizontal portion of the wellbore
   505 within reservoir 515. As the drill bit 510 drills in the subsurface formation, the
   acoustic noise from a drill bit 515 generates seismic and electromagnetic noise. In
30 one implementation, the noise may take the form of dipolar radiation.             In certain
   implementations, these noise signals travel to the surface in such a way that the
   symmetries of the noise signals, as received at the surface, determine the depth of the

                                               55
   drill bit 515.     In figure 5, the maximum horizontal electric field and seismic
   amplitudes occur at 30 degrees from the head of drill bit 515, as shown. In this
   implementation, the distance between maxima is equal to the depth. The difference
   between the signals recorded at +/- 30 degrees is the sum of the maximum amplitudes
 5 and removes common signals from both detectors. The depth of the drill bit 515 can
   also be determined based on the travel time of the seismic signal to the surface. The
   seismic travel time increases with offset, i.e., with distance from the center line over
   the drill bit.   Although the wellbore 505 of FIG. 5 has a horizontal section, other
   wellbores 505 will be vertical or substantially vertical. Still other wellbores 505 will
10 include one or more deviated sections with deviations between vertical and horizontal.
           FIG. 6 is a cross-section view in a plane containing a well 505 where the plane
   of view is perpendicular to the plane of FIG. 5.        Note that the electric field and
   seismic amplitudes exhibit an identical behavior as in FIG. 5. The first sensor array
   can therefore be arranged to capture a three-dimensional image of a point source of
15 seismic or electromagnetic noise. The third dimension location of the drill bit 510 is
   determined by symmetrically placed sensors in a plane perpendicular to the horizontal
   well.     These geometrical relationships apply to any acoustic/seismic dipolar
   disturbance generated at a point in the subsurface, for a "point" with a radius smaller
   than the first seismic Fresnel zone of a seismic wave at the measured frequency and
20 depth.
           Example arrangements of sensors take many forms, including, for example,
   arrays on a rectangular grid and other arrangements that are commonly used in
   seismic imaging. Additionally, an array may be formed by linear arrangements of
   sensors parallel and/or perpendicular and/or at an angle to the path of the drilling
25 operation.     Additionally, sensors may be placed at random locations of known
   position.
           FIG. 7 is a cross-section view in a plane containing a well 505 that has been
   drilled into reservoir 515 and fractures 705 have been induced in the reservoir 515.
   The top of FIG. 7 illustrates the electric field caused by fluid flowing out of fracture
30 705 and through a production casing. In certain implementations, fluid flowing out of
   a fracture 705 creates a streaming potential by electrokinetic coupling. In the case of
   fracture generation, the seismic and electrical amplitudes are expected to be

                                                 56
   substantially larger than amplitudes generated by the flow of fluid in production. In
   the fracturing process, fluid flows into the reservoir 515 to form fracture 705. The
   fracture generation process results in substantial energy being applied to the reservoir
   515 to fracture the rock.          This applied energy creates both a seismic and
 5 electroseismic response that can be detected by the array of sensors.
           The situations described in FIGS. 5-7 assume vertical mechanical or fluid
   motion, which is equivalent to a vertical dipole source. The drill bit 510, however,
   also has horizontal motion similar to the vertical motion. Likewise, the fracture 705
   has horizontal amplitudes that may as large as, or larger than, the vertical
10 displacement of the fracture 705.        This might occur because the expansion of a
   fracture in the direction of minimum stress generates more rock movement, a larger
   volume of rock movement, than does the vertical propagation of a fracture 705. This
   is also the case in fluid flow in fractures that connect subterranean structures with
   extensive horizontal branches.
15                 A mechanical disturbance with horizontal and vertical components can
   be split into orthogonal horizontal and vertical polarizations, if it is not spherically
   symmetrical.     Equivalently, in certain example implementations the signal can be
   separated into horizontal and vertical dipoles.
                   As shown in FIG. 8, for horizontal polarizations, the signal geometry is
20 the same as for the vertical polarization; however, the signal geometric signatures are
   reversed. For horizontal source polarizations, the vertical components of the electric
   field and seismic amplitude on the surface flip signs on opposite sides of the
   symmetry line or point.        The horizontal components of the electromagnetic and
   seismic signals at the surface are continuous with a maximum at the symmetry point.
25 The time of arrival of a seismic response, combined with the signal geometry, define
   the location of the drill bit 510 for either or both polarizations.
           In certain implementations, changes of sign on opposite sides of the symmetry
   point can be measured, as shown in FIGS. 6-8. The geometrical properties of the
   signal can therefore be determined by deploying an array of sensors on the surface.
30 These sensors may include one or more electric-field sensors, magnetic-field sensors,
   one-component seismic sensors, two-component seismic sensors, or three component
   seismic sensors.

                                                57
            FIGS. 9 and 10 show example expected vertical electric field amplitudes
   generated by a horizontal electric dipole at depth.            The horizontal distance is
   expressed in units of the depth to the target. FIG 10 shows the offset distance over
   which the electric field is at least one half of the maximum electric field. The electric
 5 field changes sign at negative offsets, i.e., on the other side of the point or line of
   origin of the dipole.
            Based on the expected results shown in FIG 10, for a 10,000 foot deep target,
   example sensors may be placed at 2,000 feet (depth to target) to 19,000 feet (depth to
   target) from a vertical plane passing thought the later. In this range of distances, the
10 signal amplitude at the sensors will be at least half the peak amplitude. The peak
   amplitude of this example is at 7,000 feet.
            In certain example implementations, for the horizontal electric dipole at depth,
   the peak amplitude of the vertical electric field occurs at a distance of 0.7 times the
   depth of the target. This corresponds to an angle of 44 degrees between the vertical
15 direction and the direction of maximum amplitude. For a vertical dipole at depth, the
   horizontal electric field on the surface is similar in appearance. The position of
   maximum amplitude for the vertical dipole occurs at a distance of 0.5 times the depth
   to target, which corresponds to an angle of 30 degrees. The case of the vertical dipole
   is illustrated in Figures 1 and 2.
20          FIGS. 11 and 12 are similar to FIGS. 9 and 10, but are for an example
   spherically symmetric source of electromagnetic energy at depth.            The horizontal
   electric field reverses sign on the opposite side of the symmetry point. The figures
   show that the offset dependence has a different shape for the dipole and spherical
   cases. The difference in shape is important. If the source is a vertical or horizontal
25 dipole, the electric field is large at smaller offsets. In this case, a smaller footprint of
   the first sensor array on the surface will enable signal detection if the source has a
   dipole configuration.
   Monitoring and Controlling Drilling Operations Using Percussive Drilling
            In certain example embodiments, the drill bit is controlled to produce a
30 detectable pattern in the resultant seismic energy received at seismic sensors 28. For
   example, the drilling operation (block 310) may be a percussive drilling operation in
   which a controlled vibration is imparted to the drillstring during the drilling operation.

                                               58
   An example of such a percussive drilling operation is discussed in U.S. Patent No.
   8,517,093, entitled "System and Method for Drilling Hammer Communication,
   Formation Evaluation and Drilling Optimization," by Todd W. Benson, the contents
   of which are incorporated by reference herein. In certain example embodiment of the
 5 controlled-vibration percussive drilling, the vibration is controlled to occur at a known
   sequence.     Example sequences are in the family of sequences known as Golay
   complementary sequences. Other example sequences are Barker sequences. In other
   example embodiments, the percussive drill bit is programmed to provide an impulse
   to the drill bit in a controlled sequence. In certain example embodiments, the drill bit
10 is programmed to provide a quasi-periodic or pseudo-random sequence of pulses. In
   certain example embodiments, the drill bit is programmed to provide a sequence with
   varying amplitude. In certain example embodiments, the drill bit is programmed to
   provide a sequence with varying frequency.
           The frequency of the vibrations induced in the drillstring may be controlled to,
15 for example, enhance the signal-to-noise ratio of a resulting signal at a seismic sensor
   28.    In certain implementations of the controlled-vibration percussive drilling, the
   amplitudes of the vibration induced in the drillstring are also controlled. This may be
   used for example, to increase the signal-to-noise ratio in signals received at seismic
   sensors 28. Vibrations resulting from the controlled-vibration percussive drilling are
20 received at one or more of the seismic sensors 28. The computer system 30 performs
   correlation of the series of signals that were imparted to the drillstring during the
   controlled-vibration percussive drilling with the signals received at the seismic
   sensors 28. In some example implementations, the result of this correlation is used to
   determine the location of the drill bit in the formation. The result of this correlation
25 may further be used to image the formation above, below, or beside the drill bit.      The
   result of this correlation may further be used to identify the locations of fluids, such as
   hydrocarbons, Helium, carbon dioxide, or water, in the formation. The result of this
   correlation may further be used to monitor the progress of an enhanced oil recovery
   operation. The result of this correlation may further be used to monitor other wells.
30 The result of this correlation may further be used to perform quality control by
   identify fractures or damage created by well operations.

                                                59
           The result of this correlation may further be used for geosteering of the drill
   bit to a location in the formation that is likely to produce greater amounts of fluid. In
   other example embodiments, the determination of the drill bit location is used for
   geosteering around faults.
 5         FIG 16 is a flow chart of an example method according to the present
   disclosure for surveying a formation. In block 1605, the system performs a survey of
   subsurface earth formation 16 before the drilling operation.         In certain example
   embodiments, the survey of block 1605 is a passive-source electromagnetic survey, as
   described above with respect to FIGS. 1 and 2. Thereafter, the system monitors the
10 drilling operation (block 300), as discussed with respect to FIGS. 3A and 3B. In
   certain example embodiments, the system further performs a survey after the drilling
   operation (block 1610).      In some embodiments, blocks 1605, 300, and 1610 are
   performed using a common set of electroseismic sensors 26 and seismic sensors 28,
   such as one or more of the first sensor array, the second sensor array, and third sensor
15 array, as discussed above.
            In certain example embodiments, the survey of block 1610 is a passive-source
   electromagnetic survey, as described above with respect to FIGS. 1 and 2. In certain
   example embodiments, further drilling operations may be performed after block 1610.
   For example, corrections to the drill path may be made based on the results of the
20 survey after the drilling operation.
   Monitoring and Controlling Fracturing Operations
           FIGS. 13A and 13B are flow charts of an example method according to the
   present disclosure for monitoring and controlling a fracturing operation based on
25 electroseismic sensing while performing the fracturing operation.        The method is
   referred to generally by the numeral 1300. The method of FIGS. 13A and 13B may,
   for example, be used to determine the orientation and progression of fractures in a
   subterranean formation at a time. Example implementations may omit one or more of
   the blocks show in in 13A and 13B, while other implementations additional steps not
30 shown in FIGS. 13A and 13B. Still other implementations may perform one of more
   of block in FIGS. 13A and 13B in an alternate order from the order shown in FIGS.
   13A and 13B.

                                                60
            The processing described in FIGS. 13A and 13B is similar to the processing
   described above with respect to FIGS. 3A and 3B, with common elements sharing
   common numbering with blocks from FIGS. 3A and 3B. The differences between the
   two will be discussed below.
 5          In block 1305, a first sensor array, including one or more electromagnetic
   sensors 26 and one more seismic sensors 28 are arranged to monitor the fracturing
   operation.     In certain example implementations, the seismic sensors 28 and
   electromagnetic sensors 26 may be part of a single unit, such as a geophone. In
   general, fractures will be initiated over a finite length of cased well.         In some
10 implementations the array of sensors are located on or near the surface of the earth.
   In other implementations, one or more of the sensors are placed, at least in part, just
   beneath the surface of the earth.         In still other implementations, one or more
   electromagnetic sensors 26 or one more seismic sensors 28 are located at a location in
   or along the borehole. Example systems include one or more electromagnetic sensors
15 26 with contact measurement to measure the electrical potential on the inside of a
   borehole casing to thereby detect an electroseismic signal. The placement of the first
   sensor array is discussed in greater detail with respect to FIGS. 5-12 and, in particular,
   FIG. 7.
            In block 1310, the computer system 30 receives one or more seismic and
20 electromagnetic signals generated in the subterranean formation during the fracturing
   operation. The fracturing operation generates seismic and electromagnetic noise as it
   penetrates the earth to form a wellbore. Both the seismic and electromagnetic signals
   caused by the fracturing operation travel to the first sensor array. The electromagnetic
   noise from the drill bit will travel to the electromagnetic sensors 26 in the first sensor
25 array at the speed of light in the formation. The electrometric signal may be cause by
   the electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of the seismic signal from the
   fracturing operation. By contrast, the seismic noise from the drill bit will travel to the
   seismic sensors 28 at the speed of sound in the formation. In some implementations,
   processing signals generated by fracturing is similar to processing signals caused by
30 the drilling of the borehole. In some implementations, fractures may occur along a
   finite length of well casing and the fractures may spread out a substantial distance in
   volume. The relevant length scale for these issues is the radius of the first seismic

                                                61
   Fresnel zone. In some implementations this dimension may be 100 feet or more.
   Fractures are normally formed over a length of casing that is sealed by packers or
   plugs. If the casing interval is much longer than the radius of the first Fresnel zone,
   then the source is interpreted as a finite body, rather than a point source.
 5          In some implementations, for a finite, linear body, the geometry of the signals
   illustrated in FIGS. 5-12 will no longer be symmetrical in the x-y plane. Instead, in
   certain implementations, the use of the common-source-point processing will have
   different dimensions in the x and y directions. In other implementations, however, the
   fracturing operation may be modeled as a point source, as with the drilling operation.
10          In block 1315, the computer system 30 determines one or more of a fracture
   property and a formation property based, at least in part, on signals from one or more
   of the first array or sensors, the second sensor array, the third sensor array, and one or
   more processing steps 315-335. In one example embodiments, the computer system
   30 determines one or more properties of the formation, such as the presence and
15 location of fluids, including hydrocarbons or Helium in the subsurface formation. In
   general, the computer system 30 may determine the formation properties as described
   above with respect to block 345. If a drillstring is present in the formation during
   fracturing, the computer system 30 may determine drillstring properties, as described
   above with respect to block 340.
20          In certain example implementations, the computer system 30 determines one
   or more properties of the fracture being initiated or other fractures. In one example
   embodiment, the computer system 30 determines the orientation of the fracture. In
   one example embodiment, the computer system 30 determines the extent of the
   fracture. In one example embodiment, the computer system 30 determines the density
25 of the fracture. In one example embodiment, the computer system 30 determines the
   porosity or permeability of the fracture. In one example embodiment, the computer
   system 30 determines the connectivity of the fracture. In one example embodiment,
   the computer system 30 determines the size or shape of the fracture.
                In block 1320, the computer system 30 tests electrical conductivity during
30 the fracturing operation. In general, fractures are expected to be complex structures
   with high surface area and high electrical conductivity. Because the fractures increase
   the area of the exposed fluid in the formation, the measured conductivity increases as

                                                62
   the fracture propagates in the subsurface formation.         On the other hand, in some
   implementations, poor fractures are detectable based on small changes in resistivity
   while the fracture is initiated or propagated.          In some implementations, this
   conductivity testing will qualitatively assess fracturing as a function of the position in
 5 the well. This measurement may also reveal low hydrocarbon saturations when the
   resistivities are low and the measured electroseismic amplitude is small.
            In block 1325, the computer system 30 alters the fracturing operation based on
   one or more of the determine fracture property and the determine formation property.
   In one example embodiment, that computer system 30 alters the fracturing operation
10 based, at least in part, on the determined fracture orientation and propagation.        In
   some example implementations, the location or orientation of the fracture is altered.
   In other implementations, the fracturing pressure is altered. In some implementations,
   the fracturing fluid or the proppant is altered.
            In certain implementations, passive electroseismic sensing is used to image a
15 well environment before and/or after fracturing. The resulting imaging may be used
   to determine one or more issues involving the quality of the fracturing. For example,
   the computer system 30 may determine the size of the fractures, the location of one or
   more bypassed areas, fracturing in unintended formations, or water invasion.
            FIG 17 is a flow chart of an example method according to the present
20 disclosure for surveying a formation. In block 1705, the system performs a survey of
   subsurface earth formation 16 before the fracturing operation.         In certain example
   embodiments, the survey of block 1705 is a passive-source electromagnetic survey, as
   described above with respect to FIGS. 1 and 2. Thereafter, the system monitors the
   fracturing operation (block 1300), as discussed with respect to FIGS. 13A and 13B.
25 In certain example embodiments, the system further performs a survey after the
   fracturing operation (block 1710).      In some embodiments, blocks 1705, 1300, and
   1710 are performed using a common set of electroseismic sensors 26 and seismic
   sensors 28.     In certain example embodiments, the survey of block 1710 is a passive
   source electromagnetic survey, as described above with respect to FIGS. 1 and 2. In
30 certain example embodiments, further fracturing operations may be performed after
   block 1710. For example, a new fracture may be initiated at a location based on the
   results of one or both of blocks 1300 or 1710.        In still other embodiments, one or

                                               63
   more subsequent surveys are performed to determine the performance of the
   fracturing operation over time. For example, the subsequent surveys may determine if
   the induced fractures are closing or altering shape over time.         In certain example
   implementations, the time between the time between surveys may be measured in
 5 seconds (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
   21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43,
   44, 45, 46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59 seconds). In other
   example implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in minutes (for
   example, 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
10 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
   46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59 minutes). In other example
   implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in hours (for example,
   1,2,3,4,5,6,7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, or 23 hours).
   In other example implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in
15 days (for example, 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
   22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, or 31 days). In other example implementations, the
   time between surveys may be measured in months (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
   9, 10, 11, or 12 months). In still other example implementations, the time between
   surveys may be measured in years. For example, the computer system 30 may receive
20 regular measurements from the set of electroseismic sensors 26 and seismic sensors
   28.
   Monitoring and Controlling Production Operations
           FIGS. 14A and 14B are flow charts of an example method according to the
   present disclosure for monitoring and controlling the production of fluids, such as
25 hydrocarbons, Helium, carbon dioxide, or water, from a subsurface formation. The
   method of FIGS. 14A and 14B may, for example, be used to determine the magnitude
   of production from a subsurface formation and the locations of depletion of that
   formation. Example implementations may omit one or more of the blocks shown in
   in 14A and 14B, while other implementations additional steps not shown in FIGS.
30 14A and 14B.      Still other implementations may perform one of more of block in
   FIGS. 14A and 14B in an alternate order from the order shown in FIGS. 14A and
   14B.

                                                64
            The processing described in FIGS. 14A and 14B is similar to the processing
   described above with respect to FIGS. 3A and 3B, with common elements sharing
   common numbering with blocks from FIGS. 3A and 3B. The differences between the
   two will be discussed below.
 5          In block 1405, a first sensor array, including one or more electromagnetic
   sensors 26 and one more seismic sensors 28 are arranged to monitor the production
   operation. In some implementations the array of sensors are located on or near the
   surface of the earth. In other implementations, one or more of the sensors are placed,
   at least in part, just beneath the surface of the earth. The placement of the first sensor
10 array is discussed in greater detail with respect to FIGS. 5-12 and, in particular, FIG.
   7.
            In block 1410, the computer system 30 receives one or more seismic and
   electromagnetic signals generated in the subterranean formation during the production
   operation. Processing the data from fluid production differs from processing drill-bit
15 and fracturing data. First, the flow of fluids will be distributed over a length of pipe
   that will not, in general, be a point source. In some example implementations, the
   flow of fluid out of fractures might create a large electric field without a large seismic
   response.      In some example implementations, the pressure and electric field
   fluctuations are distributed within the production fluid and over the length of the
20 production casing. A single event, from a single fracture, will be masked by many
   events, from many producing fractures.
            In the case of long horizontal wells, the first sensor array may resolve flow
   through sections of pipe.       In certain implementations, these flow rate changes are
   shown as changes in electric field with distance.
25       In certain implementations, the computer system 30 receives one or more seismic
   and electromagnetic signals generated in the subterranean formation during a pressure
   test. Due to the nature of such a test, this situation may provide usable electroseismic
   data to the first sensor array.
         In block 1415, the computer system 30 tests electrical conductivity during the
30 production     operation.         During production     the electrical  conductivity   will
   systematically change as the reservoir is depleted. In certain implementations, one or

                                                65
   more electromagnetic sensors are used to measure the electroseismic response and the
   electrical conductivity along the production pipe can reveal zones of poor productivity.
          In block 1420, the computer system 30 alters production operations based on the
   measurements from the first sensor array.       In some implementations, this includes
 5 altering a pumping pressure or shutting in the well. In some implementations, this
   includes altering a.rate of producrtion of the well. In still other example embodiments
   the system may change from convention production to an enhanced oil recovery
   method.
   Subterranean Reservoir Zone Evaluation
10          FIG. 18 is a flow chart of an example method according to the present
   disclosure for evaluating one or more reservoir properties.           In certain example
   embodiments the system may be used to monitor the production of fluids from a
   subterrenean formation.      In still other embodiments, the system may be used for
   locating areas of fluid production from a subterranean reservoir. The methods of FIG.
15 18 may, for example, be used to determine one or more properties of a producing
   reservoir, including determining the delineation (e.g., edges) of one or more
   reservoirs.   Or the method of FIG. 5 may be used to identify a new reservoir for
   production. Example implementation may omit one or more of blocks 1805-1835,
   while other implementations may include additional steps not specifically shown in
20 FIG. 18. Still other implementations may perform one of more of blocks 1805-1835
   in an alternate order from the order shown in FIG. 18.
            In block 1805, a first sensor array, are arranged to monitor production of
   fluids, such as hydrocarbons, from a reservoir in the subterranean formation.          In
   certain example embodiments the first sensor array includes one or more
25 electromagnetic sensors 26. In still other embodiments, the first sensor array may
   include one or more seismic sensors 28.         In some implementations, the array of
   sensors is located on or near the surface of the earth. In other implementations, one or
   more of the sensors are placed, at least in part, just beneath the surface of the earth.
   Example sensors include a ground portion that is placed in the Earth or that is
30 attached to a grounded element. Certain of the electromagnetic sensors 26 may be
   permanently installed at desired locations. In still other implementations, one or more
   of the sensors are located in the borehole.

                                               66
            In block 1810, the electromagnetic sensors 26 receive a set of electromagnetic
   signals that are generated by the electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of
   seismic signals in the subterranean formation. The seismic signals in the subterranean
   formation include those generated by the movement of fluids from a reservoir in the
 5 subterranean formation during production. The seismic signals in the subterranean
   that are generated by the movement of fluids from a reservoir in the subterranean
   formation during production may be referred to as type of passive source seismic
   signals.
            In certain example implementations, in block 1815, the first sensor array is
10 repositioned to new locations. For example, the one or more of the sensors in the
   array of sensors may be moved as production of the reservoir progresses to more
   accurately monitor the ongoing production. In other implementations, however, the
   first sensor array is not moved between one or more surveys.
            Returning to FIG. 18, in block 1820, at a second time, the electromagnetic
15 sensors 26 receive a set of electromagnetic signals that are generated by the
   electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of passive source seismic signals in the
   subterranean formation.        Certain implementations receive subsequent sets of
   electromagnetic signals that are generated by the electroseismic or seismoelectric
   conversion of passive source seismic signals in the subterranean formation over time.
20 In some implementations, the location of the sensors is changed between subsequent
   surveys, while in other implementations the sensors are left at the same location. In
   certain example implementations, the time between the time between surveys may be
   measured in seconds (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
   17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39,
25 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59 seconds).
   In other example implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in
   minutes (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
   21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43,
   44, 45, 46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59 minutes). In other
30 example implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in hours (for
   example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, or
   23 hours). In other example implementations, the time between surveys may be

                                                 67
   measured in days (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
   18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, or 31 days).         In other example
   implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in months (for example,
   1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months). In still other example implementations,
 5 the time between surveys may be measured in years. A person of ordinary skill in the
   art would further recognize that the time between surveys may be measured in a
   combination of the above units.          In still other example embodiments, the time
   between surveys may be based on a user requested time.
                     In block 1825, the computing system 30 uses one or more the received
10 sets of electromagnetic signals to determine one or more reservoir properties.         In
   certain example embodiments, the reservoir properties include the presence, location,
   and amount of fluids in the reservoir. Example fluids may include one or more of
   hydrocarbons, water, helium, or carbon dioxide.        Other example reservoir properties
   include one or more of pore pressure or permeability. In certain implementations, the
15 computer system 30 relies on one or more available seismic surveys and production
   surveys to determine one or more reservoir properties.
            In one example embodiment, the computing system 30 determines the
   locations of one or more zones of production. In other implementations, the computer
   system 30 further relies on one or more available seismic surveys and production
20 surveys to determine zones of production.            In some example implementations,
   computing system 30 compares the survey results for a zone not currently under
   production with a zone currently under production to determine an expected
   production capability of the zone not currently under production.
            In block 1830, the computing system 30 uses one or more the received sets of
25 electromagnetic signals to determine one or more delineations (e.g., edges) of the
   formation.
            Based on the determined zone of production (block 1825) and/or the
   determined locations of reservoir delineations (block 1830), the system may alter
   production operations (block 1835). For example, the system may determine that one
30 or more infill or step-out wells should be drilled to enhance production.           Other
   enhanced oil recovery (EOR) operations may include chemical flooding, miscible
   displacement, and thermal recovery. In certain example implementations, the operator

                                               68
   will perform hydraulic fracturing and the administration of a proppant to the
   subterranean formation.
   Long-Term Monitoring of Fluid Production from a Reservoir
           FIGS. 19A and 19B are a flow chart of an example method according to the
 5 present disclosure for monitoring the fluid production from a subterranean reservoir.
   The methods of FIGS. 19A and 19B may, for example, be used to evaluate the sweep
   efficiency of production operations. Or the methods of FIGS. 19A and 19B may be
   used to identify candidates for EOR operations. Example implementation may omit
   one or more of blocks 1905-645, while other implementations may include additional
10 steps not specifically shown in FIGS. 19A and 19B. Still other implementations may
   perform one of more of blocks 1905-1945 in an alternate order from the order shown
   in FIGS. 19A and 19B.
           In block 1905, a first array one or more sensors, including one or more
   electromagnetic sensors 26, are arranged to monitor production of fluids, such as one
15 or more of hydrocarbons, water, helium, or carbon dioxide from a reservoir in the
   subterranean formation. In some implementations, the array of sensors is located on
   or near the surface of the earth. In other implementations, one or more of the sensors
   are placed, at least in part, just beneath the surface of the earth. Example sensors
   include a ground portion that is placed in the Earth or that is attached to a grounded
20 element.   The grounded connectors can be installed conveniently by permanently
   burying electrodes at surveyed locations. Continuous or periodic measurements can
   be made by connecting the required electronics to these buried electrodes. In other
   implementations, the grounded connections can also be made to certain infrastructure,
   such as pipes, fences, and wells. In implementations to monitor the reservoir over a
25 long period of time, it is often advantageous to permanently install the
   electromagnetic sensors 26 at desired locations. In still other implementations, one or
   more of the sensors are located in the borehole.
           In block 1910, the array of sensors receives a set of electromagnetic signals
   that are generated by the electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of passive
30 source seismic signals in the subterranean formation. The array of sensors continues
   to receive second and subsequent signals over time.               In certain example
   implementations, the time between the time between surveys may be measured in

                                                 69
   seconds (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
   21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43,
   44, 45, 46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59 seconds). In other
   example implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in minutes (for
 5 example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
   24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
   46,47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, or 59 minutes). In other example
   implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in hours (for example,
   1,2,3,4,5, 6,7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, or 23 hours).
10 In other example implementations, the time between surveys may be measured in
   days (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
   22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, or 31 days). In other example implementations, the
   time between surveys may be measured in months (for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
   9, 10, 11, or 12 months). In still other example implementations, the time between
15 surveys may be measured in years. For example, the computer system 30 may receive
   regular measurements from the sensor array.              Based on the results of these
   measurements, the computer system 30 monitors the production and movement of
   fluids from the reservoir (block 1920).
            In certain implementations, the formation will undergo EOR to enhance
20 production.    This may include flooding the formation with water, steam, or other
   fluids. In such a situation, the sensor array may be used to track the flood in the
   formation by comparing signals from the sensor array during the flooding operation
   with prior sensor measurements.       A change in electroseismic amplitude of the signal
   from the sensor array will correspond to an interface between a hydrocarbon, such as
25 oil, and a flooding agent, such as water, steam, or chemical flood. This is due to the
   difference in electroseismic response between the hydrocarbon or other fluid, on the
   first hand, and the flooding agent, on the second hand.
            In certain implementations, the method further includes determining an
   amount of fluid that can be produced from the reservoir based, at least in part, on the
30 signals from the sensor array (block 1930). The electroseismic amplitudes will vary
   based on the fluid content of the subsurface.         In certain implementations, a rock
   saturated with hydrocarbon has different electroseismic amplitudes than a rock

                                               70
   saturated with EOR fluid. These differing amplitudes enable the computer system 30
   to track an interface between two fluids in the formation. In certain implementations,
   the interface progression is correlated with the amount of oil produced. In such an
   implantation, the interface movement is a measure of the sweep efficiency and of the
 5 volume of the reservoir interval.
           In block 1935, the method includes detecting bypassed fluids. As discussed
   above in block 1930, the computer system 30 tracks the progression of the interface
   between fluids in the formation.     In certain example situations, the interface has a
   complex shape.      For example, when the interface between oil and an EOR fluid
10 progresses in a complex geometrical shape, this may indicate the existence of
   bypassed fluids or complexity in the reservoir.          In certain implementations, the
   bypassed fluids yield large electroseismic amplitudes.        In certain implementations,
   complexity in the reservoir rock that does not contain oil should yield small
   electroseismic amplitudes.
15         The method further includes detecting unintended fluid migration in block
   1940.    In certain implementations, this process is used for quality control.        The
   electroseismic amplitude at the reservoir depth, near drilling operations, and/or
   producing facilities, may indicate unintended hydrocarbon migration away from a
   reservoir, production operations, or drilling facilities. In certain implementations, the
20 sensor measurements are useful to track the migration of pollutants near the Earth's
   surface.
           Based, for example, on the detection of bypassed fluid (block 1930), the
   system may alter production operations (block 1945).               For example, when a
   production front proceeds in an irregular fashion, it may reveal substantial volumes of
25 unswept fluid. In certain implementations, the unwept fluids manifest as areas of high
   electroseismic amplitude that do not change over time. Comparing the electroseismic
   properties of these unswept regions with the electroseismic properties known regions
   of good productivity, the computer system 30 may determine locations where there is
   high probability for producing additional fluids. The computer system 30 may then
30 determine that one or more infill or step-out wells should be drilled to enhance
   production.    Other enhanced oil recovery (EOR) operations may include chemical
   flooding,   miscible   displacement,   and thermal       recovery.   In certain  example

                                              71
   implementations,     the    operator  will  perform   hydraulic   fracturing    and     the
   administration of a proppant to the subterranean formation.
   Detection of Reservoir Connectivity
           FIG. 20 is a flow chart of an example method according to the present
 5 disclosure for determining the connectivity of reservoir segments based on passive
   electroseismic surveying.     The methods of FIG. 20 may, for example, be used to
   determine the connectedness of a reservoir interval. Example implementation may
   omit one or more of blocks 2005-2020, while other implementations may include
   additional steps not specifically shown in FIG. 20. Still other implementations may
10 perform one of more of blocks 2005-2020 in an alternate order from the order shown
   in FIG. 20.
           In block 2005, the method includes placing a reference electromagnetic sensor
   26 at or near the wellhead and one or more electromagnetic sensors 26 and seimic
   sensors 28 at a distance from the wellhead.         The reference sensor may be an
15 electromagnetic sensor 26. In other example embodiments, the reference sensor is a
   seismic sensor 28.       In other implementations, electromagnetic or seismoelectric
   emissions are used as a time zero reference to which the signals from the one or more
   electromagnetic sensors 26 at a distance from the wellhead are compared by the
   computer system 30.
20         In block 2010, the method further includes receiving             a first    set of
   electromagnetic signals generated by the electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion
   of seismic signals in the subterranean formation that are caused, at least in part, by the
   production operation.      These seismic signals may be referred to a passive source
   seismic signals.
25         In block 2015, the method includes cross correlating the signals from the
   reference sensor and the one or more electromagnetic sensors 26 and seismic sensors
   28 located away from the wellhead. In certain example embodiment, the signal to
   noise ratio of monitoring the production operation is enhanced by correlating noisy
   targets with hydrocarbon production. The fluid pressure in the reservoir interval varies
30 with production time and the number of producing wells.               Although all the
   overburden and basement are influenced by production pressure changes, the pressure
   changes in the reservoir create first-order electro-osmotic         conversions.       The

                                              72
   mechanical noise from production operations travels at the speed of sound through the
   rock.    The fluid pressure noise travels at the speed of pressure diffusion, which is
   much slower than the speed of sound.
           Based on the results of the cross correlation operation (block 2015), the
 5 computer system 30 then determines one or more reservoir properties in block 2020.
   I one example implementation, the computer system 30 determines the connectedness
   of reservoir intervals. The pressure diffusion is indicative of the connectedness of the
   reservoir interval. In certain implementations, if two wells are not connected by a
   continuous fluid path, then the pressure diffusion is cut off and no streaming potential
10 develops between wells.      In certain implementations, a rapid drop of correlation
   amplitude with offset from the well indicates a disconnected reservoir interval. In
   some situations, a disconnection might be caused by a fault or change in rock
   properties. A disconnected interval stops enhanced oil recovery.
           In certain implementations, the computer system 30 further accounts for the
15 frequency spectrum of the propagating pressure diffusion. The time lag between an
   event in a well and its mirror image in a distant part of a reservoir is long. In addition,
   the frequency is shifted to lower frequencies by the high-frequency filtering of
   pressure diffusion. At large distances from a well the information is lost. At shorter
   distances, the frequency dependence is an indicator of permeability and producibility.
20 Placement of Sensors
         The embodiments of the present disclosure shown in FIGS 3A, 3B, 13A, 13B,
   14A, and 14B, 16, 17, 18, 19A, 19B, and 20 may use an array of electromagnetic and
   seismic sensors.    Other implementation may use only one or a small number of
   electromagnetic or seismic sensors.    One example embodiment uses one or a small
25 number of electromagnetic or seismic sensors to perform quality control for drilling a
   horizontal well. In such an implementation the intended path for the horizontal well is
   presumably known. One electromagnetic or seismic sensor is placed at the intended
   well termination.    As the drill progresses, the electromagnetic sensor signal or the
   seismic sensor signal will increase in amplitude and the arrival time will decrease. In
30 some implementation, large changes in amplitude may signify that the drill is passing
   through a wet zone, a change in lithology, or that it has moved outside of the reservoir.
   Non-monatomic progress in arrival time may signal deviation from the intended path.

                                                73
   In other implementations, two or more electromagnetic or seismic sensors are placed
   along the prospective route of the well.        The data collected in this way will be
   complementary to standard data collected during drilling.
            In another implementation, one or more electromagnetic or seismic sensors are
 5 installed at fixed or several locations to indicate when an enhanced recovery operation
   has crossed a particular point in space. For example, in a water flood, it might be
   useful to know when the water is approaching a producing well.                 In some
   implementations, an electromagnetic or seismic sensor that is monitoring the reservoir
   will show a rapid change in amplitude when the hydrocarbon/water interface passes
10 beneath it.
            Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated
   otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A,
   B, or both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
   Moreover, "and" is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or
15 indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly
   or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
            This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations,
   and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary
   skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the appended claims
20 encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations, and modifications to the
   example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
   comprehend. Moreover, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system
   or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
   configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function
25 encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular
   function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or
   component is so adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or
   operative.
            Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed
30 or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in
   combination with other devices.           In one embodiment, a software module is
   implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer-readable

                                              74
   medium containing computer program code, which can be executed by a computer
   processor for performing any or all of the steps, operations, or processes described.
           Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing
   the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required
 5 purposes, and/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively
   activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer.           Such a
   computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or
   any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and coupled to a
   computer system bus.       Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the
10 specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing
   multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.
           Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments,
   a myriad of changes, variations, alterations, transformations, and modifications may
   be suggested to one skilled in the art, and it is intended that the present invention
15 encompass such changes, variations, alterations, transformations, and modifications as
   fall within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover, while the present disclosure
   has been described with respect to various embodiments, it is fully expected that the
   teachings of the present disclosure may be combined in a single embodiment as
   appropriate.
20         Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.
25         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
   taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art
   forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia.

                                                 75
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
            1.      A method for monitoring production of fluids from a subterranean
   formation, the method comprising:
 5          receiving, from a first sensor array at a first time, a first set of electromagnetic
   signals generated by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals
   caused, at least in part, by the production of fluid from the subterranean formation;
            receiving, from the first sensor array at a second time, a second set of
   electromagnetic signals caused by a seismic wave and generated by an electroseismic
10 or seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals caused by the production of fluid from
   the subterranean formation;
            determining one or more reservoir properties based, at least in part, on the first
   and second sets signals received from the first sensor array;
            wherein the production of fluids from the subterranean formation causes the
15 movement of the fluids in the subterranean formation that, in tum, generates one or
   more seismic signals and further wherein the one or more electromagnetic signals are
   caused by electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of the one or more seismic
   signals; and
            wherein the first sensor array is located at or on the surface of the Earth.
20
            2.      The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more reservoir
   properties based, at least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the
   first sensor array further comprises:
            determining one or more zones of production based, at least in part, on the first
25 and second sets signals received from the first sensor array.
            3.      The method of claim 2, wherein determining one or more zones of
   production is further based, at least in part, on one or more seismic surveys of the
   subterranean formation.
30
            4.      The method of claim 2, wherein determining one or more zones of
   production is further based, at least in part, on one or more production surveys.

                                                76
            5.      The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more reservoir
   properties based, at least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the
   first sensor array further comprises:
            determining one or more delineations of one or more reservoirs based, at least
 5 in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the first sensor array.
            6.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
            receiving, from a reference sensor located at the wellhead at the third time, a
   third set of electromagnetic signals; and
10          determining a reservoir property based, at least in part, on the first and third
   sets of electromagnetic signals.
            7.      The method of claim 6, further comprising:
   performing a cross correlation of the first set of electromagnetic signals with the third
15 set of electromagnetic signals.
            8.      The method of clam 1, wherein determining a reservoir property based,
   at least in part, on the first and second sets of electromagnetic signals further
   comprises:
20          determining a connectedness of a reservoir interval based, at least in part, on
   the first and second sets of electromagnetic signals.
            9.      The method of clam 1, wherein determining a reservoir property based,
   at least in part, on the first and second sets of electromagnetic signals further
25 comprises:
            measuring a flow rate of fluid in the subterranean formation.

                                               77
           10.     A method for monitoring          a subsurface formation, the method
   comprising:
           receiving, from a first sensor array, one or more seismic signals, wherein
   production of fluids from the subsurface formation causes movement of the fluids in
 5 the subsurface formation that, in tum, generates the one or more seismic signals;
           receiving, from the first sensor array, one or more electromagnetic signals
   wherein the one or more electromagnetic signals are caused by electroseismic or
   seismoelectric conversion of the one or more seismic signals;
           determining a property of the subsurface formation based, at least in part, on
10 the signals received from the first sensor array; and
           wherein the first sensor array of seismic sensors is located at or on the surface
   of the Earth.
           11.     The method of claim 10, wherein determining a property of the
15 subsurface formation based, at least in part, on the signals received from the first
   sensor array includes:
           determining an amount of fluid produced at a location based, at least in part,
   on the signals received from the first sensor array.
20         12.     The method of claim 10, further comprising:
           altering the production operation based on the determined property of the
   subsurface formation.
           13.     The method of claim 10, further comprising:
25         receiving, from an array of sensors at a first time, a first set of electromagnetic
   signals generated by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals
   caused, at least in part, by the production of fluid from the subterranean formation;
           receiving, from the array of sensors at a second time. a second set of
   electromagnetic signals generated by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion
30 of seismic signals caused, at least in part, by the production of fluid from the
   subterranean formation;

                                                 78
            monitoring the production of fluids from the subterranean formation based, at
   least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the first sensor array;
   and
            wherein the array of sensors are arranged to monitor the production operation.
 5
            14.     The method of claim 10, wherein the sensors in the array of sensors
   include an electrode configured to be electrically coupled to a ground, the electrode
   responsive to a vertical electromagnetic signal, the vertical electromagnetic signal
   generated by a subsurface earth formation in response to an electroseismic or
10 seismoelectric conversion of a passive electromagnetic source signal.
            15.     The method of claim 10, wherein the subterranean formation includes
   a fluid, the method further comprising:
            injecting the subterranean formation with a flooding agent; and
15          determining an interface between the fluid and the flooding agent based, at
   least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the first sensor array.
            16.     The method of claim 10, wherein the subterranean formation includes
   a fluid, the method further comprising:
20          determining an amount of fluids that can be produced from the subterranean
   formation based, at least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the
   first sensor array.
            17.     The method of claim 10, further comprising:
25          detecting bypassed fluids in the subterranean formation based, at least in part,
   on the first and second sets signals received from the first sensor array.
            18.     The method of claim 17, further comprising:
            performing one or more infill or step out drilling operations based on the
30 detected bypassed fluids in the subterranean formation.

                                                 79
            19.      The method of claim 10, further comprising:
            detecting unintended fluid migration in the subterranean formation based, at
   least in part, on the first and second sets signals received from the first sensor array.
 5          20.      A system comprising:
            a first sensor array to detect one or more electromagnetic signals, wherein the
   first sensor array is located at or on the surface of the Earth;
            a processor;
            a memory comprising non-transitory executable instructions, that, when
10 executed cause the processor to:
                     receive, from the first sensor array at a first time, a first set of
   electromagnetic signals generated by an electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion
   of seismic signals caused by the production of fluid from the subterranean formation;
                     receive, from the first sensor array at a second time, a second set of
15 electromagnetic signals caused by a seismic wave and generated by an electroseismic
   or seismoelectric conversion of seismic signals caused by the production of fluid from
   the subterranean formation;
                     determine one or more reservoir properties based, at least in part, on
   the first and second sets signals received from the first sensor array; and
20          wherein the production of fluids from the subterranean formation causes the
   movement of the fluids in the subterranean formation that, in turn, generates one or
   more seismic signals and further wherein the one or more electromagnetic signals are
   caused by electroseismic or seismoelectric conversion of the one or more seismic
   signals.
25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
