                                       ABSTRACT
A fixture for use in affixing a liner system to the inside surface of a container used in
the handling of bulk solids is disclosed, the fixture including: an arrangement of teeth to
clamp the liner at said inside surface in use; a fastening means to fasten the fixture at
the container; and a bevelled region.

        2/6
           56  58    50
60
   52             54
      FIG.2
            56       50
                       54
60
      FIG.3

                                                 1
   A LINER SYSTEM FOR A CONTAINER USED IN HANDLING BULK SOLIDS
                                          Technical Field
 5           This specification relates to liner systems for use with containers used in
   handling bulk solids, such as digger buckets for mobile front end loaders, or for dump
   truck bodies or other containers for bulk solid materials which are intended to be
   repeatedly emptied.
10                                        Back2round Art
             In prior art digger buckets or other bulk solids containers, it is common to
   encounter a problem known as 'hang-up'. This is the name given to the situation where
   the container retains an amount of the solid material in a corner or side of the container
15 which is never discharged when the container is loaded and unloaded.             Instead, an
   amount of the solid material is retained, thereby causing problems such as a loss of
   capacity of the container volume (as some capacity is actually never discharged), and
   potential unbalancing of the container as it swings back from the unloading position
   (and the remaining solids moves inside of the container).          The undischarged solid
20 material may comprise a sticky ore material, may be wet or damp, or may contain a lot
   of clay which can add to the stickiness of the particulate ore.
                                    Summary of the Disclosure
25           In a first aspect, there is disclosed a container for use in the handling of bulk
   solids, the container being generally rigid and including a liner system, the liner system
   including a flexible liner which lines at least a region of the inside surface of the
   container, the liner being affixed to the container such that when the container is moved
   in a direction to empty the container of bulk solids in use, at least a region of the liner is
30 free to move away from the inside surface of the container wherein the liner is
   dimensioned to have a smaller volume than the container to thereby cause stretching of
   the liner when the container is loaded with bulk solids.

                                                2
             In certain embodiments, the liner is at least partially formed from a resilient
   material.
             In certain embodiments, the liner is at least partially formed from an
 5 elastomeric material.
             In certain embodiments, the liner has a laminated layered structure.
             In certain embodiments, the laminated structure includes at least two different
10 types of elastomeric material.
             In certain embodiments, the laminated structure includes a layer of elastomeric
   material which is relatively flexible, and a layer of elastomeric material which is
   relatively wear resistant.
15
             In certain embodiments, at least one of the layers includes a join, and the join
   is overlapped by another layer.
             In certain embodiments, a partial vacuum between the container body and the
20 liner is created during unloading of the container.
             In a second aspect, there is disclosed a container for use in the handling of bulk
   solids, the container being generally rigid and including a liner system, the liner system
   including a flexible liner which lines at least a region of the inside surface of the
25 container, the liner being affixed to the container such that when the container is moved
   in a direction to empty the container of bulk solids in use, at least a region of the liner is
   free to move away from the inside surface of the container; wherein the liner is affixed
   to the container by one or more fixtures arranged to clamp the liner so as to line the
   inside surface of the container; wherein the liner is applied in sections, the sections
30 being affixed to the container by way of said fixture(s) located at an in use upper edge
   region of the sections and arranged so that the sections at least partially overlie one
   another to provide a non-continuous flexible liner at the inside surface.

                                                  3
              In certain embodiments, the fixture includes an arrangement of teeth to clamp
   the liner.
              In certain embodiments, the or each fixture includes a bevelled region.
 5
              In certain embodiments, the liner includes a layer of a substantially
   inextensible material in the region where the liner is engaged by the fixture.
              In a third aspect, there is disclosed a container for use in the handling of bulk
10 solids, the container being generally rigid and including a liner system, the liner system
   including a flexible liner which lines at least a region of the inside surface of the
   container, the liner being affixed to the container such that when the container is moved
   in a direction to empty the container of bulk solids in use, at least a region of the liner is
   free to move away from the inside surface of the container; wherein the liner is affixed
15 to the container by one or more fixtures arranged to clamp the liner so as to line the
   inside surface of the container; wherein the or each fixture includes a bevelled region.
              In certain embodiments, the liner includes a layer of a substantially
   inextensible material in the region where the liner is engaged by the fixture.
20
              In certain embodiments, the liner is applied in sections, the sections being
   affixed to the container by way of said fixture(s) located at an in use upper edge region
   of the sections and arranged so that the sections at least partially overlie one another to
   provide a non-continuous flexible liner at the inside surface
25
              In a fourth aspect, there is disclosed a container for use in the handling of bulk
   solids, the container being generally rigid and including a liner system, the liner system
   including a flexible liner which lines at least a region of the inside surface of the
   container, the liner being affixed to the container such that when the container is moved
30 in a direction to empty the container of bulk solids in use, at least a region of the liner is
   free to move away from the inside surface of the container; wherein the liner is affixed
   to the container by one or more fixtures arranged to clamp the liner so as to line the
   inside surface of the container; wherein the liner includes a layer of a substantially

                                                 4
   inextensible material in the region where the liner is engaged by the fixture.
            In certain embodiments, the or each fixture includes a bevelled region.
 5          In certain embodiments, the liner is applied in sections, the sections being
   affixed to the container by way of said fixture(s) located at an in use upper edge region
   of the sections and arranged so that the sections at least partially overlie one another to
   provide a non-continuous flexible liner at the inside surface.
10          In a fifth aspect, there is disclosed a fixture for use in affixing a liner system to
   the inside surface of a container used in the handling of bulk solids, the fixture
   including:- an arrangement of teeth to clamp the liner at said inside surface in use;- a
   fastening means to fasten the fixture at the container; and - a bevelled region.
15          In certain embodiments, the teeth lie in a plane and the underside of the
   bevelled region has a planar surface; the planar surface lies in a plane which is inclined
   with respect to the plane of the teeth.
            In certain embodiments, the plane of planar surface is inclined with respect to
20 the plane of the teeth by approximately 5 angle degrees.
            Other aspects, features, and advantages will become apparent from the
   following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying
   drawings, which are a part of this disclosure and which illustrate, by way of example,
25 principles of inventions disclosed.
                               Brief Description of the Drawin2s
            Embodiments will now be described, by way of example only, with reference
30 to the accompanying drawings, in which:
            Figure 1 shows a liner system attached to a container in the form of a digger
   bucket;

                                                5
             Figure 2 is a side view of a clamping member used in affixing the liner system
   of Figure 1 to the digger bucket;
 5           Figure 3 is a partial above perspective view of the clamping member of Figure
   2;
             Figure 4 is a perspective view of an alternative embodiment of a liner system
   attached to a digger bucket;
10
             Figure 5 is an upper perspective view of a further alternative embodiment of a
   liner system used in conjunction with a dump truck body;
             Figure 6 shows the upper region of one of the liner sections of Figure 5;
15
             Figure 7 is an underside view of an alternative embodiment of a clamping
   member;
             Figure 8 is a cross-section along the line B-B of Figure 7; and
20
             Figure 9 is a cross-section along the line A-A of Figure 7.
                             Detailed Description of Embodiments
25           Referring to Figure 1, a container 10 includes a generally rigid container body
   which is a conventional steel digger bucket 12 of a front end loader. The steel digger
   bucket 12 has had a liner system 20 attached to it's interior.
             The liner system 20 includes a membrane 22 which has two side sections 24,
30 26 and a main section 28.
             The membrane is assembled in two layers in the following way from two
   different types of rubber materials:

                                                 6
             The first step is to cut three sheets of LINARD@ brand latex rubber (available
   from the Weir Minerals Division of The Weir Group PLC, www.weirminerals.com),
   which are then joined to make a single piece (that is, one layer) using 14T glue
 5 adhesive. The formed layer of LINARD rubber is made up of one main sheet and two
   small side pieces which together resemble the surface area of the interior surface of the
   bucket 12 (and are slightly smaller in overall assembled shape).
             The second step is to cut three sheets of LINATEX@ brand latex rubber
10 (available    from    the   Weir    Minerals    Division of The    Weir    Group    PLC,
   www.weirminerals.com), which are then joined to make a single piece (the second
   layer) using 14T glue adhesive. The formed layer of LINATEX rubber is made up of
   one main sheet and two small side pieces which together resemble the surface area of
   the interior surface of the bucket, but this time the sheet components are cut in such a
15 way as the join lines between the three pieces are staggered or offset from the join lines
   of the LINARD material layer (the first layer), when the two layers are overlaid.
             The first and second layers are then laminated together on opposite mating flat
   surfaces with glue, to form one membrane. In this way the combined sheet of first and
20 second layers has greater strength at the joins because of the staggered position of the
   join lines.
             The orientation of the flexible membrane in use is such that the layer of
   LINATEX rubber (the second layer) is positioned as a backing layer, adjacent the wall
25 of the bucket or container, and the layer of LINARD rubber is oriented as the outer
   surface of the flexible membrane which presents to the particulate ore material. This
   combination is especially useful because the LINATEX rubber layer has excellent
   strength properties as the supporting layer and the LINARD rubber has a laminated
   surface to improve the sliding ability of the ore particulates across the rubber surface
30 during discharge. LINARD rubber also has good cut and tear resistance as the top layer
   (load facing) and the inside LINATEX rubber layer provides joint strength as well as
   flexibility and rebound strength.

                                              7
             The LINARD material used may have a Shore A hardness in the range of
   between 55 and 75 and may selected from any of: LINARD 60 having a Shore A
   hardness of 58, LINARD HDS having a Shore A hardness of 70, or LINARD HD70
   having a Shore A hardness of 67. The LINATEX rubber material used has a Shore A
 5 hardness of approximately 40, but may lie in the range of in the range of 30 to 50.
             In some embodiments, the second layer may also be formed of LINARD
   rubber, such as LINARD 60. The second layer may be of approximately 5mm to 10mm
   thickness. The first layer may be of approximately 15mm to 20mm thickness.
10
             The liner membrane 22 is attached to the bucket 12 at its edges by way of a
   series of fixtures in the form of clamping members 50. Referring to Figures 2 and 3,
   each clamping member 50 has a flat region 52 which in use lies against the inside
   surface of a location around the rim of the digger bucket 12. A portion of the liner
15 membrane is clamped between the clamping member 50 and the inside surface of the
   digger bucket 12 in the region of teeth formation 54. Bolts are inserted through the
   outside of the digger bucket through holes 58 to engage with nuts located in some
   recesses 56.    Tightening of the bolts causes the teeth 54 to bite into the rubber
   membrane 22 and thus to clamp the liner membrane 22 between the clamping member
20 50 and the inside surface of the digger bucket 12.
             The clamping member 50 has an angled bevelled region 60 facing the front of
   the bucket to deflect the ore away during loading of the bucket, as well as to protect the
   leading edge of the rubber membrane 22. The fixtures may be cast from wear resistant
25 alloys. Each fixture may have several mounting holes and may be of various lengths.
   Several fixtures are used to mount each liner.
             The teeth 54 are arranged to be reverse facing - that is, to jag and support the
   liner membrane 22 opposite to the direction of force that will be placed on the liner
30 membrane 22 during loading of ore material. This feature allows a very high clamping
   force and reduces the potential of the rubber being ripped from the clamp when
   subjected to high pulling loads when the bucket is being filled.         Rubber can be a
   difficult material to clamp because its natural elasticity allows it to take high initial

                                                8
   clamping force that soon becomes relaxed. A high clamping force is maintained by the
   clamping member 50 by having a preloaded amount of clamp force as well as the teeth
   to take up the rubber liner membrane 22.
 5          Referring to Figures 7 to 9, an alternative embodiment of a clamping member
   150 is shown. Like features to the fixture which is shown in Figures 3 and 4 have been
   indicated by using like reference numerals. In this embodiment, the flat region 152 is
   inclined to the plane of the teeth 154 by approximately 5 angle degrees. The flat region
   152 is inclined so that the angle at which surfaces 152 and 160 meet is reduced when
10 compared with surfaces 52 and 60 of the embodiment of the clamping member shown
   in Figures 3 and 4. This feature can allow multiple thicknesses of rubber membrane to
   be used with the same clamp. Tests have shown a full clamping force to be achieved
   with rubber liner thicknesses of between 20mm through to 30mm.
15          In the embodiment of Figures 3 and 4, some recesses 56 in the clamping
   member 50 protect the nuts from damage due to wear in use. In the embodiment of
   Figures 7 to 9 the nuts are protected by raised ridges 162 which stand proud of the
   upper surface of the clamping member 150 and which encircle the nuts. The ridges
   around adjacent nuts are joined by webs for added strength.
20
            Referring to Figure 4, the clamping arrangement is shown in enlarged view.
   The bevelled region of the clamping member 50 cooperates with a bevelled edge 11 on
   the lower lip of the bucket 10 to guide bulk material into the bucket and to protect the
   rubber membrane 22.
25
            In some embodiments, the end sections 24, 26 may be omitted.               In such
   embodiments, curved clamping members (not shown) can be utilised to affix the liner to
   the bucket along its side edges in the region indicated by arrows A in Figure 4. The
   curved clamping members are formed from rectangular strips which have been shaped
30 to conform with the curvature of the bucket and are provided with a series of holes
   along their length to enable the strips to be bolted to the rear face of the bucket through
   the rubber liner, so as to secure the rubber liner to the bucket.

                                                9
             In use, the innate stiffness of the rubber membrane material along with the
   clamping arrangement maintains the membrane in general conformity with the inside of
   the bucket, while still allowing some movement and flexing of the membrane, which in
   use, aids in the release of bulk solid material from the bucket. In use, the membrane is
 5 free to move away from the rear wall of the bucket during a product discharge step,
   insofar as the shape and flexibility of the rubber will allow, which in turn facilitates
   discharge of maximum residual material from inside the bucket.               The filling of
   particulate material such as ore or particulate materials passing into the bucket, on top
   of the rubber membrane, then causes the rubber to be reshaped back into the form of the
10 container as a liner material.     During a subsequent product discharge step, a partial
   vacuum may be created in the back side area of the bucket, for example, between the
   bucket base or end wall and the underside of the rubber membrane, which also
   facilitates the sucking back of the membrane liner into the bucket during subsequent
   refilling operation.
15
             The liner is designed to be slightly smaller in size than the bucket to which it is
   affixed, so as to offer a slight stretch when the bucket is loaded. This aspect allows the
   rubber to be pushed back into the bucket during the ore loading process and to assist the
   discharge of the ore when the bucket is being emptied. In a pure mathematical form
20 one can consider the steel bucket as having a capacity of 100%. The liner on the other
   hand in its relaxed form may have a capacity of, say, only 95% given that it is smaller
   than the bucket to which it is attached. The ability of the rubber to stretch allows it to
   assume the 100% capacity of the bucket when it is being loaded. The liner may also be
   installed under some tension, that is, the rubber is stretched slightly from its relaxed
25 position when installed.
             The lamination of the two compounds offers a liner membrane having a layer
   of cut resistance and sliding material together with a highly flexible compound to give
   the flexibility needed to both extend and retract the liner when emptied. The liner is
30 affixed to the bucket by various means depending on the bucket design but is intended
   to be fixed at the periphery of the opening of the bucket to remain as flexible as
   possible.

                                              10
             The rubber membrane can be fastened to the rim of the container by any
   suitable fastening means, which can include a series of rounded discs welded to the rim,
   and the liner having a series of holes which match or align with the position of those
   rounded discs, and a suitable bolt, fastener, clip or similar to fasten the edge region of
 5 the liner sheet to the rounded discs.
             Experimental results have shown that hang-up in conventional digger buckets
   can be as much as 50% of its capacity, whereas buckets fitted with liners as described
   herein above have shown that the percentage of retained ore material has dropped to
10 around 5-10% of the bucket capacity.         This can allow a significant increase in
   production capacity and reduce operational costs because the effective amount of ore
   moved per load is higher because of the reduction of hang up tonnage.
             In another embodiment, a liner system is configured for use with dump trucks
15 at a mine site which tip the dump truck bodies to effect discharge of the materials, or are
   inverted to effect discharge.
             Referring to Figure 5, a container 100 is shown in the form of a dump truck
   body 110 fitted with a liner system 120.         This embodiment involves a series of
20 overlapping panels fitted along the front wall, corners, forward floor and part of the
   tapered inside surfaces of the dump truck body.
             The dump truck body is shown in an upper perspective view and some
   elements are shown as visible through side wall 111 to allow for a better understanding
25 of the arrangement of components inside the dump truck body. The dump truck body
   110 includes a sloped floor portion 112, a front wall 114, side walls 111, 113 and a
   forwardly projecting lip 115 which extends over the top of the cabin (not shown) of the
   truck.
30           The dump truck body is fitted with a series of three cascading liner sections
   130, 140, 150, which are installed by affixing the liner sections along their respective
   upper edges with three rows of clamping fixtures 50a, 50b, 50c affixed at different
   heights, and which are identical to those used in the previously described embodiment

                                                  l1
   in the following manner:
             The front area of the floor 112 is covered first with a first section 130 which is
   affixed at its upper edge by a row of clamping fixtures 50a positioned about 500mm up
 5 from the base of the front wall 114 and is allowed to lay on the floor up toward the rear
   of the tray by approximately 2.5 - 3m. A long skive in the rubber at the trailing edge of
   the first section is designed to minimise the pickup when the truck is being loaded.
             A second section 140 is installed overlying the first section 130. The second
10 section 140 is affixed by a row of clamping fixtures 50b positioned about 1.0 to 1.2m up
   from the base of the front wall 114. The second section drops down to the floor and
   extends along the floor by about 500mm overlapping the floor section 130.
             The third section 150 is provided in two parts in the front corners of the truck
15 body 110, and each part is affixed at their respective upper edges by clamping fixtures
   50c positioned at about the upper edges of the front 114 and side walls 111, 113 and
   extend from the top of the truck body down to the floor 112. The corner sections 150
   therefore overlap the second 140 and first 130 sections.
20           The liner sections 130, 140, 150 are of a laminated construction. Referring to
   Figure 6, a portion of a liner section 140 is shown in enlarged detail and includes a
   rearwardly disposed layer 142 of 5mm thick silica reinforced natural rubber material
   such as LINARD@ HDS brand.            A frontwardly disposed layer 146 is formed from
   LINARD@ HDS of 20mm thickness. In between the layers 142, 146 is disposed a
25 region of a substantially inextensible material such as truck cord (otherwise known as
   tyre cord) 144. The layers are adhered together using 14T glue adhesive.
             The cord material 144 extends from the upper edge of section 140 to below the
   region in which the section is clamped by approximately 150mm. The cord material
30 144 is included to allow the elongation of each of the sections in a controlled manner
   whereby the section elongates from the truck cord and not the clamp itself               This
   relieves the loads in the region of the clamp 50, reducing the likelihood of the rubber
   sections splitting at the clamp, but still allows the rubber to stretch where it is needed.

                                               12
            The system allows easy installation and a modular design to facilitate
   individual change-out of any damaged sections.
 5          The overlapping nature of the liner sections allows them to act on each other,
   protect each other and yet move independently to each other. By being secured only at
   their upper edges, the sections are free to move away from the inner surfaces of the tray
   body when the tray is tipped. This allows the bulk solid material contained in the truck
   body to start moving when the tray is tipped. Then, with no other obstructions, the bulk
10 material gathers momentum and continues to move, resulting in a substantially empty
   truck.
            The system is particularly suitable for the application of handling ore at mine
   sites and in areas where high compaction of the solids are evident from loading and
15 vibrations.
            Although embodiments have been described with reference to containers in the
   form of digger buckets and dump truck bodies, it has application to any container used
   for bulk solids which show symptoms of "hang up" when the container is moved in a
20 direction, such as by being tipped or inverted, to empty the container, for example
   railway ore container cars.
            The reduction in hang up provided by embodiments disclosed herein can
   provide at least one of the following consequent advantages:
25               * Fuel savings
                 * Elimination of the need to operate a separate excavator
                 * Reduced operator injury
                 * Reduced tyre costs
                 * Reduced maintenance costs, and
30              * Increased production throughput of ore material.
           In the foregoing description of preferred embodiments, specific terminology has
   been resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended to be
   limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific

                                                13
   term includes all technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish
   a similar technical purpose.      Terms such as "front" and "rear", "inner" and "outer",
   "above", "below", "upper" and "lower" and the like are used as words of convenience to
   provide reference points and are not to be construed as limiting terms.
 5
           The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
   derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or
   information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
10 knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
           In this specification, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open"
   sense, that is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense, that
   is the sense of "consisting only of'. A corresponding meaning is to be attributed to the
15 corresponding words "comprise", "comprised" and "comprises" where they appear.
           In addition, the foregoing describes only some embodiments of the invention(s),
   and alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made thereto without
   departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments, the embodiments
20 being illustrative and not restrictive.
           Furthermore, invention(s) have been described in connection with what are
   presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be
   understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but on
25 the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements
   included within the spirit and scope of the invention(s). Also, the various embodiments
   described above may be implemented in conjunction with other embodiments, e.g.,
   aspects of one embodiment may be combined with aspects of another embodiment to
   realize yet other embodiments. Further, each independent feature or component of any
30 given assembly may constitute an additional embodiment.

                                          14
CLAIMS:
1.    A fixture for use in affixing a liner system to the inside surface of a container
      used    in    the   handling     of    bulk   solids,  the     fixture    including:
      - an arrangement of teeth to clamp the liner at said inside surface in use;
      -   a fastening    means    to fasten     the  fixture  at   the    container;   and
      - a bevelled region.
2.    A fixture according to claim 1, wherein the teeth lie in a plane and the
      underside of the bevelled region has a planar surface; the planar surface lies in
      a plane which is inclined with respect to the plane of the teeth.
3.    A fixture according to claim 2, wherein the plane of planar surface is inclined
      with respect to the plane of the teeth by approximately 5 angle degrees.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
