Abstract
The disclosure relates to a method of reprogramming one or more somatic cells, e.g., partially
differentiated or fully/terminally differentiated somatic cells, to a less differentiated state, e.g., a
pluripotent or multipotent state. In further embodiments the invention also relates to
reprogrammed somatic cells produced by methods of the invention, to uses of said cells, and
to methods for identifying agents useful for reprogramming somatic cells.

                                                  - 1
                              REPROGRAMMING OF SOMATIC CELLS
  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
  No: <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
5         The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
  61/036,065, filed March 12, 2008; U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/959,341, filed July 12,
  2007; and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/922,121, filed April 7, 2007. The specifications
  of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
  GOVERNMENTSUPPORT
0         The invention was supported, in whole or in part, by grants 5-RO1-HDO45022, 5-R37
  CA084198 and 5-RO1-CA087869 from the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government
  has certain rights in the invention.
  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
5 considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
  general knowledge in the field.
  Embryonic development and cellular differentiation are considered unidirectional pathways
  because cells undergo a progressive loss of developmental potency during cell fate
  specification. Two categories of pluripotent stem cells are

                                 -2
   known to date: embryonic stem cells and embryonic germ
   cells. Embryonic stem cells are pluripotent stem cells that
   are derived directly from an embryo. Embryonic germ cells
   are pluripotent stem cells that are derived directly from
 5 the fetal tissue of aborted fetuses. For purposes of
   simplicity, embryonic stem cells and embryonic germ cells
   will be collectively referred to as "ES" cells herein.
         The success of somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT)
   experiments in mammalian species provided proof that the
10 epigenetic state of adult differentiated cells is not fixed
   but remains pliable for reprogramming by factors present in
   the oocyte cytoplasm (Byrne et al.,    2007; Jaenisch and
   Young, 2008; Wakayama and Yanagimachi, 2001).    However, the
   inefficiency and ethical concerns associated with attempting
15 to clone human somatic cells have spurred the field to
   search for alternative methods to achieve nuclear
   reprogramming without using oocytes (Jaenisch and Young,
   2008).  Indeed, fusion of somatic cells to embryonic
   carcinoma cells or embryonic stem (ES) cells results in
20 epigenetic resetting of the somatic genome but involves the
   generation of 4N pluripotent cells, limiting the potential
   therapeutic use of such cells    (Cowan et al., 2005; Tada et
   al.,  2001).
         Nevertheless, the reprogramming of somatic cells by
25 fusion with ES cells suggested that ES cells, similar to the
   oocyte cytoplasm, contain factors that can induce nuclear
   reprogramming. An important breakthrough was achieved by
   Yamanaka and colleagues, who succeeded in directly
   reprogramming fibroblasts into induced pluripotent stem
30 (iPS) cells by transduction of the four transcription
   factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc (Takahashi and Yamanaka,

                                  -3
   2006). Although the initially obtained iPS cells were not
   normal, several groups have since advanced the direct
   reprogramming technique by generating iPS cells that are
   epigenetically and developmentally indistinguishable from
 5 embryo-derived ES cells    (Maherali, 2007; Meissner et al.,
   2007; Okita et al.,   2007; Wernig et-al.,  2007).  Moreover,
   transgenic expression of c-Myc was found to be dispensable
   for reprogramming, though it accelerated and enhanced the
   efficiency of reprogramming    (Nakagawa et al.,  2008; Wernig
10 et al.,  2008). Finally, it has also been shown that human
   iPS cells can be generated by transduction of defined
   factors into somatic cells    (Park et al., 2008; Takahashi et
   al.,  2007; Yu et al.,  2007).
         Despite the work that has been done to date, it remains
15 unknown whether terminally differentiated cells can be
   reprogrammed to pluripotency with defined factors, or
   whether only less differentiated cells such as somatic stem
   cells can undergo nuclear reprogramming to pluripotency.
   Moreover, it is unclear whether progressive differentiation
20 of the donor cells affects the efficiency of in vitro
   reprogramming.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention provides engineered somatic
25 cells, in which one or more endogenous pluripotency gene(s)
   is operably linked to a selectable marker in such a manner
   that the expression of the selectable marker substantially
   matches the expression of the endogenous pluripotency gene
   to which the marker is linked. The invention also provides
30 transgenic mice containing these engineered somatic cells.

                                 -4
        The present invention also provides methods for
   reprogramming somatic cells to a less differentiated state.
   In certain of the methods, engineered somatic cells of the
   invention are treated with an agent.    Cells that express the
 5 selectable marker are then selected, and assessed for
   pluripotency characteristics.    The treatment with an agent
   may be contacting the cells with an agent which alters
   chromatin structure, or may be transfecting the cells with
   at least one pluripotency gene, or both.
10      The present invention further provides methods for
   identifying an agent that reprograms somatic cells to a less
   differentiated state.   In certain of the methods, the
   engineered somatic cells described above are contacted with
   a candidate agent.   Cells that express the selectable marker
15 are then selected, and assessed for pluripotency
   characteristics.   The presence of at least a subset of
   pluripotency characteristics indicates that the agent is
   capable of reprogramming somatic cells to a less
   differentiated state.   The agents identified by the present
20 invention can then by used to reprogram somatic cells by
   contacting somatic cells with the agents.
        The present invention also provides methods for
   identifying a gene that causes the expression of at least
   one endogenous pluripotency gene in somatic cells.    In
25 certain of the methods, the engineered somatic cells are
   transfected with a cDNA library prepared from a pluripotent
   cell, such as an ES cell.   The cells that express the
   appropriate selectable marker are then selected, and the
   expression of the appropriate endogenous pluripotency gene
30 is examined.  The expression of an endogenous pluripotency
   gene indicates that the CDNA encodes a protein whose

                                -5
   expression in the cell results in, directly or indirectly,
   expression of the endogenous pluripotency gene.
        The invention provides methods of deriving reprogrammed
   somatic cells from somatic cells that have not been
 5 genetically modified.  The invention provides methods of
   deriving reprogrammed somatic cells without use of genetic
   selection or, in some embodiments, without use of chemical
   selection.  Reprogrammed somatic cells are derived from non
   engineered somatic cells according to the invention by, for
10 example, introducing reprogramming agents into non
   engineered somatic cells and/or expressing such agents
   therein and selecting reprogrammed cells by any of a variety
   of methods that do not require presence of exogenous genetic
   material within the cells.
15      In some embodiments, the methods employ morphological
   criteria to identify reprogrammed somatic cells from among a
   population of somatic cells that are not reprogrammed.   In
   some embodiments, the methods employ morphological criteria
   to identify somatic cells that have been reprogrammed to an
20 ES-like state from among a population of cells that are not
   reprogrammed or are only partly reprogrammed to an ES-like
   state.
        In some embodiments, the methods employ complement
   mediated lysis to eliminate at least some non-reprogrammed
25 somatic cells from a population of cells that contains at
   least some reprogrammed somatic cells.
        The present invention further provides methods for
   treating a condition in an individual in need of such
   treatment.  In certain embodiments, somatic cells are
30 obtained from the individual and reprogrammed by the methods
   of the invention under conditions suitable for the cells to

                                 -6
   develop into cells of a desired cell type.   The reprogrammed
   cells of a desired cell type are then harvested and
   introduced into the individual to treat the condition.     In
   certain further embodiments, the somatic cells obtained from
 5 the individual contain a mutation in one or more genes.    In
   these instances, in certain embodiments the methods are
   modified so that the somatic cells obtained from the
   individual are first treated to restore the one or more
   normal gene(s) to the cells such that the resulting cells
10 carry the normal endogenous gene, which are then introduced
   into the individual.
         In certain further embodiments, the somatic cells
   obtained from the individual are engineered to express one
   or more genes following their removal from the individual.
15 The cells may be engineered by introducing a gene or
   expression cassette comprising a gene into the cells.    The
   gene or a portion thereof may be flanked by sites for a
   site-specific recombinase.
         The gene may be one that is useful for purposes of
20 identifying, selecting, and/or generating a reprogrammed
   cell.   In certain embodiments the gene encodes an expression
   product that causes a reduction in DNA methylation in the
   cell.   For example, the gene may encode an RNA that
   interferes with expression of a DNA methyltransferase, e.g.,
25 DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a, or 3b (Dnmtl, 3a, 3b).   The RNA
   may be a short hairpin RNA (shRNA) or microRNA precursor.
   In certain embodiments the RNA is a precursor that is
   processed intracellularly to yield a short interfering RNA
   (siRNA) or microRNA (miRNA) that inhibits expression of
30 Dnmtl, 3a, or 3b.   In certain embodiments the gene encodes a

                                 -7
   marker that is usable for positive and for negative
   selection.
        In certain embodiments the gene is one that contributes
   to initiating and/or maintaining the reprogrammed state.    In
 5 certain embodiments the gene is one whose expression product
   contributes to initiating the reprogrammed state (and in
   certain embodiments is necessary for maintaining the
   reprogrammed state) but which is dispensable for maintaining
   the reprogrammed state.   In these instances, in certain
10 embodiments the methods include a step of treating the
   engineered cells after reprogramming in order to reduce or
   eliminate expression of the gene.   In methods in which the
   reprogrammed cells are differentiated in vitro or in vivo
   after reprogramming, the treatment to reduce or eliminate
15 expression of the gene may occur before or after the
   reprogrammed cells differentiate.   The treatment may
   comprise causing excision of at least a portion of the
   introduced gene, e.g., by introducing or expressing a
   recombinase in the cells.    In certain embodiments the gene
20 is one whose expression product contributes to maintaining
   the reprogrammed state (and in certain embodiments is
   necessary for maintaining the reprogrammed state) but which
   is dispensable once the reprogrammed cells have
   differentiated into a desired cell type.   In these
25 embodiments the methods may include a step of treating the
   engineered reprogrammed cells after their differentiation so
   as to reduce or eliminate expression of the gene.
        In certain other embodiments, methods of the invention
   can be used to treat individuals in need of a functional
30 organ.  In the methods, somatic cells are obtained from an
   individual in need of a functional organ, and reprogrammed

                                 -8
   by the methods of the invention to produce reprogrammed
   somatic cells.   Such reprogrammed somatic cells are then
   cultured under conditions suitable for development of the
   reprogrammed somatic cells into a desired organ, which is
 5 then introduced into the individual.   The methods are useful
   for treating any one of the following conditions: a
   neurological, endocrine, structural, skeletal, vascular,
   urinary, digestive, integumentary, blood, autoimmune,
   inflammatory, or muscular condition.
10       The present invention also provides methods for
   producing a cloned animal.   In the methods, a somatic cell
   is isolated from an animal having desired characteristics,
   and reprogrammed using the methods of the invention to
   produce one or more reprogrammed pluripotent somatic cell
15  ("RPSC").  The RPSCs are then inserted into a recipient
   embryo, and the resulting embryo is cultured to produce an
   embryo of suitable size for implantation into a recipient
   female, which is then transferred into a recipient female to
   produce a pregnant female.   The pregnant female is
20 maintained under conditions appropriate for carrying the
   embryo to term to produce chimeric animal progeny, which is
   then bred with a wild type animal to produce a cloned
   animal.
         In certain embodiments, the RPSCs may alternatively be
25 cryopreserved for future cloning uses.   In certain other
   embodiments, genetic modification, such as a targeted
   mutation, may be introduced into the RPSCs prior to its
   insertion into a recipient embryo.
         The present invention also provides methods for
30 producing a cloned avian.   In the methods, a somatic cell is
   isolated from an avian having desired characteristics, and

                                -9
   reprogrammed using the methods of the invention to produce
   one or more reprogrammed pluripotent somatic cell   ("RPSC").
   The RPSCs are then inserted into eggs that are unable to
   develop into an embryo, and the resulting eggs are then
 5 incubated to produce avian offspring having the genotype of
   the RPSC, thereby producing a cloned avian.
        It is contemplated that all embodiments described above
   are applicable to all different aspects of the invention. It
   is also contemplated that any of the above embodiments can
10 be freely combined with one or more other such embodiments
   whenever appropriate.
        As described herein, transgenic and inducible
   expression of four transcription factors  (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4,
   and c-Myc) was used to reprogram mouse B lymphocytes.    These
15 factors were sufficient to convert non-terminally
   differentiated B cells that have undergone partial B cell
   receptor rearrangements to a pluripotent state.
   Reprogramming of mature B cells required additional ectopic
   expression of a myeloid transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer
20 binding-protein-a (C/EBPa), known for its ability to
   interrupt the transcriptional state maintaining B cell
   identity. Multiple iPS lines were clonally derived from both
   non-fully and fully differentiated mature B lymphocytes, and
   gave rise to adult chimeras, to late term embryos when
25 injected into tetraploid blastocysts, and contributed to the
   germline. Work described herein provides definitive proof
   for the direct nuclear reprogramming of terminally
   differentiated adult cells to pluripotency.
        Accordingly, in one embodiment the invention relates to
30 a method of reprogramming a differentiated somatic cell to a
   pluripotent state, comprising the steps of contacting a

                                -10
   differentiated somatic cell with at least one reprogramming
   agent that contributes to reprogramming of said cell to a
   pluripotent state; maintaining said cell under conditions
   appropriate for proliferation of the cell and for activity
 5 of the at least one reprogramming agent for a period of time
   sufficient to begin reprogramming of the cell; and
   functionally inactivating the at least one reprogramming
   agent.
         In another embodiment the invention relates to a method
10 of reprogramming a differentiated somatic cell to a
   pluripotent state, comprising the steps of providing a
   differentiated somatic cell that contains at least one
   exogenously introduced factor that contributes to
   reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent state;
15 maintaining the cell under conditions appropriate for
   proliferation of the cell and for activity of the at least
   one exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
   sufficient to activate at least one endogenous pluripotency
   gene; and functionally inactivating the at least one
20 exogenously introduced factor.
         In a further embodiment the invention pertains to a
   method of selecting a differentiated somatic cell that has
   been reprogrammed to a pluripotent state, comprising the
   steps of providing a differentiated somatic cell that
25 contains at least one exogenously introduced factor that
   contributes to reprogramming of the cell to a pluripotent
   state; maintaining the cell under conditions appropriate for
   proliferation of the cell and for activity of the at least
   one exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
30 sufficient to activate at least one endogenous pluripotency
   gene; functionally inactivating the at least one exogenously

                                  -11
   introduced factor; and differentiating or distinguishing
   between cells which display one or more markers of
   pluripotency and cells which do not.    In one embodiment
   differentiating or distinguishing between cells which
 5 display one or more markers of pluripotency and cells which
   do not comprises selection or enrichment for cells
   displaying one or more markers of pluripotency and/or
   selection against cells which do not display one or more
   markers of pluripotency.
10       In some embodiments of the invention the differentiated
   somatic cell is partially differentiated.    In other
   embodiments of the invention the differentiated somatic cell
   is fully differentiated.
         In some embodiments of the invention the differentiated
15 somatic cell is cell of hematopoetic lineage; in some
   embodiments the differentiated somatic cell is obtained from
   peripheral blood.    In one embodiment of the invention the
   differentiated somatic cell is an immune system cell.     In
   one embodiment the differentiated somatic cell is a
20 macrophage.   In one embodiment the differentiated somatic
   cell is a lymphoid cell.    In other embodiments of the
   invention the differentiated somatic cell is a B cell, such
   as an immature   (e.g., pro-B cell or pre-B cell) or mature
    (e.g., non-naive) B-cell.
25       In some embodiments of the invention the at least one
   exogenously introduced factor is a polynucleotide.    In other
   embodiments the at least one exogenously introduced factor
   is a polypeptide.    In one embodiment the at least one
   exogenously introduced factor is selected from the group
30 consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, Nanog, Lin28, c-Myc and
   combinations thereof.    In particular embodiments of the

                               -12
   invention the differentiated somatic cell contains
   exogenously introduced Oct4, Sox2, and Klf-4 exogenously
   introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc.
        In one embodiment of the invention the at least one
 5 exogenously introduced factor is selected from the group
   consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and combinations
   thereof and the differentiated somatic cell further contains
   at least one exogenously introduced factor (e.g., a
   polynucleotide or polypeptide) capable of inducing
10 dedifferentiation of the differentiated somatic cell.   In
   some embodiments the factor capable of inducing
   dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell is
   selected from the group consisting of at least one
   polynucleotide which downregulates B cell late specific
15 markers, at least one polynucleotide which inhibits
   expression of Pax5, at least one polypeptide which
   downregulates B cell late specific markers, at least one
   polypeptide which inhibits expression of Pax5, and
   combinations thereof.  In one embodiment of the invention
20 the factor capable of inducing dedifferentiation of said
   differentiated somatic cell is C/EBPa or a human homolog of
   C/EBPa.
        In particular embodiments of the invention the at least
   one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a
25 vector, e.g., an inducible vector or a conditionally
   expressed vector.  In one aspect the at least one
   exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a vector
   which is not subject to methylation-mediated silencing.    In
   yet another embodiment the at least one exogenously
30 introduced factor is introduced using a viral vector such as
   a retroviral or lentiviral vector.

                                -13
         In one embodiment of the invention the differentiated
   somatic cell is maintained in the presence of hematopoetic
   cytokines and growth factors or is cultured on media
   comprising bone marrow stromal cells.
 5       In some embodiments of the present invention the
   endogenous pluripotency gene is selected from the group
   consisting of Nanog, Oct4, Sox2 and combinations thereof.
   In other embodiments the endogenous pluripotency gene is co
   expressed with a selectable marker, such as an antibiotic
10 resistance gene or luminescent marker.   In particular
   embodiments the differentiated somatic cell further
   comprises at least one polynucleotide encoding a selectable
   marker operably linked to expression control elements that
   regulate expression of said at least one endogenous
15 pluripotency gene.   In specific embodiments the
   differentiated somatic cell comprises a selectable gene in
   the Oct4 locus, the Nanog locus, or both the Oct4 and Nanog
   loci.   In a certain embodiment the at least one exogenously
   introduced factor is introduced using an inducible vector
20 and wherein functionally inactivating said at least one
   exogenously introduced factor comprises rendering the
   conditions under which said cell is maintained unsuitable
   for inducible expression of said vector.
         In some embodiments of the invention, markers of
25 pluripotency are selected from the group consisting of
   expression of a pluripotency gene, expression of a gene
   whose expression is a direct or indirect result of
   expression of a pluripotency gene, expression of alkaline
   phosphatase, expression of SSEA1, expression of SSEA3,
30 expression of SSEA4, expression of TRAF-60, expression of
   Nanog, expression of Oct4, expression of Fxbl5, morphology

                                -14
   characteristic of an ES cell or an ES cell colony, ability
   to participate in formation of chimeras that survive to
   term, ability to differentiate into cells having
   characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm when
 5 injected into SCID mice, presence of two active X
   chromosomes, resistance to DNA methylation, and combinations
   thereof.
         The invention also relates to an isolated pluripotent
   cell derived from a reprogrammed differentiated somatic cell
10 in accordance with methods of the invention.   In particular
   the invention relates to a purified population of somatic
   cells comprising at least 70% pluripotent cells derived from
   reprogrammed differentiated somatic cells.
         The invention further relates to an isolated
15 pluripotent cell produced by a method comprising (a)
   providing a differentiated somatic cell that contains at
   least one exogenously introduced factor that contributes to
   reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent state;   (b)
   maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate for
20 proliferation of said cell and for activity of said at least
   one exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
   sufficient to activate at least one endogenous pluripotency
   gene;  (c) functionally inactivating said at least one
   exogenously introduced factor; and (d) differentiating cells
25 which display one or more markers of pluripotency from cells
   which do not.
         The invention also relates to a purified population of
   somatic cells comprising at least 70% pluripotent cells
   derived from reprogrammed differentiated somatic cells
30 produced by a method comprising (a)providing a
   differentiated somatic cell that contains at least one

                                 -15
   exogenously introduced factor that contributes to
   reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent state;    (b)
   maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate for
   proliferation of said cell and for activity of said at least
 5 one exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
   sufficient begin reprogramming of said cell or to activate
   at least one endogenous pluripotency gene;    (c) functionally
   inactivating said at least one exogenously introduced
   factor; and (d) differentiating cells which display one or
10 more markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
        In another aspect the invention relates to a method of
   producing a pluripotent cell from a somatic cell, comprising
   the steps of  (a) providing one or more somatic cells that
   each contain at least one exogenously introduced factor that
15 contributes to reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent
   state, wherein said exogenously introduced factor is
   introduced using an inducible vector which is not subject to
   methylation-induced silencing;    (b) maintaining said one or
   more cells under conditions appropriate for proliferation of
20 said cells and for activity of said at least one exogenously
   introduced factor for a period of time sufficient begin
   reprogramming of said cell or to activate at least one
   endogenous pluripotency gene;    (c) functionally inactivating
   said at least one exogenously introduced factor;    (d)
25 selecting one or more cells which display a marker of
   pluripotency;  (e) generating a chimeric embryo utilizing
   said one or more cells which display a marker of
   pluripotency;  (f) obtaining one or more somatic cells from
   said chimeric embryo;   (g) maintaining said one or more
30 somatic cells under conditions appropriate for proliferation
   of said cells and for activity of said at least one

                                 -16
   exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
   sufficient to begin reprogramming said cell or to activate
   at least one endogenous pluripotency gene; and (h)
   differentiating between cells which display one or more
 5 markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.     In a
   particular embodiment the method yields a purified
   population of somatic cells comprising at least 70%c
   pluripotent cells derived from reprogrammed differentiated
   somatic cells
10      The invention also relates to an isolated pluripotent
   cell produced by a method comprising (a) providing one or
   more somatic cells that each contain at least one
   exogenously introduced factor that contributes to
   reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent state, wherein
15 said exogenously introduced factor is introduced using an
   inducible vector which is not subject to methylation-induced
   silencing;  (b) maintaining said one or more cells under
   conditions appropriate for proliferation of said cells and
   for activity of said at least one exogenously introduced
20 factor for a period of time sufficient to begin
   reprogramming said cell or to activate at least one
   endogenous pluripotency gene;    (c) functionally inactivating
   said at least one exogenously introduced factor;    (d)
   selecting one or more cells which display a marker of
25 pluripotency;  (e) generating a chimeric embryo utilizing
   said one or more cells which display a marker of
   pluripotency;  (f) obtaining one or more somatic cells from
   said chimeric embryo;   (g) maintaining said one or more
   somatic cells under conditions appropriate for proliferation
30 of said cells and for activity of said at least one
   exogenously introduced factor for a period of time

                                -17
   sufficient to activate at least one endogenous pluripotency
   gene; and (h) differentiating cells which display one or
   more markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
         In preferred embodiments of the invention the methods
 5 yield a purified population of somatic cells comprising at
   least 70%  (e.g., 70%, 75%, 80%,  85%,  90%, 95%,  99%)
   pluripotent cells derived from reprogrammed differentiated
   somatic cells.   In particular embodiments the pluripotent
   cells are genetically homogenous.
10       The invention also pertains to a purified population of
   somatic cells comprising at least 70% pluripotent cells
   derived from reprogrammed differentiated somatic cells
   produced by a method comprising (a) providing one or more
   somatic cells that each contain at least one exogenously
15 introduced factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
   cell to a pluripotent state, wherein said exogenously
   introduced factor is introduced using an inducible vector
   which is not subject to methylation-induced silencing;     (b)
   maintaining said one or more cells under conditions
20 appropriate for proliferation of said cells and for activity
   of said at least one exogenously introduced factor for a
   period of time sufficient to begin reprogramming of said
   cell or to activate at least one endogenous pluripotency
   gene;  (c) functionally inactivating said at least one
25 exogenously introduced factor;   (d) selecting one or more
   cells which display a marker of pluripotency;     (e) generating
   a chimeric embryo utilizing said one or more cells which
   display a marker of pluripotency;    (f) obtaining one or more
   somatic cells from said chimeric embryo;     (g) maintaining
30 said one or more somatic cells under conditions appropriate
   for proliferation of said cells and for activity of said at

                                -18
   least one exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
   sufficient to begin reprogramming said cell or to activate
   at least one endogenous pluripotency gene; and (h)
   differentiating cells which display one or more markers of
 5 pluripotency and cells which do not.
        The invention also encompasses a method of
   reprogramming a differentiated immune cell to a pluripotent
   state, comprising the steps of   (a) providing a
   differentiated immune cell that contains exogenously
10 introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc, each under the
   control of an inducible vector, and further contains
   exogenously introduced C/EBPa;   (b) maintaining said cell
   under conditions appropriate for proliferation of said cell
   and for activity of Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and C/EBPac   for
15 a period of time sufficient to activate endogenous Nanog
   and/or Oct4; and (c) functionally inactivating exogenously
   introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc.    In one embodiment
   of the method said inducible vector is not subject to
   methylation-derived silencing.
20      The invention also relates to a purified population of
   immune cells comprising at least 70W pluripotent cells
   derived from reprogrammed differentiated immune cells
   produced by a method comprising the steps of    (a) providing a
   differentiated immune cell that contains exogenously
25 introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc, each under the
   control of an inducible vector, and further contains
   exogenously introduced C/EBPa;   (b) maintaining said cell
   under conditions appropriate for proliferation of said cell
   and for activity of Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and C/EBPa for
30 a period of time sufficient to activate endogenous Nanog

                                 -19
   and/or Oct4;  and  (c) functionally inactivating exogenously
   introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc.
         The invention also relates to a method of identifying a
   reprogramming agent comprising (a) providing one or more
 5 somatic cells that each contain at least one exogenously
   introduced factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
   cell to a pluripotent state, wherein each of said
   exogenously introduced factors is introduced using an
   inducible vector which is not subject to methylation-induced
10 silencing and the expression of which is controlled by
   regulatory elements induced by distinct inducers; (b)
   maintaining said one or more cells under conditions
   appropriate for proliferation of said cells and for activity
   of said at least one exogenously introduced factor for a
15 period of time sufficient to reprogram said cell or to
   activate at least one endogenous pluripotency gene;    (c)
   functionally inactivating said at least one exogenously
   i.ntroduced factor;  (d)selecting one or more cells which
   display a marker of pluripotency;    (e) generating a chimeric
20 embryo utilizing said one or more cells which display a
   marker of pluripotency;   (f) obtaining one or more somatic
   cells from said chimeric embryo;   (g) maintaining said one or
   more somatic cells under conditions appropriate for
   proliferation of said cells and for activity of said at
25 least one exogenously introduced factor wherein activity of
   said at least one exogenously introduced factor is
   insufficient by itself to activate at least one endogenous
   pluripotency gene;   (h) contacting the somatic cell of  (g)
   with one or more candidate reprogramming agents; and (i)
30 identifying cells contacted with said one or more candidate
   reprogramming agents which display one or more markers of

                                -20
   pluripotency, wherein candidate reprogramming agents which
   induce the somatic cell of  (g) to display one or more
   markers of pluripotency are identified as reprogramming
   agents.
 5
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration of an inducible Oct4
   allele. The first integration vector, inducible Oct4
   integration vector, contains an Oct4 gene driven by a
10 tetracycline-inducible promoter (Tet-Op).    The Tet-Op-Oct4
   cassette is flanked by a splice-acceptor double poly-A
   signal (SA-dpA) at its 5' end and a SV40 polyA tail (SV40
   pA) at its 3' end.  The second integration vector,
   tetracycline activator integration vector, contains a mutant
15 form of tetracycline activator, M2-rtTA, which is more
   responsive to doxycycline (Dox) induction than the wild type
   activator (Urlinger et al.,  Proc Natl Acad Sci USA
   97(14):7963 2000)).
        Figs. 2A-2B show the generation of Oct4- and Nanog
20 selected iPS cells. As illustrated in Fig. 2A, an IRES
   GfpNeo fusion cassette was inserted into the BclI site
   downstream of Oct4 exon 5.  Correctly targeted ES cell clones
   were screened by Southern analysis of NcoI digested DNA
   using a 5' external probe. The Nanog gene was targeted as
25 described in Mitsui et al.,  Cell 113(5):631  (2003). Fig. 2B
   shows the total number (left scale) and percentages (right
   scale) of AP- and strong SSEAl-positive colonies of Oct4
   and Nanogneo MEFs 4 weeks after infection and neo selection.
        Fig. 3 shows the transgenic inducible expression of
30 OCT4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc in the mouse B cell lineage, in
   particular a schematic drawing representing the strategy

                                -21
   used in this study for reprogramming cells from the B cell
   lineage.
        Fig. 4 shows a schematic representation of experiments
   attempting to measure reprogramming efficiency.   3*106
 5 CD19+ adult B cells were infected with retrovirus encoding
   C/EBPa-NeoR construct, and after 24 hours we sorted IgM+IgD+
   mature adult B cells and plated them as single cells in 96
   well plates preplated with OP9 stromal cell line. Cells were
   grown in conditioned medium + Dox + LIF throughout the
10 experiment. On day 6, culture wells were subjected to
   puromycin and neomycin selections for 5 days, which allowed
   only the growth of transgenic B cells infected with C/EBPa.
   On day 20, the wells containing drug resistant cells were
   screened for Nanog-GFP expression by FACS analysis. Wells
15 that scored positive were subsequently passaged on MEFs in
   ES media and grown into iPS cell lines.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        Nuclear reprogramming, which pertains to the concept of
20 rewiring the epigenetic state of a somatic nucleus to that
   of another cell type, can be achieved by different
   approaches. The most recently established strategy to
   reprogram somatic cells to pluripotency involves direct
   ectopic expression of defined transcription factors in
25 somatic cells (Okita et al.,  2007; Takahashi and Yamanaka,
   2006; Wernig et al., 2007).  This enforced factor expression
   appears to initiate a sequence of stochastic events
   occurring over a relatively extended time period in culture
   that eventually leads to generation of a small fraction of
30 cells that have acquired a stable pluripotent state
   (Jaenisch and Young, 2008).   The transduced factors are

                                   -22
   required for an initial period of time in the reprogramming
   process   (Brambrink et al.,   2008; Stadtfeld et al.,    2008),
   during which they may interact with endogenous pluripotency
   genes   (Boyer et al.,   2005; Loh et al.,  2006) and gradually
 5 induce epigenetic changes that subsequently sustain a stable
   epigenetic state that is indistinguishable from that of
   inner cell mass-derived ES cells. During this process, the
   de novo methyltransferases Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b also become
   activated and in turn methylate and silence the virally
10 transduced factors. Silencing of the exogenous factors is
   crucial for subsequent differentiation of the iPS cells
    (Brambrink et al.,    2008; Takahashi et al.,   2007; Wernig et
   al.,  2007;  Stadfeld et al.,   2008).
         In the development of cells along the B cell lineage,
15 sequential intrinsic genetic DNA rearrangements in the heavy
   and light chain immunoglobulin loci genetically mark the
   different consecutive stages of B cell maturation (Jung et
   al.,  2006).    Cells at the Pro-B stage of development
   initiate immunoglobulin rearrangements, a process involving
20 the assembly of V     (variable), D  (diversity) and J   (joining)
   gene segments. Assembly of the heavy chain locus        (IgH)
   precedes that of the light chain loci      (IgL) (Jung et al.,
   2006).   In addition, the rearrangements of the IgH locus are
   sequential,   with DH to JH joining occurring on both alleles
25 prior  to V   to DHJH segment  rearrangement   (Papavasiliou et
   al.,  1997).     The productive assembly of V8 -D8 JH variable
   gene region indirectly signals differentiation to the next
   stage, in which IgL chains are assembled with Igx
   rearrangement generally preceding that of IgA        (Papavasiliou
30 et al.,   1997).  Productive IgL chain generation eventually
   leads to the association of functional light and heavy chain

                               -23
   proteins, which together form the B cell receptor on the
   cell surface. The resulting B cells can migrate to the
   periphery where, upon encountering a cognate antigen, they
   can exert proper immunological functions  (Schlissel, 2003).
 5      Work described herein used cells from this highly
   ordered developmental pathway that carry distinct,
   sequentially-acquired, genetic "fingerprints" that would
   allow accurate retrospective assessment of the developmental
   stage of the donor B cell nucleus that was able to generate
10 the respective monoclonal iPS line.  In particular, as
   described herein, iPS cells were generated from pro- and
   pre-B cells by transduction with the reprogramming factors
   Oct4, Sox2, c-Myc and Klf4 and from mature B cells by the
   additional over expression of C/EBPa, a well-characterized
15 myeloid transcription factor. This work shows that the
   reprogrammed cells carried the genetic rearrangements
   characteristic of donor non-terminally differentiated and
   mature terminally differentiated B cells and were able to
   generate adult chimeric mice and contribute to germline.
20 These results indicate that specific combinations of
   reprogramming factors can reset the genome of terminally
   differentiated cells to a pluripotent state.
        The work described herein provides conclusive evidence
   that terminally differentiated mature B cells obtained from
25 adult mice can be directly reprogrammed into ES-like cells
   in vitro. The donor B cell population that eventually
   underwent successful reprogramming had completed a complex
   differentiation pathway involving epigenetic and genetic
   changes: an initial commitment to the hematopoietic and
30 subsequently to the B cell lineage; acquisition of
   productive heavy and light chain rearrangements;  egression

                                 -24
   from the bone marrow to repopulate peripheral lymphoid
   organs in adult mice, and as observed in one of the cell
   lines obtained, acquisition of somatic hypermutations in
   variable region of B cell receptor genes in response to
 5 antigen stimuli. Thus, robust ectopic expression of Oct4,
   Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and C/EBPa transcription factors induced
   reprogramming of fully differentiated lymphoid cells to
   pluripotency with a relatively high efficiency of -1 in 30
   cells.
10       Importantly, results described herein demonstrate that
   under similar induction levels of Qct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc
   transgenes in the B cell lineage, non-terminally
   differentiated and terminally differentiated B cells respond
   differently to these factors. Robust reprogramming of fully
15 differentiated mature B lymphocytes to pluripotency was
   achieved when the C/EBPa transcription factor, which
   normally plays a role in granulocyte cell fate
   specification, was initially over-expressed (Ramji and Foka,
   2002).  Thomas Graf and colleagues  (Xie et al., 2004) have
20 shown that overexpression of C/EBPa converted B cells into
   macrophage-like cells by downregulating B cell late specific
   markers (e.g., CD19) through inhibition of Pax5 functions
   and facilitating extinction of the early B cell regulators,
   EBF1 and E2A transcription factors. In addition, C/EBPa
25 induced up-regulation of components of a myeloid
   transcriptional network (Laiosa et al.,   2006; Xie et al.,
   2004).  These observations are relevant for understanding the
   mechanisms of reprogramming and suggest a crucial role for
   C/EBPa in inducing the reprogramming process of mouse mature
30 B lymphocytes. This suggests a number of mutually non
   exclusive possibilities:

                                  -25
        1) C/EBPa may cross-antagonize key regulators of the B
   cell transcriptional network that maintain the mature B cell
   identity. This may facilitate the dedifferentiation of B
   cells to a less differentiated state, allowing Oct4, Sox2,
 5 Klf4 and c-Myc transgene-induced reprogramming. This
   explanation is consistent with observations that the
   differentiation state of the donor cells is known to
   influence the efficiency of reprogramming by nuclear
   transplantation, as neural and keratinocyte stem cells were
10 more efficiently reprogrammed than other more differentiated
   cells obtained from the same lineage (Blelloch et al.,      2006;
   Li et al., 2007). As conditional deletion of Pax5 in mature
   B cells resulted in their dedifferentiation and loss of
   several mature B cell markers     (Cobaleda et al., 2007a),  it
15 may be that deletion of Pax5 would also sensitize mature B
   cells to reprogramming to pluripotency by Oct4, Sox2, Klf4
   and c-Myc.
         2) C/EBPa may convert mature B cells into macrophage
   like cells  (Xie et al.,  2004) which have a different
20 epigenetic state that possibly allows enhanced accessibility
   to target genes of Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and/or c-Myc that would
   facilitate the efficient induction of the endogenous auto
   regulatory loop governing the pluripotent state     (Boyer et
   al., 2005; Loh et al.,   2006).
25      3) C/EBPa-mediated overexpression may enable mature B
   cells to transition from a state of growing in suspension to
   become adherent cells in the presence of OP9 cells, which
   might be a rate-limiting event in their reprogramming.
        4) Finally, other combinations of factors than those
30 used in the examples may be able to reprogram mature B
   lymphocytes under different culture conditions.

                                -26
        Applicants have devised novel methods of reprogramming
   somatic cells, e.g., partially or fully differentiated
   somatic cells, to generate pluripotent cells or multipotent
 5 cells.  It should be noted that the methods of the invention
   are not intended to encompass prior art methods including,
   but not limited to, somatic cell nuclear transfer.    That is,
   it is not within the scope of the invention to reprogram a
   somatic cell by contacting the nucleus of said cell with the
10 intact cytoplasm of an oocyte, i.e., by transferring the
   nucleus of said cell into an enucleated oocyte.    While some
   embodiments of the invention encompass methods of
   reprogramming a nucleus of a somatic cell which has been
   isolated from the cytoplasm in which it is ordinarily
15 contained, and optionally subsequently transferring said
   nucleus to an enucleated cell of the same or different cell
   type, these embodiments do not encompass methods in which
   the reprogramming agent is an enucleated oocyte.    Applicants
   have also devised novel methods to identify agents that,
20 alone or in combination with other factors and/or
   conditions, reprogram somatic cells.
        Certain of the methods of the invention make use of
   characteristics that differ between ES cells   (e.g., ES cells
   generated using conventional methods described in the
25 Background) and somatic cells.   These characteristics
   distinguish ES cells from somatic cells that have not been
   reprogrammed and are used as a basis to identify
   reprogrammed cells  (induced pluripotent cells) in certain of
   the methods.
30      One such characteristic is the increased ability of ES
   cells to survive demethylation of genomic DNA relative to

                                 -27
   somatic cells.   Somatic cells are treated in any of a
   variety of ways that may result in reprogramming, and the
   cells are subjected to a procedure that results in DNA
   demethylation.   In certain embodiments of  the invention,
 5 somatic cells that are able to survive the procedure are
   identified as being reprogrammed or having an increased
   likelihood of being reprogrammed relative to cells which are
   not able to survive the procedure. In certain embodiments of
   the invention a candidate reprogramming agent, e.g.,    a
10 treatment or factor, that has resulted in at least a portion
   of the cells becoming resistant to DNA demethylation (i.e.,
   able to survive under conditions of DNA methylation) is
   identified as an agent useful for reprogramming a somatic
   cell.
15       Another characteristic of ES cells that distinguishes
   them from somatic cells is that ES cells contain two
   transcriptionally active X chromosomes, whereas in somatic
   cells'one X chromosome is normally largely or completely
   transcriptionally inactive   (see Avner, P. and Heard, E.,
20 Nature Reviews Genetics, 2:   59-67, 2001; Eggan, K.,  et al.,
   Science, 290(5496):1578-81, 2000).    According to one
   embodiment of the invention, somatic cells are treated in
   any of a variety of ways that may result in reprogramming.
   The treatment can be, for example, contacting the cells with
25 a candidate reprogramming agent, e.g., a treatment or
   factor.   In certain embodiments of the invention, cells in
   which both X chromosomes are transcriptionally active are
   identified as reprogrammed or having an increased likelihood
   of being reprogrammed relative to cells in which only one X
30 chromosome is transcriptionally active.    In certain
   embodiments of the invention a candidate reprogramming

                               -28
   agent, e.g., a treatment or factor, that has resulted in at
   least a portion of the cells having two transcriptionally
   active X chromosomes is identified as a treatment useful for
   reprogramming a somatic cell.   In some embodiments, one step
 5 of the method involves selecting for cells that have only
   one transcriptionally active X chromosome, and a subsequent
   step of the method comprises selecting for cells that have
   activated their inactive X chromosome.
        Certain other of the methods take advantage of the
10 engineered somatic cells designed by Applicants, in which an
   endogenous gene typically associated with pluripotency
   ("pluripotency gene") is engineered to be operably linked to
   a selectable marker in a manner that the expression of the
   endogenous pluripotency gene substantially matches the
15 expression of the selectable marker.   Because pluripotency
   genes are generally expressed only in pluripotent cells and
   not in somatic cells, the expression of an endogenous
   pluripotency gene(s) is an indication of successful
   reprogramming.  Having a selectable marker operably linked
20 to an endogenous pluripotency gene gives one a powerful
   mechanism to select for potentially reprogrammed somatic
   cells, which may be a rare occurrence.   The resulting cells
   may be alternatively or additionally assessed for other
   pluripotency characteristics to confirm whether a somatic
25 cell has been successfully reprogrammed to pluripotency.
        Accordingly, in one embodiment the invention relates to
   a method of reprogramming one or more somatic cells, e.g.,
   partially differentiated or fully/terminally differentiated
   somatic cells, to a less differentiated state, e.g.,  a
30 pluripotent or multipotent state. In general the method
   comprises the steps of contacting the somatic cell or

                                -29
   isolated somatic cell nucleus with at least one
   reprogramming agent that contributes to reprogramming of the
   cell to a pluripotent state; maintaining the cell under
   conditions appropriate for proliferation of the cell and for
 5 activity of the reprogramming agent for a period of time
   sufficient to activate an endogenous pluripotency gene, and
   functionally inactivating the reprogramming agent, e.g.,
   inactivating or removing the reprogramming agent. In further
   embodiments the invention also relates to reprogrammed
10 somatic cells produced by methods of the invention and to
   uses of said cells.
        Generating pluripotent or multipotent cells by using
   the methods of the present invention has at least two
   advantages. First, the methods of the present invention
15 allow one to generate autologous pluripotent cells, which
   are cells specific to a patient.   The use of autologous
   cells in cell therapy offers a major advantage over the use
   of non-autologous cells, which are more likely to be subject
   to immunological rejection. In contrast, autologous cells
20 are less likely to elicit significant immunological
   responses.  Second, the methods of the present invention
   allow one to generate pluripotent cells without using
   embryos, oocytes and/or nuclear transfer technology.
25 Terminology
        The articles "a",  "an" and "the" as used herein, unless
   clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to
   include the plural referents. Claims or descriptions that
   include "or" between one or more members of a group are
30 considered satisfied if one, more than one, or all of the
   group members are present in, employed in, or otherwise

                               -30
   relevant to a given product or process unless indicated to
   the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. It
   should it be understood that, in general, where the
   invention, or aspects of the invention, is/are referred to
 5 as comprising particular elements, features, etc.,  certain
   embodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention
   consist, or consist essentially of, such elements, features,
   etc.  For purposes of simplicity those embodiments have not
   in every case been specifically set forth in haec verba
10 herein. It should also be understood that any embodiment of
   the invention, e.g., any embodiment found within the prior
   art, can be explicitly excluded from the claims, regardless
   of whether the specific exclusion is recited in the
   specification. For example, any agent may be excluded from
15 the set of candidate reprogramming agents, and any gene can
   be excluded from the set of pluripotency genes.
        Where ranges are given herein, the invention includes
   embodiments in which the endpoints are included, embodiments
   in which both endpoints are excluded, and embodiments in
20 which one endpoint is included and the other is excluded.
   It should be assumed that both endpoints are included unless
   indicated otherwise.  Furthermore, it is to be understood
   that unless otherwise indicated or otherwise evident from
   the context and understanding of one of skill in the art,
25 values that are expressed as ranges can assume any specific
   value or subrange within the stated ranges in different
   embodiments of the invention, to the tenth of the unit of
   the lower limit of the range, unless the context clearly
   dictates otherwise.  It is also understood that where a
30 series of numerical values is stated herein, the invention
   includes embodiments that relate analogously to any

                               -31
   intervening value or range defined by any two values in the
   series, and that the lowest value may be taken as a minimum
   and the greatest value may be taken as a maximum.   Numerical
   values, as used herein, include values expressed as
 5 percentages.  For any embodiment of the invention in which a
   numerical value is prefaced by "about" or "approximately",
   the invention includes an embodiment in which the exact
   value is recited.  For any embodiment of the invention in
   which a numerical value is not prefaced by "about" or
10 "approximately", the invention includes an embodiment in
   which the value is prefaced by "about" or "approximately".
   "Approximately" or "about" generally includes numbers that
   fall within a range of 1% or in some embodiments 5% of a
   number in either direction (greater than or less than the
15 number) unless otherwise stated or otherwise evident from
   the context (except where such number would impermissibly
   exceed 100% of a possible value).
        Furthermore, it is to be understood that the invention
   encompasses all variations, combinations, and permutations
20 in which one or more limitations, elements, clauses,
   descriptive terms, etc., from one or more of the listed
   claims is introduced into another claim dependent on the
   same base claim (or, as relevant, any other claim) unless
   otherwise indicated or unless it would be evident to one of
25 ordinary skill in the art that a contradiction or
   inconsistency would arise.  Where elements are presented as
   lists, e.g., in Markush group or similar format, it is to be
   understood that each subgroup of the elements is also
   disclosed, and any element(s) can be removed from the group.
30      Certain claims are presented in dependent form for the
   sake of convenience, but any dependent claim may be

                                 -32
   rewritten in independent format to include the limitations
   of the independent claim and any other claim(s) on which
   such claim depends, and such rewritten claim is to be
   considered equivalent in all respects to the dependent claim
 5  (either amended or unamended) prior to being rewritten in
   independent format.    It should also be understood that,
   unless clearly indicated to the contrary, in any methods
   claimed herein that include more than one act, the order of
   the acts of the method is not necessarily limited to the
10 order in which the acts of the method are recited, but the
   invention includes embodiments in which the order is so
   limited. It is contemplated that all embodiments described
   above are applicable to all different aspects of the
   invention. It is also contemplated that any of the above
15 embodiments can be freely combined with one or more other
   such embodiments whenever appropriate.
   Somatic Cells
         Somatic cells of the invention may be primary cells
20  (non-immortalized cells), such as those freshly isolated
   from an animal, or may be derived from a cell line
    (immortalized cells).  The cells may be maintained in cell
   culture following their isolation from a subject. In certain
   embodiments the cells are passaged once or more than once
25  (e.g., between 2-5,  5-10, 10-20, 20-50, 50-100 times, or
   more) prior to their use in a method of the invention. In
   some embodiments the cells will have been passaged no more
   than 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, or 50 times prior to their use in a
   method of the invention. They may be frozen, thawed, etc.
30 In certain embodiments of the invention the somatic cells
   are obtained from a female. The somatic cells used may be

                                -33
   native somatic cells, or engineered somatic cells, i.e.,
   somatic cells which have been genetically altered.
        Somatic cells of the present invention are typically
   mammalian cells, such as, for example, human cells, primate
 5 cells or mouse cells. They may be obtained by well-known
   methods and can be obtained from any organ or tissue
   containing live somatic cells, e.g., blood, bone marrow,
   skin, lung, pancreas, liver, stomach, intestine, heart,
   reproductive organs, bladder, kidney, urethra and other
10 urinary organs, etc.   Mammalian somatic cells useful in the
   present invention include, but are not limited to, sertoli
   cells, endothelial cells, granulosa epithelial, neurons,
   pancreatic islet cells, epidermal cells, epithelial cells,
   hepatocytes, hair follicle cells, keratinocytes,
15 hematopoietic cells, melanocytes, chondrocytes, lymphocytes
   (B and T lymphocytes),  erythrocytes, macrophages, monocytes,
   mononuclear cells, cardiac muscle cells, and other muscle
   cells, etc.  The term "somatic cells", as used herein, also
   includes adult stem cells.   An adult stem cell is a cell
20 that is capable of giving rise to all cell types of a
   particular tissue.   Exemplary adult stem cells include
   hematopoietic stem cells, neural stem cells, and mesenchymal
   stem cells.
        In some embodiments cells are selected based on their
25 expression of an endogenous marker known to be expressed
   only or primarily in a desired cell type.    For example,
   vimentin is a fibroblast marker.    Other useful markers
   include various keratins, cell adhesion molecules such as
   cadherins, fibronectin, CD molecules, etc.    The population
30 of somatic cells may have an average cell cycle time of
   between 18 and 96 hours, e.g.,   between 24-48 hours, between

                                 -34
   48-72 hours,  etc.  In some embodiments, at least 90%, 95%,
   981,  99%, or more of the cells would be expected to divide
   within a predetermined time such as 24, 48, 72, or 96 hours.
         Methods of the invention may be used to reprogram one
 5 or more somatic cells, e.g.,   colonies or populations of
   somatic cells.   In some embodiments a population of cells of
   the present invention is substantially uniform in that at
   least 90% of the cells display a phenotype or characteristic
   of interest.  In some embodiments at least 95%,   96%, 97%,
10 98,   99%, 99.5%, 99.8%,  99.9, 99.95% or more of the cells
   display a phenotype or characteristic of interest. In
   certain embodiments of the invention the somatic cells have
   the capacity to divide, i.e.,    the somatic cells are not
   post-mitotic.   The cells may, for example, have an average
15 cell cycle time (i.e.,   time required for a cell to complete
   a single cell division cycle) of between 18-72 hours, e.g.,
   between 24-48 hours when maintained in culture under
   standard culture conditions known in the art.
         Differentiated somatic cells of the invention are
20 partially or completely differentiated.     Differentiation is
   the process by which a less specialized cell becomes a more
   specialized cell type.    Cell differentiation can involve
   changes in the size, shape, polarity, metabolic activity,
   gene expression and/or responsiveness to signals of the
25 cell.   For example, hematopoietic stem cells differentiate
   to give rise to all the blood cell types including myeloid
   (monocytes and macrophages, neutrophils, basophils,
   eosinophils, erythrocytes, megakaryocytes/platelets,
   dendritic cells) and lymphoid lineages (T-cells, B-cells,
30 NK-cells).   During progression along the path of
   differentiation, the ultimate fate of a cell becomes more

                                -35
   fixed.  As shown by work described herein, both partially
   differentiated somatic cells   (e.g., immature B cells such as
   pre-B cells and pro-B cells) and fully differentiated
   somatic cells  (e.g., mature B cells, non-naive mature B
 5 cells) can be reprogrammed as described herein to produce
   multipotent or pluripotent cells    (also known as "induced
   pluripotent cells").
   Reprogramming and Pluripotent Cells
10      Differentiation status of cells is a continuous
   spectrum, with a terminally differentiated state at one end
   of this spectrum and de-differentiated state     (pluripotent
   state) at the other end.   Reprogramming, as used herein,
   refers to a process that alters or reverses the
15 differentiation status of a somatic cell, which can be
   either partially or terminally differentiated.
   Reprogramming includes complete reversion, as well as
   partial reversion, of the differentiation status of a
   somatic cell.   In other words, the term "reprogramming", as
20 used herein, encompasses any movement of the differentiation
   status of a cell along the spectrum toward a less
   differentiated state.   For example, reprogramming includes
   reversing a multipotent cell back to a pluripotent cell, and
   reversing a terminally differentiated cell back to either a
25 multipotent cell or a pluripotent cell.     In one embodiment,
   reprogramming of a somatic cell turns the somatic cell all
   the way back to a pluripotent state.     In another embodiment,
   reprogramming of a somatic cell turns the somatic cell back
   to a multipotent state.   The term "less-differentiated
30 state", as used herein, is thus a relative term and includes

                                -36
   a completely de-differentiated state and a partially
   differentiated state.
         A pluripotent cell is a cell that has the potential to
   divide in vitro for a long period of time   (e.g., greater
 5 than one year) and has the unique ability to differentiate
   into cells derived from all three embryonic germ layers-
   endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm. Pluripotent cells have the
   potential to differentiate into the full range of daughter
   cells having distinctly different morphological, cytological
10 or functional phenotypes unique to a specific tissue. By
   contrast, descendants of pluripotent cells are restricted
   progressively in their differentiation potential, with some
   cells having only one fate. A multipotent cell is a cell
   that is able to differentiate into some but not all of the
15 cells derived from all three germ layers. Thus, a
   multipotent cell is a partially differentiated cell. Adult
   stem cells are also multipotent or partially differentiated
   cells. Known adult stem cells include, for example,
   hematopoietic stem cells and neural stem cells.
20
   Treatment of Somatic Cell(s) with Reprogramming Agent
         As described herein, one or more (e.g., a population or
   colony) somatic cells, e.g.,  differentiated somatic cells,
   is treated or contacted with at least one reprogramming
25 agent or factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
   cell.   The terms "contact", "contacting", "treat",
   "treating", etc.,  are used interchangeably herein and
   include subjecting a cell to any kind of process or
   condition or performing any kind of procedure on the cell.
30 The treatment can be, by way of non-limiting example,
   contacting the cells with a known or candidate reprogramming

                                 -37
   agent   (e.g., an agent which alters the chromatin structure
   of the cell, an agent which decreases DNA methylation, an
   agent which decreases histone acetylation) transfecting the
   cells with a polynucleotide encoding a reprogramming agent,
 5 and/or culturing the cells under conditions that differ from
   standard culture conditions in which such cells are
   typically maintained.    For example, the temperature or pH
   could be varied.    Multiple known or candidate reprogramming
   agents may be used concurrently/simultaneously or
10 sequentially. In another embodiment, methods of the
   invention may further include repeating the steps of
   treating the cells with an agent or factor, The agent used
   in the repeating treatment may be the same as, or different
   from, the one used during the first treatment.
15 Reprogramming agents of the invention can be
   polynucleotides, polypeptides, small molecules, etc.
         The cells may be contacted with a reprogramming factor
   or agent for varying periods of time. In some embodiments
   the cells are contacted with the agent for a period of time
20 between 1 hour and 30 days.    In some embodiments the cells
   are contacted with the agent for a period of time sufficient
   to reprogram the cell or to activate an endogenous
   pluripotency gene.    For example, the period may be 1 day, 5
   days, 7 days, 10 days, 12 days, 14 days or 20 days.    The
25 reprogramming agent may be removed or inactivated prior to
   performing a selection to enrich for pluripotent cells or
   assessing the cells for pluripotency characteristics.
         According to some embodiments of the invention, after
   the somatic cell(s) are contacted with the reprogramming
30 agent or factor, they are maintained under conditions
   appropriate for proliferation of the cell and for activity

                                 -38
   of the reprogramming agent or factor for a time sufficient
   to reprogram the cell or to activate at least one endogenous
   pluripotency gene. Cells may be maintained in culture for
   varying periods of time while reprogramming takes place,
 5 prior to selection of or enrichment for reprogrammed cells.
   Thus in certain methods, somatic cells which have been
   contacted with a reprogramming agent or factor are
   maintained in culture for more than 3 days prior to
   identifying or selecting for reprogrammed cells.     In some
10 methods, said cells are maintained in culture for at least
   4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,  11, 12,  13, 14,  15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
   20, 21 or more days  (e.g., between 3-5 weeks) prior to
   identifying or selecting for reprogrammed cells.
         In addition, in particular embodiments of the
15 invention the somatic cells which have been contacted with
   one or more reprogramming agents according to the described
   methods are maintained under conditions appropriate for
   proliferation of said cells.    Conditions appropriate for the
   maintenance and proliferation of particular cell types will
20 be apparent to the skilled artisan.     Specialized culture
   medium may be obtained from commercial sources, or factors
   necessary or desirable for enhancing the proliferation may
   be added to standard culture medium.     Additional factors and
   agents may also be added to culture medium, for example, to
25 induce expression of inducible elements in said cells or to
   inhibit growth of cells which are sensitive to particular
   agents.
        By way of non-limiting example, DNA methylation
   inhibitors and histone deacelyation inhibitors are two
30 classes of agents that may be used in the methods of the
   invention; exemplary agents include 5-aza-cytidine, TSA and

                                -39
   valproic acid. As described herein, DNA methylation
   inhibitors are also of use to identify cells that have been
   reprogrammed, regardless of whether a DNA methylation
   inhibitor contributes to the reprogramming. Thus in some
 5 embodiments of the invention the reprogramming agent is not
   a DNA methylation inhibitor, e.g., it has no detectable
   effect on DNA methylation or reduces DNA methylation by less
   than 1%.  In some embodiments the reprogramming agent reduces
   DNA methylation by less than 5% and/or inhibits DNMT1, 3a,
10 and/or 3b activity by less than 1% or less than 5%.
         In certain embodiments of the invention the
   reprogramming agent or factor is exogenously introduced to
   the cell.   "Exogenously introduced" is used consistently
   with its meaning in the art to refer to a polynucleotide (or
15 other substance including but not limited to a small
   molecule or protein) which has been introduced into a cell
   or an ancestor of the cell from outside the cell   (typically
   by a process that involves the hand of man) and/or is either
   not found in nature in cells of that type or is found in a
20 different sequence, context and/or in different amounts.
        In some embodiments, reprogramming agents are
   introduced into cells using viral transduction, e.g.,
   retroviral or lentiviral transduction.   In particular
   embodiments the vector used is not subject to methylation
25 induced silencing.   In some embodiments the vector is a non
   replicating vector, and in some embodiments the vector is a
   non-integrating vector.   In particular embodiments the
   vector is an integrating vector which is able to be excised
   from the cell's genome, e.g.,  able to be excised such that
30 the cell's genome after excision is substantially similar or
   identical to the genome of the cell prior to integration of

                                 -40
   the vector.   In some embodiments, reprogramming agents are
   introduced into cells using protein transduction or
   transient transfection of a nucleic acid construct that
   encodes a protein effective either by itself or in
 5 combination with other reprogramming agent(s) to reprogram
   the cells.   optionally cells are subjected to an electric
   field and/or contacted with an agent that enhances cell
   permeability to increase uptake of the reprogramming agent.
   In some embodiments, at least one of Oct4, Sox2, Klf4,
10 Nanog, Lin28 and c-Myc may be exogenously introduced into
   somatic cells using such methods.     In one embodiment Oct4,
   Sox2 and Klf4 are introduced into the cell(s),    while in
   another embodiment Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc are introduced
   into the cells(s).    In another embodiment Oct4, Sox2, Nanog
15 and Lin28 are introduced into the cell(s).
         Genes that affect the pluripotent state of a cell and
   thus are candidate reprogramming agents include pluripotency
   genes, genes involved in chromatin remodeling, and genes
   that are important for maintaining pluripotency, such as
20 LIF, BMP, and PD098059   (Cell, 115: 281-292  (2003); Philos
   Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2003 Aug 29;358(1436):1397
   402).  Thomson et al. used Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, and Lin28 using
   a lentiviral system to reprogram adult human cells    (Thomson
   et al.,  Science 5854:  1224-1225  (11/23/2007)). Other genes
25 that can affect whether or not a cell is pluripotent include
   certain oncogenes, such as c-myc. Other genes include
   telomerase, e.g.,  the gene encoding the catalytic subunit of
   telomerase.   Yet other genes include Sox1, Sox2, Sox3, Sox
   15, Sox18, FoxD3, Stat3, N-Myc, L-Myc, Klfl, Klf2, Klf4 and
30 Klf5. Other genes of interest include those encoding
   microRNA precursors that have been associated with

                               -41
   multipotency or pluripotency and/or that is naturally
   expressed in multipotent or pluripotent cells.  Optionally
   the gene is downregulated as the cells differentiate and/or
   is not expressed in adult somatic cells.  Other
 5 polynucleotides of interest include those encoding RNAi
   agents such as shRNAs targeted to a gene that is a target of
   an endogenous microRNA that is naturally expressed in
   multipotent or pluripotent cells.
        In addition, additional factors may be overexpressed or
10 exogenously expressed in the somatic cell to facilitate
   reprogramming.  For example, factors which assist in
   inducing the cell to assume a less differentiated state may
   be expressed in the cell.  As described herein, C/EBPa has
   been shown to assist in the reprogramming of mature B cells.
15 Other members of the C/EBPa family, such as human homologs
   of C/EBPa may be similarly useful.
        It will be understood that throughout the embodiments
   of the invention, encoded polypeptides may be exogenously
   introduced into a cell instead of or in addition to
20 exogenous introduction of a polynucleotide encoding said
   polypeptide unless otherwise indicated or implied from
   context.  In addition, it will be understood that reference
   to a "gene" herein is intended to encompass the coding
   sequence of the gene with or without the endogenous
25 regulatory elements of the gene and with or without intronic
   sequence elements unless otherwise indicated or implied from
   context.
        Expression of an exogenously introduced polynucleotide
   may be carried out in several ways. In one embodiment, the
30 exogenously introduced polynucleotide may be expressed from
   a chromosomal locus different from the endogenous

                                -42
   chromosomal locus of the polynucleotide.   Such chromosomal
   locus may be a locus with open chromatin structure, and
   contain genes)   dispensible for a somatic cell. In other
   words, the desirable chromosomal locus contains gene(s)
 5 whose disruption will not cause cells to die.    Exemplary
   chromosomal loci include, for example, the mouse ROSA 26
   locus and type II collagen (Col2al) locus   (See Zambrowicz et
   al., 1997). The exogenously introduced polynucleotide may be
   expressed from an inducible promoter such that its
10 expression can be regulated as desired.
        In an alternative embodiment, the exogenously
   introduced polynucleotide may be transiently transfected
   into cells, either individually or as part of a cDNA
   expression library;   In one embodiment the cDNA expression
15 library can be prepared from pluripotent cells, including
   but not limited to embryonic stem cells, oocytes,
   blastomeres, inner cell mass cells, embryonic germ cells,
   embryoid body (embryonic) cells, morula-derived cells,
   teratoma  (teratocarcinoma) cells, and multipotent partially
20 differentiated embryonic stem cells taken from later in the
   embryonic development process.   Candidate reprogramming
   agents may be identified from such libraries.
        The cDNA library is prepared by conventional
   techniques. Briefly, mRNA is isolated from an organism of
25 interest. An RNA-directed DNA polymerase is employed for
   first strand synthesis using the mRNA as template. Second
   strand synthesis is carried out using a DNA-directed DNA
   polymerase which results in the cDNA product. Following
   conventional processing to facilitate cloning of the cDNA,
30 the cDNA is inserted into an expression vector such that the
   cDNA is operably linked to at least one regulatory sequence.

                                -43
   The choice of expression vectors for use in connection with
   the cDNA library is not limited to a particular vector. Any
   expression vector suitable for use in mouse cells is
   appropriate. In one embodiment, the promoter which drives
 5 expression from the cDNA expression construct is an
   inducible promoter.  The term regulatory sequence includes
   promoters, enhancers and other expression control elements.
   Exemplary regulatory sequences are described in Goeddel;
   Gene Expression Technology:   Methods in Enzymology, Academic
10 Press, San Diego, CA (1990).  For instance, any of a wide
   variety of expression control sequences that control the
   expression of a DNA sequence when operatively linked to it
   may be used in these vectors to express cDNAs.   Such useful
   expression control sequences, include, for example, the
15 early and late promoters of SV40, tet promoter, adenovirus
   or cytomegalovirus immediate early promoter, the lac system,
   the trp system, the TAC or TRC system, T7 promoter whose
   expression is directed by T7 RNA polymerase, the major
   operator and promoter regions of phage lambda ,  the control
20 regions for fd coat protein, the promoter for 3
   phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, the
   promoters of acid phosphatase, e.g.,  Pho5, the promoters of
   the yeast a-mating factors, the polyhedron promoter of the
   baculovirus system and other sequences known to control the
25 expression of genes of prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or
   their viruses, and various combinations thereof.   It should
   be understood that the design of the expression vector may
   depend on such factors as the choice of the host cell to be
   transformed and/or the type of protein desired to be
30 expressed.  Moreover, the vector's copy number, the ability
   to control that copy number and the expression of any other

                                 -44
   protein encoded by the vector, such as antibiotic markers,
   should also be considered.
         The exogenously introduced polynucleotide may be
   expressed from an inducible promoter.     The term "inducible
 5 promoter", as used herein, refers to a promoter that, in the
   absence of an inducer   (such as a chemical and/or biological
   agent),  does not direct expression, or directs low levels of
   expression of an operably linked gene (including cDNA),     and,
   in response to an inducer, its ability to direct expression
10 is enhanced.   Exemplary inducible promoters include, for
   example, promoters that respond to heavy metals     (CRC Boca
   Raton, Fla. (1991), 167-220; Brinster et al. Nature (1982),
   296, 39-42),  to thermal shocks, to hormones   (Lee et al.
   P.N.A.S. USA (1988), 85, 1204-1208;    (1981), 294,  228-232;
15 Klock et al. Nature (1987), 329, 734-736; Israel and
   Kaufman, Nucleic Acids Res. (1989), 17, 2589-2604),
   promoters that respond to chemical agents, such as glucose,
   lactose, galactose or antibiotic    (e.g., tetracycline or
   doxycycline).
20       A tetracycline-inducible promoter is an example of an
   inducible promoter that responds to an antibiotic.      See
   Gossen et al.,  2003.  The tetracycline-inducible promoter
   comprises a minimal promoter linked operably to one or more
   tetracycline operator(s).    The presence of tetracycline or
25 one of its analogues leads to the binding of a transcription
   activator to the tetracycline operator sequences, which
   activates the minimal promoter and hence the transcription
   of the associated cDNA.    Tetracycline analogue includes any
   compound that displays structural homologies with
30 tetracycline and is capable of activating a tetracycline
   inducible promoter.   Exemplary tetracycline analogues

                                -45
   includes, for example, doxycycline, chlorotetracycline and
   anhydrotetracycline.   Also of use are tetracycline
   repressible promoters.
        The aforementioned methods may be used to express any
 5 of the exogenously introduced polynucleotides described
   herein in a somatic cell.   For example, they may be used to
   express a ploynucleotide that encodes an RNAi agent targeted
   to an endogenous DNA methyltransferase or may be used to
   express a site-specific recombinase.
10      Applicant discovered that the exogenously introduced
   factors may be dispensable for maintenance of the
   pluripotent phenotype.   For example, expression of
   exogenously introduced polynucleotides Oct4, Sox2 and Klf4
   are dispensable for maintenance of the pluripotent
15 phenotype. The invention therefore comprises the recognition
   that reprogrammed somatic cells can be modified after being
   reprogrammed so as to render one or more introduced
   factor(s), e.g., polynucleotides, nonfunctional while
   retaining the ES-like phenotype of the cells.
20      In certain embodiments of the invention, rendering an
   introduced polynucleotides nonfunctional reduces potential
   concerns associated with introducing oncogenes into cells.
   Thus the invention comprises introducing one or more
   polynucleotides into a somatic cell, wherein said one or
25 more polynucleotides at least in part reprogram the cell to
   an ES-like state, identifying a cell that has been
   reprogrammed to an ES-like state, and functionally
   inactivating one or more of the introduced polynucleotides.
   The cells may be maintained in culture for a suitable time
30 period before inactivating the introduced polynucleotide(s).
   In one embodiment the time period may be selected to be

                                -46
   sufficient for the cells to begin displaying a marker or
   characteristic of pluripotency, to begin expressing an
   endogenous pluripotency gene, e.g., Oct-4 and/or Nanog, or
   to begin expressing a downstream target of an endogenous
 5 pluripotency gene.  In certain embodiments the exogenously
   introduced polynucleotide is regulated by an inducible
   regulatory element and functional inactivation is achieved
   by removal of the inducer of said element.
        Functional inactivation is also intended to encompass
10 removal or excision of the introduced polynucleotide.   In
   certain embodiments at least a portion of the one or more
   introduced polynucleotides is flanked by sites for a site
   specific recombinase.   The introduced polynucleotide can be
   functionally inactivated by expressing the recombinase in
15 the cell or introducing the recombinase into the cell.   The
   resulting reprogrammed somatic cell may lack any exogenously
   introduced coding sequences and/or regulatory elements.   The
   cell may be identical to a non-engineered somatic cell
   except that it contains one or more sites that remain
20 following recombination.
   Markers of Pluripotency
        Somatic cells which have been treated with one or more
   reprogramming agents are maintained in culture for a period
25 of time sufficient to begin reprogramming of the cell.
   Populations of treated cells may be analyzed in a variety of
   ways to identify the occurrence or non-occurrence of
   reprogramming.  That is, a population of treated cells can
   be further treated or analyzed to select  for or enrich for
30 cells which have begun the reprogramming process or to
   select against or decrease cells which have not begun the

                                -47
   reprogramming process.   Populations of treated somatic cells
   can be assessed to identify cells which do or do not display
   one or more markers or characteristics of reprogrammed,
   e.g., pluripotent, cells.   For example, said cell
 5 populations can be assessed to identify phenotypic,
   functional or genetic markers of reprogramming, including
   expression of one or more pluripotency genes and expression
   of one or more genes whose expression is activated directly
   or indirectly as a result of expression of the pluripotency
10 gene.   By way of non-limiting example, a population of cells
   can be assessed to identify expression of alkaline
   phosphatase, expression of SSEA1, expression of SSEA3,
   expression of SSEA4, expression of TRAF-60, expression of
   Nanog, expression of Oct4, expression of Fxbl5, morphology
15 characteristic of an ES cell or an ES cell colony, ability
   to participate in formation of chimeras that survive to
   term, ability to differentiate into cells having
   characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm when
   injected into SCID mice, presence of two active X
20 chromosomes, resistance to DNA methylation, and combinations
   thereof.   A population of cells can also be assessed to
   identify the absence of any of the markers of reprogramming
   to identify cells which have not undergone reprogramming.
         The term "pluripotency gene", as used herein, refers to
25 a gene that is associated with pluripotency.   The expression
   of a pluripotency gene is typically restricted to
   pluripotent cells, e.g.,  pluripotent stem cells, and is
   crucial for the functional identity of pluripotent cells.
   It will be appreciated that the protein encoded by a
30 pluripotency gene may be present as a maternal factor in the
   oocyte, and the gene may be expressed by at least some cells

                                -48
   of the embryo, e.g.,  throughout at least a portion of the
   preimplantation period and/or in germ cell precursors of the
   adult.
         In some embodiments the pluripotency gene is one whose
 5 average expression level in ES cells of a mammal is at least
   5, 10, 20, 50, or 100-fold greater than its average per cell
   expression level in somatic cell types present in the body
   of an adult mammal of that type (e.g., mouse, human, farm
   animal).  In some embodiments the pluripotency gene is one
10 whose average expression level in ES cells is at least 5,
   10, 20, 50, or 100-fold greater than its average expression
   level in those terminally differentiated cell types present
   in the body of an adult mammal (e.g., mouse, human, farm
   animal).   In some embodiments the pluripotency gene is one
15 that is essential to maintain the viability or pluripotent
   state of ES cells derived using conventional methods,   Thus
   if the gene is knocked out or inhibited (i.e., eliminated or
   reduced),  the ES cells die or, in some embodiments,
   differentiate.   In some embodiments the pluripotency gene is
20 characterized in that inhibiting its expression in an ES
   cell (resulting in, e.g., a reduction in the average steady
   state level of RNA transcript and/or protein encoded by the
   gene by at least 20%,  30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
   95%, or more) results in a cell that is viable but no longer
25 pluripotent.   In some embodiments the pluripotency gene is
   characterized in that its expression in an ES cell decreases
   (resulting in, e.g.,  a reduction in the average steady state
   level of RNA transcript and/or protein encoded by the gene
   by at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or more) when the
30 cell differentiates into a terminally differentiated cell.

                                 -49
        The transcription factor Oct-4    (also called Pou5fl,
   Oct-3, Oct3/4) is an example of a pluripotency gene.     Oct-4
   has been shown to be required for establishing and
   maintaining the undifferentiated phenotype of ES cells and
 5 plays a major role in determining early events in
   embryogenesis and cellular differentiation (Nichols et al.,
   1998, Cell 95:379-391;   Niwa et al.,  2000, Nature Genet.
   24:372-376).  Oct-4 is down-regulated as stem cells
   differentiate into specialised cells.
10      Nanog is another example of a pluripotency gene.      Nanog
   is a divergent homeodomain protein that directs propagation
   of undifferentiated ES cells.     Nanog mRNA is present in
   pluripotent mouse and human cell lines, and absent from
   differentiated cells.    In pre-implantation embryos, Nanog is
15 restricted to founder cells from which ES cells can be
   derived.   Endogenous Nanog acts in parallel with cytokine
   stimulation of Stat3 to drive ES cell self-renewal.
   Elevated Nanog expression from transgene constructs is
   sufficient for clonal expansion of ES cells, bypassing Stat3
20 and maintaining Oct4 levels.    (See Chambers et al., 2003,
   Cell 113: 643-655; Mitsui et al.,    Cell. 2003, 113(5):631
   42). Other exemplary pluripotency genes include Sox2 and
   Stella (see Imamura et al.,    BMC Developmental Biology 2006,
   6:34, Bortvin et al. Development. 2003, 130(8):1673-80;
25 Saitou et al.,  Nature. 2002, 418   (6895):293-300).
        In certain embodiments of the invention the endogenous
   pluripotency gene is co-expressed with a selectable marker.
   For example, the endogenous pluripotency gene can be linked
   to a polynucleotide   (e.g., DNA) encoding a selectable marker
30 in such a manner that the selectable marker and the
   endogenous pluripotency gene are co-expressed.     As used

                               -50
   herein co-expression is intended to mean that expression of
   the selectable marker substantially matches the expression
   of the endogenous pluripotency gene.   In one embodiment, the
   differentiated somatic cells of the present invention
 5 comprise a first endogenous pluripotency gene linked to DNA
   encoding a first selectable marker in such a manner that the
   expression of the first selectable marker substantially
   matches the expression of the first endogenous pluripotency
   gene. The differentiated somatic cells may also be
10 engineered to comprise any number of endogenous pluripotency
   genes respectively linked to a distinct selectable marker.
   Thus, in another embodiment, the differentiated somatic
   cells of the present invention comprise two endogenous
   pluripotency genes, each of which is linked to DNA encoding
15 a distinct selectable marker.   In a further embodiment, the
   differentiated somatic cells of the present invention
   comprise three endogenous pluripotency genes, each of which
   is linked to DNA encoding a distinct selectable marker. The
   differentiated somatic cells may be further engineered to
20 have one or more pluripotency gene(s) expressed as a
   transgene under an inducible promoter.
        In one embodiment, somatic cells used in the methods
   comprise only one endogenous pluripotency gene linked to a
   first selectable marker, and the selection step is carried
25 out to select for the expression of the first selectable
   marker.  In an alternative embodiment, the somatic cells
   used in the methods comprise any number of endogenous
   pluripotency genes, each of which is linked to a distinct
   selectable marker respectively, and the selection step is
30 carried out to select for at least a subset of the
   selectable markers.  For example, the selection step may be

                                -51
   carried out to select for all the selectable markers linked
   to the various endogenous pluripotency genes.
         In one embodiment, somatic cells used in the method
   comprise a selectable marker linked to an endogenous
 5 pluripotency gene and an additional pluripotency gene
   expressed as a transgene under an inducible promoter.    For
   these cells, the method of reprogramming may comprise
   inducing the expression of the pluripotency transgene and
   select for the expression of the selectable marker.    The
10 method may further comprise contacting the somatic cells
   with-an agent that alters chromatin structure.
         For purposes of the present invention, it is not
   necessary that the expression level of the endogenous
   pluripotency gene and the selectable marker is the same or
15 even similar.   It is only necessary that the cells in which
   an endogenous pluripotency gene is activated will also
   express the selectable marker at a level sufficient to
   confer a selectable phenotype on the reprogrammed cells.
   For example, when the selectable marker is a marker that
20 confers resistance to a lethal drug (a "drug resistance
   marker"),  the cells are engineered in a way that allows
   cells in which an endogeneous pluripotency gene is activated
   to also express the drug resistance marker at a sufficient
   level to confer on reprogrammed cells resistance to lethal
25 drugs.   Thus, reprogrammed cells will survive and
   proliferate whereas non-reprogrammed cells will die.
         In certain embodiments of the invention the selectable
   marker is operably linked to expression control elements
   that regulate transcription from the endogenous pluripotency
30 gene.   The DNA encoding a selectable marker may be inserted
   downstream from the end of the open reading frame (ORF)

                                -52
   encoding the desired endogenous pluripotency gene, anywhere
   between the last nucleotide of the ORF and the first
   nucleotide of the polyadenylation site.   An internal
   ribosome entry site (IRES) may be placed in front of the DNA
 5 encoding the selectable marker.   Alternatively, the DNA
   encoding a selectable marker may be inserted anywhere within
   the ORF of the desired endogenous pluripotency gene,
   downstream of the promoter, with a termination signal.   An
   internal ribosome entry site (IRES) may be placed in front
10 of the DNA encoding the selectable marker.   In further
   embodiments the DNA encoding the selectable marker may be
   inserted anywhere within a gene whose expression is
   activated directly or indirectly as a result of expression
   of the pluripotency gene.   In some embodiments the DNA
15 encoding a selectable marker is inserted into an intron.    In
   some embodiments, the endogenous pluripotency gene into
   which the DNA has been inserted expresses a functional
   pluripotency gene product while in other embodiments it does
   not.   The selectable marker may be inserted into only one
20 allele, or both alleles, of the endogenous pluripotency
   gene.   In certain other embodiments an exogenous
   polynucleotide including a selectable marker operably linked
   to expression control elements that regulate transcription
   from the endogenous pluripotency gene is inserted into the
25 cellular genome at a location external to the locus of an
   endogenous pluripotency gene such that conditions
   appropriate to activate expression of the endogenous
   pluripotency gene also activate expression of the exogenous
   polynucleotide.
30       A selectable marker, as used herein, is a marker that,
   when expressed, confers upon recipient cells a selectable

                                -53
   phenotype, such as antibiotic resistance, resistance to a
   cytotoxic agent, nutritional prototrophy, or expression of a
   surface protein.   Other proteins whose expression can be
   readily detected such as a fluorescent or luminescent
 5 protein or an enzyme that acts on a substrate to produce a
   colored, fluorescent, or luminescent substance are also of
   use as selectable markers.   The presence of a selectable
   marker linked to an endogenous pluripotency gene makes it
   possible to identify and select reprogrammed cells in which
10 the endogenous pluripotency gene is expressed. A variety of
   selectable marker genes can be used, such as neomycin
   resistance gene (neo), puromycin resistance gene (puro),
   guanine phosphoribosyl transferase   (gpt), dihydrofolate
   reductase (DHFR), adenosine deaminase   (ada), puromycin-N
15 acetyltransferase (PAC), hygromycin resistance gene (hyg),
   multidrug resistance gene (mdr), thymidine kinase (TK),
   hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase    (HPRT),  and
   hisD gene.   Other markers include green fluorescent protein
    (GFP) blue, sapphire, yellow, red, orange, and cyan
20 fluorescent proteins and variants of any of these.
   Luminescent proteins such as luciferase    (e.g., firefly or
   Renilla luciferase) are also of use.    Systems based on
   enzyme reporters such as beta-galactosidase, alkaline
   phosphatase, chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, etc.,     are
25 also of use.   In some embodiments the marker is a secreted
   enzyme.   As will be evident to one of skill in the art, the
   term "selectable marker" as used herein can refer to a gene
   or to an expression product of the gene, e.g.,    an encoded
   protein.
30       In some embodiments the selectable marker confers a
   proliferation and/or survival advantage on cells that

                                 -54
   express it relative to cells that do not express it or that
   express it at significantly lower levels.     Such
   proliferation and/or survival advantage typically occurs
   when the cells are maintained under certain conditions,
 5 i.e.,  "selective conditions".    To ensure an effective
   selection, a population of cells can be maintained for a
   under conditions and for a sufficient period of time such
   that cells that do not express the marker do not proliferate
   and/or do not survive and are eliminated from the population
10 or their number is reduced to only a very small fraction of
   the population.   The process of selecting cells that express
   a marker that confers a proliferation and/or survival
   advantage by maintaining a population of cells under
   selective conditions so as to largely or completely
15 eliminate cells that do not express the marker is referred
   to herein as  "positive selection",   and the marker is said to
   be "useful for positive selection".      Markers useful for
   positive selection are of particular interest in embodiments
   of the invention in which an endogenous pluripotency gene is
20 linked to a selectable marker.
         Negative selection and markers useful for negative
   selection are also of interest in certain of the methods
   described herein.   Expression of such markers confers a
   proliferation and/or survival disadvantage on cells that
25 express the marker relative to cells that do not express the
   marker or express it at significantly lower levels (or,
   considered another way, cells that do not express the marker
   have a proliferation and/or survival advantage relative to
   cells that express the marker).     Cells that express the
30 marker can therefore be largely or completely eliminated

                               -55
   from a population of cells when maintained in selective
   conditions for a sufficient period of time.
        Certain markers of interest herein are useful for
   positive and negative selection depending on the particular
 5 selective conditions employed.  Thus under certain sets of
   conditions cells that express the marker have a
   proliferation and/or survival advantage relative to cells
   that do not express the marker while under other sets of
   conditions cells that express the marker have a
10 proliferation and/or survival disadvantage relative to cells
   that do not express the marker.  Two examples of such
   markers that are suitable for use in the invention are
   hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase  (IPRT), an enzyme
   that catalyzes certain reactions in which purine-type
15 compounds are synthesized and/or interconverted, and
   thymidine kinase (TK), which catalyzes certain reactions in
   which pyrimidine-type compounds are synthesized and/or
   interconverted. Under typical culture conditions DNA
   synthesis in mammalian cells proceeds through a main (de
20 novo) pathway in which glutamine and aspartate are used as
   initial substrates for a series of reactions leading to
   synthesis of purine-type (e.g., dATP and dGTP) and
   pyrimidine-type (e.g., dCTP and dTTP) nucleotides. When the
   de novo pathway is blocked, mammalian cells must utilize
25 alternative pathways to synthesize the needed nucleotides.
   The purine salvage pathway involves converting hypoxanthine
   to IMP, a reaction catalyzed by HPRT,. The second pathway
   converts thymidine to'dTMP, a reaction catalyzed by TK. Thus
   cells lacking HPRT expression (e.g., cells lacking a
30 functional copy of the HPRT gene) or lacking TK expression
   (e-g., cells lacking a functional copy of the TK gene) can

                               -56
   grow in standard culture medium but die in HAT medium, which
   contains aminopterin, hypoxanthine, and thymidine. In cells
   lacking HPRT endogenous expression, HPRT can be used as
   selectable marker whose expression may be selected for in
 5 HAT medium. Similarly, in cells lacking endogenous TK
   expression, TK can be used as a selectable marker whose
   expression may be selected for in HAT medium.
        In addition to the ability to select for cells that
   express HPRT or TK, it is also possible to select for cells
10 that lack expression of functional HPRT and/or TK, e.g.,
   cells that do not express one or both of these enzymes.
   HPRT converts certain otherwise non-toxic compounds
   including a variety of purine analogs such as 8-azaguanine
   (8-AZ) and 6-thioguanine (6-TG) into cytotoxic compounds. TK
15 converts certain pyrimidine analogs such as 5
   bromodeoxyuridine and trifluoro-methyl-thymidine into
   cytotoxic compounds. The cytotoxic compounds may have
   deleterious effects on cells e.g., by inhibiting enzymes
   involved in nucleic acid synthesis and/or becoming
20 incorporated into DNA, leading to mismatches and mutations.
   Thus in culture medium containing 8-AZ, 6-TG, etc., cells
   that express HPRT are at a growth disadvantage relative to
   cells that do not express HPRT or that express it at lower
   levels insufficient to fully support nucleic acid synthesis.
25 It is therefore possible to use these selective conditions
   to select for cells that lack HPRT activity. Similarly, in
   medium containing bromodeoxyuridine or trifluoro-methyl
   thymidine, cells that express TK are at a growth
   disadvantage relative to cells that lack TK expression or
30 express a lower and insufficient level of TK. It is

                               -57
   therefore possible to use these selective conditions to
   select for cells that lack TK activity.
        In some embodiments of the invention, a population of
   differentiated somatic cells which have been treated with
 5 one or more reprogramming agents or factors and then
   maintained for a suitable period of time are assayed to
   identify cells which display a marker of pluripotency.
        As described herein, differentiated somatic cells for
   use in the invention may the engineered differentiated
10 somatic cells can be obtained from a transgenic mouse
   comprising such engineered somatic cells.   Such transgenic
   mouse can be produced using standard techniques known in the
   art.  For example, Bronson et al. describe a technique for
   inserting a single copy of a transgene into a chosen
15 chromosomal site.  See Bronson et al.,  1996.  Briefly, a
   vector containing the desired integration construct  (for
   example, a construct containing a selectable marker linked
   to a pluripotency gene) is introduced into ES cells by
   standard techniques known in the art. The resulting ES cells
20 are screened for the desired integration event, in which the
   knock-in vector is integrated into the desired endogenous
   pluripotency gene locus such that the selectable marker is
   integrated into the genomic locus of the pluripotency gene
   and is under the control of the pluripotency gene promoter.
25 The desired ES cell is then used to produce a transgenic
   mouse in which all cell types contain the correct
   integration event. Desired types of cells may be selectively
   obtained from the transgenic mouse and maintained in vitro.
   In one embodiment, two or more transgenic mice may be
30 created, each carrying a distinct integration construct.
   These mice may then be bred to generate mice that carry

                                -58
   multiple desired integration constructs. For example, one
   type of transgenic mouse may be created to carry an
   endogenous pluripotency gene linked to a selectable marker,
   while a second type of transgenic mouse may be created to
 5 carry a pluripotency gene expressed as a transgene under an
   inducible promoter.  These two types of mice may then be
   bred to generate transgenic mice that have both a selectable
   marker linked to an endogenous pluripotency gene and an
   additional pluripotency gene expressed as a transgene under
10 an inducible promoter. These two pluripotency genes may or
   may not be the same. Many variables are contemplated: the
   identity of the endogenous pluripotency gene linked to
   marker, the identity of the pluripotency gene expressed as a
   transgene, and the number of the endogenous pluripotency
15 gene linked to a selectable marker, and the number of
   pluripotency gene expressed as a transgene. The present
   invention encompasses all possible combinations of these
   variables. In other embodiments one of the mice carries an
   endogenous pluripotency gene linked to a selectable marker
20 and one of the mice carries a DNA that encodes an RNAi agent
   targeted to a DNMT gene  (thereby capable of inhibiting the
   expression of the DNMT gene) as discussed further below.
        Alternatively, engineered differentiated somatic cells
   of the present invention may be produced by direct
25 introduction of the desired construct into somatic cells. A
   DNA construct may be introduced into cells by any standard
   technique known in the art, such as viral transfection
   (e.g., using an adenoviral system) or liposome-mediated
   transfection.  Any means known in the art to generate
30 somatic cells with targeted integration can be used to
   produce somatic cells of the invention, e.g.,  cells in which

                                 -59
   a selectable marker is operably linked to an endogenous
   pluripotency gene or cells in which an endogenous gene is
   rendered conditional by introducing a conditional promoter
   or sites for a site-specific recombinase into or near the
 5 gene.
         In mammalian cells, homologous recombination occurs at
   much lower frequency compared to non-homologous
   recombination.   To facilitate the selection of homologous
   recombination events over the non-homologous recombination
10 events, at least two enrichment methods have been developed:
   the positive-negative selection (PNS) method and the
   "promoterless" selection method (Sedivy and Dutriaux, 1999).
   Briefly, PNS, the first method, is in genetic terms a
   negative selection: it selects against recombination at the
15 incorrect (non-homologous) loci by relying on the use of a
   negatively selectable gene that is placed on the flanks of a
   targeting vector.   On the other hand, the second method, the
   "promoterless" selection, is a positive selection in genetic
   terms: it selects for recombination at the correct
20  (homologous) locus by relying on the use of a positively
   selectable gene whose expression is made conditional on
   recombination at the homologous target site.   The disclosure
   of Sedivy and Dutriaux is incorporated herein.
        As described herein, differentiated somatic cells which
25 have been contacted with at least one reprogramming agent
   are assessed to distinguish cells which have been
   reprogrammed to multipotency or pluripotency from cells
   which have not.   This may be done by distinguishing cells
   which demonstrate one or more pluripotency characteristics
30 or display one or more markers of pluripotency from cells
   which do not.

                                -60
        The term "pluripotency characteristics", as used
   herein, refers to many characteristics associated with
   pluripotency, including, for example, the ability to
   differentiate into all types of cells and an expression
 5 pattern distinct for a pluripotent cell, including
   expression of pluripotency genes, expression of other ES
   cell markers, and on a global level, a distinct expression
   profile known as "stem cell molecular signature" or
   "stemness."
10      Thus, to assess reprogrammed somatic cells for
   pluripotency characteristics, one may analyze such cells for
   different growth characteristics and ES cell-like
   morphology.   Cells may be injected subcutaneously into
   immunocompromised SCID mice to induce teratomas (a standard
15 assay for ES cells).   ES-like cells can be differentiated
   into embryoid bodies (another ES specific feature).
   Moreover, ES-like cells can be differentiated in vitro by
   adding certain growth factors known to drive differentiation
   into specific cell types.   Self-renewing capacity, marked by
20 induction of telomerase activity, is another plutipotency
   characteristic that can be monitored.   One may carry out
   functional assays of the reprogrammed somatic cells by
   introducing them into blastocysts and determine whether the
   cells are capable of giving rise to all cell types.   See
25 Hogan et al.,  2003.  If the reprogrammed cells are capable
   of forming a few cell types of the body, they are
   multipotent; if the reprogrammed cells are capable of
   forming all cell types of the body including germ cells,
   they are pluripotent.
30      One may also examine the expression of an individual
   pluripotency gene in the reprogrammed somatic cells to

                                   -61
   assess their pluripotency characteristics.        Additionally,
   one may assess the expression of other ES cell markers.
   Stage-specific embryonic 1 5 antigens-1, -3, and -4 (SSEA-1,
   SSEA-3, SSEA-4) are glycoproteins specifically expressed in
 5 early embryonic development and are markers for ES cells
    (Solter and Knowles, 1978, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
   75:5565-5569; Kannagi et al.,     1983, EMBO J 2:2355-2361).
   Elevated expression of the enzyme Alkaline Phosphatase (AP)
   is another marker associated with undifferentiated embryonic
10 stem cells   (Wobus et al.,  1 984, Exp. Cell 152:212-219;
   Pease et al.,   1990, Dev. Biol. 141:322-352).      Other stem
   /progenitor cells markers include the intermediate
   neurofilament nestin (Lendahl et al.,       1990, Cell 60:585-595;
   Dah-Istrand et al.,   1992,' J. Cell Sci. 103:589-597),     the
15 membrane glycoprotein prominin/AC133       (Weigmann et al.,  1997,
   Proc. Natl. Acad. USA 94:12425-12430; Corbeil et al.,        1 998,
   Blood 91:2625-22626),   the transcription factor Tcf-4
    (Korinek et al, 1998, Nat. Genet. 19: 379-383; Lee et al.,
   1999, J. Biol. Chem. 274.1 566-1 572),       and the transcription
20 factor Cdxl   (Duprey et al.,  1 988, Genes Dev. 2:1647-1654;
   Subramania'n et al.,   1998, Differentiation 64:11-1 8).
   Additional ES cell markers are described in Ginis, I., et
   al., Dev. Biol.,   269: 369-380, 2004.      For example, REX-1,
   TERT, UTF-1, TRF-1, TRF-2, connexin43, connexin45, FGFR-4,
25 ABCG-2, and Glut-I are of use.
         One may additionally conduct expression profiling
   analyses of the reprogrammed somatic cells to assess their
   pluripotency characteristics.       Pluripotent cells, such as
   embryonic stem cells, and multipotent cells, such as adult
30 stem cells, are known to have a distinct pattern of global
   gene expression profile.     This distinct pattern is termed

                                -62
   "stem cell molecular signature", or "stemness".    See, for
   example, Ramalho-Santos et al.,   Science 298: 597-600  (2002);
   Ivanova et al.,  Science 298: 601-604. One may assess the
   epigenetic state of cellular DNA. One may assess the
 5 resistance of the cells to global DNA demethylation.     One
   may assess the developmental potential of the cells.     In
   some embodiments, cells that are able to form teratomas
   containing cells having characteristics of endoderm,
   mesoderm, and ectoderm when injected into SCID mice and/or
10 possess ability to participate   (following injection into
   murine blastocysts) in formation of chimeras that survive to
   term are considered pluripotent.
   Engineered Somatic Cells and Transgenic Mice Comprising Such
15 Cells
         The present invention further provides engineered
   somatic cells in which DNA methylation can be regulated.
   "DNA methylation" is used herein consistently with it use in
   the art to refer to the modification of eukaryotic DNA by
20 attachment of a methyl group to a cytosine.    As known in the
   art, cytosine methylation of DNA plays important roles in
   epigenetic gene regulation and the maintenance of genomic
   integrity.   Mammalian cells possess several different DNA
   methyltransferases that are responsible for transfer of a
25 methyl group to cytosine present in DNA   (Goll, G, and
   Bestor, T.,  Annu Rev. Biochemistry, 74:  481-514, 2005).    As
   least three genes are involved in establishing and
   maintaining genomic methylation in mammalian cells, i.e.,
   those encoding the de novo methyltransferases DNMT3a and
30 DNMT3b and the maintenance enzyme DNMT1 which methylates
   hemimethylated DNA but also exhibits the ability to

                                -63
   methylate unmethylated DNA.   Mutational analysis in mice has
   demonstrated that these three genes are essential, with
   lethality occurring soon after gastrulation in Dnmtl-null
   embryos and at later time points in the case of embryos
 5 lacking functional Dnmt3a or Dnmt3b genes    (Li, 1992; Okano,
   et al., Cell,  99(3):247-57, 1999).    Aberrant regulation of a
   number of genes has been observed in these embryos.     The
   data are consistent with a requirement for DNA methylation
   for the transcriptional silencing that occurs in many cell
10 types during mammalian development and is likely necessary
   for the proper cell differentiation.
        The invention provides cells in which expression of an
   endogenous DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) gene such as Dnmtl,
   Dnmt3a, or Dnmt3b can be regulated and/or in which
15 expression of an endogenous Dnmt gene is altered relative to
   nonengineered somatic cells.    In certain embodiments the
   somatic cells contain an exogenously introduced gene that
   encodes an RNA that interferes with expression of an
   endogenous DNA methyltransferase    (DNMT) gene such as Dnmtl,
20 Dnmt3a, or Dnmt3b.   In some embodiments the RNA interferes
   with expression of an endogenous DNA methyltransferase gene
   by RNA interference  (RNAi). "RNAi" is used herein
   consistently with its meaning in the art to refer to a
   phenomenon whereby double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) triggers the
25 sequence-specific degradation or translational repression of
   a corresponding mRNA having complementarity to one strand of
   the dsRNA.   It will be appreciated that the complementarity
   between the strand of  the dsRNA and the mRNA need not be
   100% but need only be sufficient to mediate inhibition of
30 gene expression (also referred to as "silencing" or
   "knockdown").   For example, the degree of complementarity is

                                -64
   such that the strand can either (i) guide cleavage of the
   mRNA in a protein complex called the RNA-induced silencing
   complex (RISC); or (ii) cause translational repression of
   the mRNA.  In certain embodiments the double-stranded
 5 portion of the RNA is less than about 30 nucleotides in
   length, e.g., between 17 and 29 nucleotides in length.    In
   mammalian cells, RNAi may be achieved by introducing an
   appropriate double-stranded nucleic acid into the cells or
   expressing a nucleic acid in cells that is then processed
10 intracellularly to yield dsRNA therein.
        For purposes of the present invention an at least
   partly double-stranded RNA that is capable of triggering
   sequence-specific inhibition of gene expression, optionally
   after undergoing intracellular processing, is referred to as
15 an "RNAi agent".   Exemplary nucleic acids capable of
   mediating RNAi are a short hairpin RNA (shRNA), a short
   interfering RNA (siRNA), and a microRNA precursor.   These
   terms are well known and are used herein consistently with
   their meaning in the art.   siRNAs typically comprise two
20 separate nucleic acid strands that are hybridized to each
   other to form a duplex.   They can be synthesized in vitro,
   e.g., using standard nucleic acid synthesis techniques.
   They can comprise a wide variety of modified nucleosides,
   nucleoside analogs and can comprise chemically or
25 biologically modified bases, modified backbones, etc.   Any
   modification recognized in the art as being useful for RNAi
   can be used.  Some modifications result in increased
   stability, cell uptake, potency, etc.   In certain
   embodiments the siRNA comprises a duplex about 19
30 nucleotides in length and one or two 3' overhangs of 1-5
   nucleotides in length, which may be composed of

                                -65
   deoxyribonucleotides.   shRNA comprise a single nucleic acid
   strand that contains two complementary portions separated by
   a predominantly non-selfcomplementary region.    The
   complementary portions hybridize to form a duplex structure
 5 and the non-selfcomplementary region forms a loop connecting
   the 3' end of one strand of the duplex and the 5' end of the
   other strand. shRNAs   undergo intracellular processing to
   generate siRNAs.
        MicroRNAs  (miRNAs) are small, non-coding, single
10 stranded RNAs of about 21-25 nucleotides   (in mammalian
   systems) that inhibit gene expression in a sequence-specific
   manner.  They are generated intracellularly from precursors
   having a characteristic secondary structure comprised of a
   short hairpin (about 70 nucleotides in length) containing a
15 duplex that often includess one or more regions of   imperfect
   complementarity.   Naturally occurring miRNAs are only
   partially complementary to their target mRNA and typically
   act via translational repression.   As used herein the term
   "shRNA" encompasses RNAi agents modelled on endogenous
20 microRNA precursors.   In some embodiments, a sequence
   encoding the stem portion of a stem-loop structure or
   encoding a complete stem-loop can be inserted into a nucleic
   acid comprising at least a portion of an endogenous microRNA
   primary transcript, e.g.,  in place of the sequence that
25 encodes the endogenous microRNA or minimum   (-70 nucleotide)
   microRNA hairpin.
        One of skill in the art will be able to identify an
   appropriate RNAi agent to inhibit expression of a gene.
   Such an RNAi agent is referred to as being "targeted to" the
30 gene and the encoded mRNA.   The RNAi agent may inhibit
   expression sufficiently to reduce the average steady state

                                  -66
   level of the RNA transcribed from the gene     (e.g., mRNA) or
   its encoded protein by, e.g.,    by at least 50%,  60%,  70%,
   80%, 90%,  95%, or more).   The RNAi agent may contain a
   sequence between 17-29 nucleotides long, e.g.,     19-23
 5 nucleotides long that is 100% complementary to the mRNA or
   contains up to 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 nucleotides, or up to about
   10-30% nucleotides, that do not participate in Watson-Crick
   base pairs when aligned with the mRNA to achieve the maximum
   number of complementary base pairs.     The RNAi agent may
10 contain a duplex between 17-29 nucleotides long in which all
   nucleotides participate in Watson-Crick base pairs or in
   which up to about 10-30% of the nucleotides do not
   participate in a Watson-Crick base pair.     One of skill in
   the art will be aware of which sequence characteristics are
15 often associated with superior siRNA functionality and
   algorithms and rules by which such siRNAs can be designed
    (see, e.g., Jagla, B.,  et al, RNA, 11(6):864-72, 2005).     The
   methods of the invention can employ siRNAs having such
   characteristics, although the range of useful sequences is
20 not limited to those that satisfy these rules. In some
   embodiments the sequence of either or both strands of the
   RNAi agent is/are chosen to avoid silencing non-target
   genes, e.g.,  the strand(s) may have less than 70%,     80%, or
   90% complementarity to any mRNA other than the target mRNA.
25 In some embodiments multiple different sequences are used.
   The tables below list the Gene IDs of the human and mouse
   genes encoding DNMT1, 3a, and 3b and antisense sequences of
   exemplary siRNAs   for silencing these genes.     Similar
   information is included also for HPRT.     One of skill in the
30 art can readily find the Gene ID, accession numbers, and
   sequence information for any gene of interest in publicly

                                -67
   available databases.   One of skill in the art can readily
   design siRNAs and shRNAs to silence these genes or others.
   It will be appreciated that the sequences may be varied
   and/or extended by incorporating additional nucleotides at
 5 either or both ends.   Furthermore, if multiple isoforms
   exist, one can design siRNAs or shRNAs targeted against a
   region present in all of the isoforms expressed in a given
   cell type or organism of interest.
10 Table A: siRNA sequences targeting Human genes
    Gene     Gene ID                 siRNA sequences
   Dnmtl   1786         GGAAGAAGAGUUACUAUAA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        GAGCGGAGGUGUCCCAAUA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __)
                        GGACGACCCUGACCUCAAA  (SEQ. ID. NO: __)
                        GAACGGUGCUCAUGCUUAC  (SEQ. ID. NO: __)
                        UUUCUCCCUCAGACACUC (SEQ ID NO:  __
   Dnmt3a  1788         GCACAAGGGUACCUACGGG  (SEQ. ID. NO: __)
                        CAAGAGAGCGGCUGGUGUA  (SEQ. ID. NO: __
                        GCACUGAAAUGGAAAGGGU (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        GAACUGCUUUCUGGAGUGU (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
   Dnnt3b  1789         GAAAGUACGUCGCUUCUGA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        ACAAAUGGCUUCAGAUGUU (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        GCUCUUACCUUACCAUCGA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        UUUACCACCUGCUGAAUUA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
   Hprt    3251         CCAGUUUCACUAAUGACACAA (SEQ ID NO:  __

                                -68
   Table B: siRNA Targeting Mouse genes
    Gene      Gene ID                siRNA sequences
   Dnmtl    13433       GGAAAGAGAUGGCUUAACA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __)
                        GCUGGGAGAUGGCGUCAUA  (SEQ. ID. NO: _)
                        GAUAAGAAACGCAGAGUUG  (SEQ. ID. NO:  _
                        GGUAGAGAGUUACGACGAA (SEQ. ID. NO: _)
   Dnmt3a   13435       CGCGAUUUCUUGAGUCUAA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __)
                        CGAAUUGUGUCUUGGUGGA (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        AAACAUCGAGGACAUUUGU  (SEQ. ID. NO: __
                        CAAGGGACUUUAUGAGGGU (SEQ. ID. NO:
   Dnmt3b   13436       GCAAUGAUCUCUCUAACGU (SEQ. ID. NO: __)
                        GGAAUGCGCUGGGUACAGU (SEQ. ID. NO: __)
                        UAAUCUGGCUACCUUCAAU (SEQ. ID. NO:  __
                        GCAAAGGUUUAUAUGAGGG  (SEQ. ID. NO: __
   Hprt     15452       CCAGUUUCACUAAUGACACAA  (SEQ ID NO:
         To express an RNAi agent in somatic cells, a nucleic
   acid construct comprising a sequence that encodes the RNAi
 S agent, operably linked to suitable expression control
   elements, e.g., a promoter, can be introduced into the cells
   as known in the art.   For purposes of the present invention
   a nucleic acid construct that comprises a sequence that
   encodes an RNA or polypeptide of interest, the sequence
10 being operably linked to expression control elements such as
   a promoter that direct transcription in a cell of interest,
   is referred to as an "expression cassette".   The promoter
   can be an RNA polymerase I, II, or III promoter functional
   in mammalian cells.   In certain embodiments the promoter is
15 one that is functional when introduced into somatic cells.
   In certain embodiments expression of the RNAi agent is
   conditional. In some embodiments expression is regulated by

                                 -69
   placing the sequence that encodes the RNAi agent under
   control of a regulatable   (e.g., inducible or repressible)
   promoter.
        In some embodiments regulation of expression of a DNA
 5 methyltransferase is dependent on a site-specific
   recombinase.  Site-specific recombinases and methods of use
   thereof for achieving controlled and reversible expression
   of genes are known in the art.    Such recombinases are
   proteins that recognize specific nucleic acid sequences and
10 mediate insertion into or excision of sequences located
   between these sites.    Recombinase systems include the Cre
   Lox and Flp-Frt systems, among others.    In some embodiments
   at least a portion of the coding sequence for the RNAi agent
   is positioned between sites for the recombinase.    Expression
15 of the recombinase  (e.g.,  Cre) in the cell or its exogenous
   introduction into a cell causes excision of the portion of
   the coding sequence located between the sites, permanently
   turning off expression of the gene.    In some embodiments
   expression of a gene in a cell is prevented due to presence
20 of a "stopper" sequence located between a promoter element
   and the transcription start site or between different
   portions of a promoter element (e.g., between a TATA box and
   a second portion of a promoter element).    The stopper
   sequence is flanked by sites for a recombinase, which sites
25 are also located between the promoter and the transcription
   start site or between different portions of a promoter
   element.  Expression or introduction of the recombinase into
   the cell causes excision of the stopper sequence, thereby
   bringing the promoter into operable association with the
30 transcription start site or reconstituting a functional
   promoter, thereby allowing transcription to proceed.    In

                                 -70
   some embodiments, the cells comprise an expression cassette
   in which expression of the recombinase is under control of
   inducible expression control elements such as an inducible
   promoter.   Expression of the recombinase is induced, e.g.,
 5 by administering an appropriate inducing agent such as a
   small molecule  (e.g., tetracycline or an analog thereof, a
   hormone such as estrogen or a glucocorticoid, a metal, etc.)
   to cells or to an organism or by introducing an expression
   vector that encodes the recombinase into the cell or
10 organism.   See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,995,011 and Ventura,
   et al.  (reference 13 of reference set 2).  In one embodiment
   the promoter is a U6 promoter, and a Lox-Stop-Lox sequence
   is inserted between the proximal sequence element (PSE) and
   the TATA box or between the TATA box and the transcription
15 start site.   In some embodiments the TATA box in a promoter
   (e.g., the U6 promoter) is replaced by a bifunctional lox
   site (TATAlox) that retains the ability to undergo Cre
   mediated recombination and contains a functional TATA box is
   used, so that after recombination the spacing between the
20 PSE, TATA, and transcriptional start site is not altered
   (Ventura, et. Al, 2004).
        In some embodiments the invention provides a cell that
   comprises a first copy of a Dnmt gene that is functional but
   can be rendered nonfunctional by expressing in or
25 introducing a first recombinase into the cell and a second
   copy of the Dnmt gene that is nonfunctional but can be
   rendered functional by expressing in or introducing a second
   recombinase into the cell.   The first copy of the gene or an
   essential portion thereof may, for example, be flanked by
30 sites for the first recombinase so that when the first
   recombinase is present the gene or a portion thereof is

                                -71
   excised and the gene is rendered nonfunctional.   The second
   copy of the gene may, for example, comprise a stopper
   sequence located between sites for the second recombinase.
   The stopper sequence prevents synthesis of a functional DNMT
 5 protein.  For example, the stopper may be present between
   the promoter and the transcriptional start site and prevent
   transcription or it may result in an insertion into the DNMT
   protein that renders the protein non-functional.   When the
   second recombinase is present the stopper sequence is
10 excised, and a functional DNMT is produced.   In some
   embodiments, a gene is considered "nonfunctional" if it is
   not detectably transcribed or, if transcribed, the level of
   transcription is reduced by at least 100-fold.   In some
   embodiments, a "nonfunctional" gene encodes a DNMT protein
15 that lacks at least 90% of its catalytic domain and/or at
   least 90% of its localization domain.   One of skill in the
   art will be able to generate non-functional Dnmtl, 3a,
   and/or 3b genes.   Genes can be tested to determine whether
   they encode a functional protein using standard in vitro
20 assays or by determining whether the gene is able to rescue
   the lethality of a Dnmtl, 3a, or 3b knockout.   In some
   embodiments, a "nonfunctional gene" encodes a protein whose
   DNA methylating activity in vitro against a suitable
   substrate  (e.g., hemimethylated DNA in the case of DNMT1)
25 using a standard assay known in the art is reduced by at
   least 95%, 98%, 99% or more. In some embodiments a non
   functional gene is one that, when present as the sole source
   of DNMT protein in a somatic cell of interest such as a
   primary mammalian fibroblast, does not encode a protein
30 capable of allowing the cell to survive for a period of 10
   days in standard culture conditions.   DNA methylation can be

                                 -72
   regulated in the cell as follows.    First, DNA methylation is
   inhibited by introduction or expression of the first
   recombinase, thereby eliminating expression of functional
   DNMT1.  The cells are maintained in culture.    In the absence
 5 of a functional DNMT1, DNA demethylation occurs over time
   (either spontaneously or as a result of active
   demethylation) and hemimethylated DNA is not remethylated
   after cell division.   When it is desired to restore DNA
   methylation, the second recombinase is introduced or
10 expressed in cells, causing removal of the stopper sequence
   and allowing production of functional DNMT1.    In some
   embodiments this approach is applied to render expression of
   DNMT1, 3a, 3b, or any combination thereof conditional.
        In some embodiments the recombinase is expressed
15 transiently, e.g.,  it becomes undetectable after about 1-2
   days, 2-7 days, 1-2 weeks, etc.    Transient expression can be
   achieved by transient transfection or by expression from a
   regulatable promoter.
        In some embodiments the recombinase is introduced from
20 external sources.   Optionally the recombinase in these
   embodiments comprises an amino acid sequence (also referred
   to as a "protein transduction domain") that enhances
   cellular uptake of polypeptides.    Such uptake-enhancing
   amino acid sequences are found, e.g.,   in HIV-1 TAT protein,
25 the herpes simplex virus 1   (HSV-1) DNA-binding protein VP22,
   the Drosophila Antennapedia (Antp) homeotic transcription
   factor, and others.   Synthetic peptides, e.g.,  having a high
   basic amino acid content (Lys and Arg) are also of use.    See
   U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20060148104 for additional useful
30 sequences.  In some embodiments expression of the
   recombinase is achieved by infecting cells with a vector,

                                -73
   e.g.,  a virus vector (e.g., a lentivirus, adenovirus, or
   adeno-associated virus vector) containing an expression
   cassette containing the sequence encoding the recombinase
   operably linked to a promoter.   The vector may be one that
 5 results in transient expression of the recombinase, e.g.,
   that does not stably integrate into the cell's genome or
   result in a stably inherited episome.In certain embodiments
   of the invention the engineered somatic cells contain a
   functional p53 pathway (see Harris, S.,  and Levine, A,
10 Oncogene, 24:  2899-2908, 2005 for description of p53
   pathways).   Such cells contain a functional p53 gene and are
   able to undergo p53-dependent cell cycle arrest and/or cell
   death in response to various stresses such as DNA damage,
   hypoxia, and/or exposure to various chemotherapeutic agents
15  (e.g., microtubule inhibitors) known in the art to induce
   p53-dependent apoptosis in somatic cells.   In some
   embodiments the p53-dependent pathway leads to apoptosis.
   In some embodiments the p53-dependent pathway leads to cell
   senescence.   One of skill in the art will be able to
20 determine whether cells have a functional p53 pathway, e.g.,
   by exposing cells to conditions known to induce p53
   dependent cell cycle arrest or death and determining whether
   the cells respond in a manner consistent with existence of a
   functional p53-dependent pathway.   In general, noncancerous
25 somatic cells obtained from a mammalian subject are expected
   to possess functional p53 pathways.
         In certain embodiments of the invention the somatic
   cells are sensitive to DNA demethylation.   As used herein, a
   cell is "sensitive to" DNA demethylation if it displays
30 decreased ability to survive or proliferate under conditions
   of reduced DNA methylation.    DNA methylation is required

                               -74
   for survival of a variety of different somatic cell types,
   particularly those that are proliferating.   For example,
   when the Dnmtl gene is rendered nonfunctional in
   proliferating fibroblasts by Cre-mediated recombination, the
 5 cells exhibit progressive DNA demethylation between 3-5 days
   following introduction of a construct from which Cre is
   expressed, and die between 5 and 6 days following
   introduction of the construct  (Jackson-Grusby, et al.).  DNA
   demethylation is a property shared by proliferating somatic
10 cells of diverse types, consistent with the fact that Dnmtl,
   3a, and 3b are essential genes.   In contrast, ES cells are
   able to survive and proliferate in the absence of functional
   DNMTl unless induced to differentiate.
        In certain embodiments a population of cells of the
15 present invention is characterized in that on average the
   number of methylated cytosines in the genomic DNA of the
   cells is reduced by at least 5%5 relative to the level that
   would exist under "standard conditions".   In some
   embodiments the population of cells is subjected to
20 conditions such that the number of methylated cytosines in
   genomic DNA is reduced on average by between 5% and 10%,
   between 10% and 25%, between 25% and 50%,  between 50% and
   75%, between 75% and 95%, or by between 95% and 100%,
   relative to the level that exists under standard conditions.
25 In certain embodiments of the invention the average amount
   of methylation (i.e., the average number of methylated
   cytosines) of at least 10, 20,  50, or 100 genes and/or
   genetic elements such as IAP, L1,  LINE, or SINE elements or
   endogenous retroviral elements is reduced in the population
30 of cells relative to an otherwise identical population of
   cells that has not been subjected to demethylating

                                -75
   conditions.   In certain embodiments the average expression
   level of Dnmt mRNA, e.g., Dnmt1 mRNA, in the population of
   cells is less than 50% of its normal level.   In some
   embodiments the average expression level of DNMT protein,
 5 e.g.,  DNMT1 protein, in the population of cells is less than
   50% of its normal level.
         A cell is said to be "resistant to DNA demethylation"
   if it is able to survive and to proliferate when DNA
   methylation is reduced to a level that would result in cell
10 cycle arrest or cell death in a proliferating somatic cell
   such as a primary fibroblast.    In certain embodiments of
   the invention a "proliferating cell" is one that would be
   expected to divide within 96 hours if maintained under
   appropriate culture conditions.   In certain embodiments the
15 proliferating cell would be expected to divide within 72
   hours if maintained under appropriate culture conditions.
   In some embodiments the cell would be expected to divide
   within 48 hours, or within 24 hours.   In other words, if the
   cell  (and its progeny) is/are maintained in culture under
20 appropriate conditions the total number of cells would
   double within 24, 48, 72, or 96 hours.   "Appropriate culture
   conditions" refers to standard culture conditions known in
   the art as being suitable for a somatic cell type of
   interest to survive and proliferate.    See, e.g., Masters,
25 J. (ed.) Animal Cell Culture: A Practical Approach, 3rd ed.,
   Oxford University Press, 2000; Freshey, I.,  et al.,  Culture
   of Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic Technique, 5th ed.,
   Wiley-Liss, 2005.
         Reduced DNA methylation can be achieved by (a)
30 inhibiting expression or activity of an endogenous DNA
   methyltransferase or otherwise inhibiting DNA methylation by

                                -76
   an endogenous DNA methyltransferase, e.g.,  by contacting a
   cell with an agent that inhibits expression or activity of
   the endogenous DNA methyltransferase or otherwise inhibits
   DNA methylation;  (b) expressing an agent that inhibits
 5 expression or activity of an endogenous DNA
   methyltransferase or otherwise inhibits DNA methylation by
   the DNMT in the cell;  (c) inhibiting expression or activity
   of an endogenous protein other than a DNA methyltransferase,
   which protein is needed for any step of a biochemical
10 pathway that provides a substrate for the transfer of a
   methyl group to cytosine by a DNA methyltransferase;   (d)
   expressing in the cell an agent that inhibits expression or
   activity of an endogenous protein other than a DNA
   methyltransferase, which protein is needed for any step of a
15 biochemical pathway that provides a substrate for the
   transfer of a methyl group to cytosine by a DNA
   methyltransferase; and/or (e) culturing the cell under
   conditions in which it is deprived of nutrients needed for
   synthesis of a substrate for the transfer of a methyl group
20 to cytosine by a DNA methyltranferase (but in the presence
   of sufficient nutrients to otherwise support cell
   viability).   Expressing an agent in the cell as described in
    (b) or (d) can be achieved by contacting the cell with a
   agent that induces or derepresses such expression or
25 otherwise causes such expression (e.g., by a recombinase
   mediated mechanism).   A cell that has been treated in any of
   the afore-mentioned ways  (or any other way known in the art)
   to reduce DNA demethylation is said to have been subjected
   to "DNA demethylating conditions".   For example, a cell that
30 has been contacted with an agent that induces expression of
   an RNAi agent that inhibits DNMT expression or has been

                               -77
   contacted with a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor or a
   recombinase that inactivates a DNMT gene has been subjected
   to DNA demethylating conditions.
        The DNA methyltransferase can be DNMT, 3a, and/or 3b.
 5 In some embodiments expression and/or activity of only DNMT1
   is inhibited.  In other embodiments expression and/or
   activity of DNMT1 and either DNMT3a or 3b is inhibited.    In
   some embodiments expression and/or activity of DNMT1, 3a,
   and 3b are inhibited.  In some embodiments the endogenous
10 protein other than a DNMT is an endogenous transporter or
   enzyme needed for any step of a biochemical pathway that
   provides a substrate for the transfer of a methyl group to
   cytosine by a DNA methyltransferase in the cell.   In some
   embodiments a combination of conditions is used, e.g., at
15 least one DNMT is inhibited and cells are cultured in
   conditions lacking at least some of the nutrients needed for
   DNA methylation.  In another embodiment cells are contacted
   with a small molecule that inhibits DNA methylation (such as
   5'aza-cytidine) and an RNAi agent that inhibits expression
20 of DNMT1, 3a, or 3b is expressed in the cells.   In certain
   embodiments a cell that is sensitive to DNA demethylation
   undergoes cell cycle arrest or death when DNA methylation is
   reduced and/or when DNA methyltransferase activity is
   inhibited, leading to DNA demethylation.
25      A variety of DNA methylation inhibitors are known in
   the art and are of use in the invention.  See, e.g.,  Lyko,
   F. and Brown, R., JNCI Journal of the National Cancer
   Institute, 97(20):1498-1506, 2005.  Inhibitors of DNA
   methylation include nucleoside DNA methyltransferase
30 inhibitors such as 5-azacytidine, 5-azadeoxycytidine, and
   zebularine, non-nucleoside inhibitors such as the polyphenol

                                 -78
    (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) and the small molecule
   RG108  (2-(1,3-dioxo-1,3-dihydro-2H-isoindol-2-yl)-3-(lH
   indol-3-yl)propanoic acid),  compounds described in
   W02005085196 and phthalamides, succinimides and related
 5 compounds as described in W02007007054.    Three additional
   classes of compounds are:  (1) 4-Aminobenzoic acid
   derivatives, such as the antiarrhythmic drug procainamide
   and the local anesthetic procaine;   (2) the psammaplins,
   which also inhibits histone deacetylase (Pina, I.C.,    J Org
10 Chem.,  68(10):3866-73, 2003); and (3) oligonucleotides,
   including siRNAs, shRNAs, and specific antisense
   oligonucleotides, such as MG98.   DNA methylation inhibitors
   may act by a variety of different mechanisms.    The
   nucleoside inhibitors are metabolized by cellular pathways
15 before being incorporated into DNA. After incorporation,
   they function as suicide substrates for DNMT enzymes. The
   nonnucleoside inhibitors procaine,  epigallocatechin-3
   gallate (EGCG), and RG108 have been proposed to inhibit DNA
   methyltransferases by masking DNMT target sequences    (i.e.,
20 procaine) or by blocking the active site of the enzyme
   (i.e., EGCG and RG108).   In some embodiments of the
   invention combinations of DNA methylation inhibitors are
   used.   In some embodiments the concentrations are selected
   to minimize toxic effects on cells.    In some embodiments
25 agents that incorporate into DNA (or whose metabolic
   products incorporate into DNA) are not employed.     In certain
   embodiments of the invention DNA methylation in a cell is
   considered "reduced", and the DNA of the cell is considered
   at least in part "demethylated", if the number of methylated
30 cytosines in the cell's genomic DNA is reduced by at least
   5% relative to the level that would exist under "standard

                                -79
   conditions", by which are meant conditions within the body
   of a mammalian subject or appropriate cell culture
   conditions known and routinely used in the art for cells of
   a particular type of interest.   In some embodiments the
 5 number of methylated cytosines in genomic DNA is reduced by
   between 5% and 10%, between 10%  and 25%, between 25%  and
   50%, between 50% and 75%, between 75% and 95%, or by between
   95% and 100%, relative to the level that exists under
   standard conditions, e.g.,  prior to administration or
10 induction of expression of an inhibitor of a DNA
   methyltransferase.   In certain embodiments of the invention
   DNA methylation in a cell is considered "reduced", and the
   DNA of the cell is considered at least in part
   "demethylated", if the number of methylated CpG sequences in
15 the cell's genomic DNA is reduced by at least 5% relative to
   the level that would exist under "standard conditions", by
   which are meant conditions within the body of a mammalian
   subject or appropriate cell culture conditions known and
   routinely used in the art for cells of a particular type of
20 interest.   In some embodiments the number of methylated CpG
   sequences in genomic DNA is reduced by between 5% and 10%,
   between 10%  and 25%, between 25% and 50%, between 50% and
   75%, between 75% and 95%,  or by between 95% and 100%,
   relative to the level that exists under standard conditions,
25 e.g., prior to administration or induction of expression of
   an inhibitor of a DNA methyltransferase.   In certain
   embodiments the cell is subjected to global DNA
   demethylation.   "Global DNA demethylation" refers to DNA
   demethylation that occurs at many locations in the genome as
30 opposed to at one or a few specific loci.   In certain
   embodiments of the invention global DNA demethylation

                                 -80
   reduces the methylation (i.e., the number of methylated
   cytosines) of at least 10, 20, 50, or 100 genes and/or
   genetic elements such as IAP, L1, LINE, or SINE elements or
   endogenous retroviral elements.    One of skill in the art
 5 will readily be able to determine qualitatively whether the
   cell's DNA is demethylated and/or to determine the extent of
   demethylation.   For example, one of skill in the art could
   make use of the fact that certain restriction enzymes and/or
   DNA cleaving agents recognize only methylated DNA.    In
10 certain embodiments bisulfite sequencing is employed.    In
   one embodiment bisulfite treatment followed by PCR
   amplification of DNA repetitive elements is employed (Yang,
   A.S., et al.,  Nucl. Acids Res.,  32(3); e38, 2004).  In
   certain embodiments HPLC or nearest neighbor analysis is
15 used to quantify the amount of    5-methylcytosine.
        In some embodiments cell cycle arrest or death occurs
   within 30 days or less following subjecting the cells to
   demethylating conditions, e.g., within 15 days or less,
   within 10 days, within 5 days, etc.     In some embodiments
20 cell cycle arrest or death occurs within 5-6 days following
   subjecting the cells to demethylating conditions.    In some
   embodiments, cell cycle arrest or death occurs within 10
   times the time required for the cell to complete 10 cell
   cycles under non-demethylating conditions, e.g., between 5
25 10 cell cycle times or between 2-5 cell cycle times
   following subjecting the cells to demethylating conditions.
   In some embodiments cell cycle arrest or death occurs within
   30 days or less following inducing expression of an RNAi
   agent targeted to a Dnmt gene in the cells, e.g., within 15
30 days or less, within 10 days, within 5 days, etc.     In some
   embodiments cell cycle arrest or death occurs within 5-6

                                  -81
   days following inducing expression of an RNAi agent targeted
   to a Dnmt gene in the cells.     In some embodiments, cell
   cycle arrest or death occurs within 10 times the time
   required for the cell to complete 10 cell cycles under
 5 conditions in which the Dnmt gene is expressed normall,
   e.g.,  between 5-10 cell cycle times or between 2-5 cell
   cycle times following inducing the expression of an RNAi
   agent targeted to a Dnmt gene in the cells.      In some
   embodiments cell cycle arrest or death occurs after 30 days
10 or less during which the average expression level of Dnmt
   mRNA, e.g., Dnmtl mRNA, is less than 50% of its normal
   level, e.g.,  after 15 days or less, after 10 days or less,
   or after 5 days or less.     In some embodiments cell cycle
   arrest or death occurs after 30 days or less during which
15 the average expression level of DNMT protein, e.g.,      DNMT1
   protein, is less than 50% of its normal level, e.g., within
   15 days or less, after 10 days, after 5 days, etc. In some
   embodiments cell cycle arrest or death occurs after 30 days
   or less during which the average methyltransferase activity
20 level of DNMT protein, e.g., DNMT1 protein,,     is less than
   50% of its normal level, e.g., after 15 days or less, after
   10 days or less, or after 5 days or less.
         It will be appreciated that the methods of the
   invention are often practiced using populations of somatic
25 cells.   A population of somatic cells is said to be
   sensitive to DNA demethylation if at least 90% of the cells
   are sensitive to DNA demethylation.      In some embodiments at
   least 95%,  96%, 97%, 98%,  99%,   99.5%, 99.8%, 99.9, 99.95% or
   more of the cells are sensitive to DNA demethylation.       Thus
30 when the cells are subjected to demethylating conditions, at
   least at least 95%,  96%,  97%, 98%,   99%, 99.5%, 99.8%, 99.9%,

                                -82
   99.95% or more of the cells undergo cell cycle arrest or die
   within a selected time period, e.g., within 30 days, within
   15 days, within 10 days, etc.    The population of cells may
   be of a single type and may be substantially free of other
 5 cell types.  "Substantially free" as used herein refers to
   at least about 80% pure, preferably 85%, 90%, 95%,    99% or
   more pure population of the desired cells in the whole cell
   population.  In some embodiments the cells are cultured in
   medium that supports growth of only a desired cell type for
10 a period of time, thereby resulting in a population of cells
   substantially free of other cell types.
        In certain embodiments of the invention, reprogrammed
   somatic cells are identified by a method that comprises
   selecting for cells that are resistant to DNA demethylation.
15 The invention provides a method of identifying a somatic
   cell that has been at least in part reprogrammed to an ES
   like state, the method comprising steps of:    (a) providing
   somatic cells, at least some of which have been at least in
   part reprogrammed to an ES-like state; and    (b) selecting a
20 cell that is resistant to DNA demethylation, thereby
   identifying a cell that has an increased likelihood of
   having been reprogrammed, e.g.,   reprogrammed to an ES-like
   state.  In some embodiments at least some of the cells
   identified using the method have been reprogrammed to an ES
25 like state.  In some embodiments at least some of the cells
   have been at least in part reprogrammed to an ES-like state,
   such that they are more susceptible to reprogramming to a
   pluripotent state when subjected to one or more additional
   treatments than cells that are not resistant to DNA
30 demethylation.

                                -83
         (0002]         The method makes use of the fact that
   many or most somatic cell types are sensitive to DNA
   demethylation, i.e.,  they cannot survive or proliferate for
   prolonged periods of time without the ability to maintain
 5 sufficient methylation of their genomic DNA.   In contrast,
   ES cells are resistant to DNA demethylation and can survive
   in the absence of endogenous DNA methyltransferase.    In some
   embodiments a population of somatic cells is subjected to
   conditions under which at least 701,  at least 80%,  or at
10 least 90% of unreprogrammed somatic cells of that cell type
   would be expected to cease proliferating or to die within 30
   days after being subjected to the conditions. In some
   embodiments at least 90% of unreprogrammed somatic cells of
   that type would be expected to cease proliferating or die
15 within 20 days after being subjected to the conditions.     In
   some embodiments a population of somatic cells is subjected
   to conditions under which at least 95%  of unreprogrammed
   somatic cells of that cell type would be expected to cease
   proliferating or to die within 15 days after being subjected
20 to the conditions.   In another embodiment a population of
   somatic cells is subjected to conditions under which at
   least 99% of unreprogrammed somatic cells of that cell type
   would be expected to cease proliferating or to die within 10
   days after being subjected to the conditions.   In some
25 embodiments the cells are human cells.   In some embodiments
   the somatic cells are proliferating cells.   In some
   embodiments the somatic cells are fibroblasts.   In certain
   embodiments the somatic cells express an exogenously
   introduced reprogramming factor.   In certain embodiments the
30 cells have been contacted with a reprogramming agent.    In
   some embodiments the cells are subjected to conditions under

                                -84
   which DNA is demethylated.   In certain embodiments the
   somatic cells reversibly express an RNAi agent targeted to
   an endogenous DNA methyltransferase.   In certain
   embodiments, the method further comprises after the cell is
 5 selected, inhibiting (i.e.,  reducing or eliminating) the
   expression of the RNAi agent in the selected somatic cell,
   thereby allowing the genomic DNA of the selected somatic
   cell to become methylated.   Thus DNA methylation can occur
   as the cell is maintained in culture and/or as its progeny
10 are induced to differentiate.
        The invention further provides a method of identifying
   a somatic cell that has been at least in part reprogrammed
   to a pluripotent state, the method comprising providing
   somatic cells that are sensitive to DNA demethylation;
15 contacting the cells with one or more factors capable of
   reprogramming somatic cells;  treating the cells so as to
   reduce methylation of genomic DNA; maintaining the cells in
   culture for a time period; and identifying a cell that is
   alive after said time period, thereby identifying a cell
20 that has an increased likelihood of having been at least in
   part reprogrammed to a pluripotent state. In some
   embodiments at least some of the cells identified using the
   method have been reprogrammed to an ES-like state.   In some
   embodiments at least some of the cells have been at least in
25 part reprogrammed to an ES-like state, such that they are
   more susceptible to reprogramming to a pluripotent state
   when subjected to one or more additional treatments than
   cells that are not resistant to DNA demethylation.   In
   certain embodiments of the invention the cells are then
30 subjected to such additional treatment(s).  One of skill in
   the art will be able to test a population of somatic cells

                               -85
   to determine the conditions and the time period needed such
   that a desired fraction of the cells in a population will
   not survive when subjected to demethylating conditions.
        For example, one may culture the cells after inducing
 5 expression of an RNAi agent targeted to the Dnmtl gene and
   count the number of viable cells at different time points to
   determine the length of time ("X" hours or days) needed for
   at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 99% of
   the cells to be killed as a consequence of reduced DNA
10 methylation.  When practicing the inventive methods, cells
   that have been treated with an agent capable of
   reprogramming cells and are viable after X hours or days are
   potentially reprogrammed. It will be appreciated that not
   all viable cells may be reprogrammed. For example, some of
15 the cells may not express the RNAi agent at levels
   sufficient to kill unreprogrammed cells.  The cells may be
   subjected to one or more additional selections or tests to
   determine whether they are reprogrammed or to select from
   the potentially reprogrammed cells those that are
20 reprogrammed.  For example, cells that are viable after time
   X may be subjected to a screen or selection for cells that
   have two transcriptionally active X chromosomes  (in the case
   of cells derived from a female), and/or may be screened or
   selected for cells that express one or more markers
25 characteristic of ES cells, etc.
        The invention further provides a method of identifying
   a differentiated somatic cell that has been reprogrammed to
   a pluripotent state, the method comprising providing a
   population of cells, at least some of which have been
30 reprogrammed to a pluripotent state, wherein said cell
   comprises a polynucleotide encoding a selectable marker

                                -86
   operably linked to expression control elements that regulate
   expression of an endogenous pluripotency gene in such a
   manner that expression of the selectable marker
   substantially matches expression of the endogenous
 5 pluripotency gene, and identifying a cell that expresses the
   selectable marker, thereby identifying a somatic cell that
   has an increased likelihood of having been reprogrammed to a
   pluripotent state (relative to cells that do not express the
   selectable marker).   In some embodiments, the endogenous
10 pluripotency gene is Oct-4 or Nanog.   In some embodiments
   the method further comprises selecting a cell or colony of
   cells having a morphology characteristic of an ES cell or ES
   cell colony.  Morphological criteria known in the art can be
   used to select such cells or colonies.
15      In a further embodiment of the invention, reprogrammed
   somatic cells are identified by selecting for cells that
   contain two transcriptionally active X chromosomes.   In one
   embodiment the invention provides a method of identifying a
   somatic cell that has an increased likelihood of having been
20 reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
   providing somatic cells that contain two X chromosomes, one
   of which is inactive;  subjecting the cells to one or more
   treatments that reprogram somatic cells; and identifying a
   cell in which the inactive X chromosome has become active,
25 thereby identifying a cell that has an increased likelihood
   of having been reprogrammed, e.g.,  reprogrammed to an ES
   like state.  In some embodiments at least some of the cells
   identified using the method have been reprogrammed to an ES
   like state.  In some embodiments at least some of the cells
30 have been at least in part reprogrammed to an ES-like state,
   such that they are more susceptible to reprogramming to a

                                -87
   pluripotent state when subjected to one or more additional
   treatments than cells that do not have two transcriptionally
   active X chromosomes.   In certain embodiments of the
   invention the cells are then subjected to such additional
 5 treatment(s).
        In certain embodiments the somatic cells contain two X
   chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein one of the X
   chromosomes contains a functional allele of a selectable
   marker gene and the other X chromosome does not contain a
10 functional allele of said selectable marker gene.    In
   certain embodiments the selectable marker gene is an
   endogenous gene normally present on the X chromosome.    In
   certain embodiments the somatic cells contain two X
   chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein both-of the X
15 chromosomes contain a functional allele of a selectable
   marker gene.
        In certain embodiments the somatic cells contain two X
   chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein both of the X
   chromosomes contain a  functional allele of a selectable
20 marker gene that is useful for both positive and negative
   selection, and the method comprises:   (a) selecting cells
   that do not express the selectable marker gene, thereby
   obtaining a population of cells in which a first X
   chromosome is transcriptionally inactive;   (b) subjecting the
25 cells to one or more treatments that reprogram the cells;
   (c) functionally inactivating the selectable marker gene on
   said first X chromosome;  and (d) selecting cells that
   express the selectable marker gene, thereby selecting cells
   in which the second X chromosome is transcriptionally
30 active. In certain embodiments the selectable marker gene is

                                -88
   an endogenous gene normally present on the X chromosome,
   e.g.,  the Hprt gene.
         The invention further provides a method of identifying
   a somatic cell having an increased likelihood of having been
 5 reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
   steps of:  (a) providing somatic cells that have an active X
   chromosome that lacks a functional allele of a selectable
   marker and an inactive X chromosome that contains a
   functional allele of said selectable marker;   (b) subjecting
10 the cells to one or more treatments capable of reprogramming
   somatic cells; and (c) selecting cells that express the
   selectable marker gene, thereby selecting cells in which the
   inactive X chromosome has become transcriptionally active.
   Such cells have an increased likelihood of having been
15 reprogrammed to an ES-like state relative to cells in which
   the inactive X chromosome has not become transcriptionally
   active.
         The invention further provides a method of identifying
   a somatic cell that has an increased likelihood of having
20 been reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method
   comprising:  (a) providing somatic cells that contain two X
   chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein one of the X
   chromosomes contains a functional allele of a selectable
   marker gene and the other X   chromosome does not contain a
25 functional allele of the selectable marker gene;   (b)
   selecting cells that do not express the selectable marker
   gene, thereby selecting cells in which the inactive X
   chromosome contains a functional allele of the selectable
   marker gene;  (c) subjecting the cells to one or more
30 treatments capable of reprogramming somatic cells; and (d)
   selecting cells that express the selectable marker gene,

                                -89
   thereby selecting cells in which the inactive X chromosome
   has become transcriptionally active.    Such cells have an
   increased likelihood of having been reprogrammed to an ES
   like state relative to cells in which the inactive X
 5 chromosome has not become transcriptionally active.
        Somatic cells that have a first X chromosome that lacks
   a functional allele of a selectable marker can be prepared
   in a variety of ways.  For example, homologous recombination
   could be used to delete all or part of the allele.    Cells in
10 which the allele was successfully inactivated can be
   selected using conventional methods.    Alternatively, the
   cells may not be genetically engineered but may instead
   harbor a mutation that inactivates the gene.    The cells may
   have been exposed to a mutagen or condition such as UV
15 radiation to increase the proportion of cells having such a
   mutation or the mutation may spontaneously arise under
   selective pressure. In one embodiment, the selectable marker
   is one that is usable for positive and negative selection
   such as Hprt. In such embodiments cells in which one X
20 chromosome lacks a functional allele of the gene are
   selected under conditions that select against cells that
   express the marker. For example in the case of Hprt, cells
   may be selected by culturing them in medium containing
   thioguanine. After subjecting the cells to a treatment
25 capable of reprogramming somatic cells, cells that express
   the marker are selected, e.g.,   by culturing in HAT medium.
   Such cells will have reactivated the inactive X chromosome
   and thus have an increased likelihood of having been
   reprogrammed. At least some of the cells identified using
30 the method are reprogrammed somatic cells.

                                -90
        Certain methods of the invention include a step of
   selecting cells that express a marker that is expressed by
   multipotent or pluripotent cells.   The marker may be
   specifically expressed in such cells.    One could culture
 5 potentially reprogrammed cells in the presence of
   antibodies that have a detectable label attached thereto to
   and use flow cytometry (e.g., fluorescence activated cell
   sorting) to separate cells that express the marker
   (indicative of a reprogrammed state) from cells that do not.
10 In other embodiments, an affinity-based separation method is
   used to separate reprogrammed cells from cells that are not
   reprogrammed.   In one embodiment, reprogrammed somatic cells
   are selected by contacting the cells with a solid or semi
   solid support that has a binding agent that specifically
15 binds to an ES cell surface marker attached thereto.     The
   support has a surface to which a binding agent can be bound.
   The surface could comprise, e.g.,  plastic (polypropylene,
   polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride,
   polytetrafluorethylene, polyethylene, polyamides),   glass,
20 metal (e.g.,  silicon), agarose, etc.   Useful supports
   include agarose or agarose-based matrices   (e.g., agarose or
   sepharose beads), particles that consist at least in part of
   a magnetic material, particles comprising polymers such as
   styrene or latex, tissue culture vessels or plates, tubes
25 (e.g., microfuge tubes),  membranes, etc.   In some
   embodiments the support is a population of particles such as
   magnetic beads.   Such particles are often under 100 microns
   in longest axial dimension, e.g.,  between 1 and 10 microns,
   and often approximately spherical.    Magnetic beads and
30 methods of using them for cell separation are known in the
   art and are commercially available from many sources.     For

                                -91
   example, Dynabeads  (Dynal Biotech, Norway) are
   superparamagnetic polymer beads that have a dispersion of
   magnetic material throughout with a thin polymer shell.
   Binding agents can be covalently or noncovalently attached
 5 to the surface using conventional methods.   The binding
   agent could be a naturally occurring or artificial peptide
   or polypeptide, small molecule, nucleic acid (e.g., an
   aptamer),  that specifically binds to the ES cell surface
   marker.   In one embodiment the binding agent is an antibody
10 or antibody fragment.   In another embodiment the binding
   agent is a ligand for a receptor.   In some embodiments cells
   are incubated in a liquid medium in the presence of magnetic
   beads that have a binding agent attached thereto.   A
   magnetic force is used to retrieve the beads from the
15 medium.   For example, the beads may be attracted to the side
   of a vessel and the medium removed.   Cells are recovered
   from the beads, or the beads are removed from the cells,
   using standard methods such as competition with the binding
   agent or by contacting the beads with an affinity reagent
20 that binds to a molecule present on the surface of the beads
   but does not bind to the cells.
        Alternately or additionally, one could select cells
   that do not express markers characteristic of somatic cells
   from which the potentially reprogrammed cells were derived
25 and which are not expressed in ES cells generated using
   conventional methods.   For example, one could incubate cells
   in the presence of a first binding agent (e.g., an antibody)
   that binds to a marker characteristic of a somatic cell and
   not found on a pluripotent cell.   If the binding agent is
30 labeled, flow cytometry could be used to isolate cells that
   do not have the antibody attached thereto.   In another

                                -92
   embodiment, a second binding agent that binds to the first
   the binding agent is used to remove cells that have the
   first binding agent bound thereto.  In another embodiment
   the first binding agent is crosslinked and precipitated to
 5 remove cells that express a marker characteristic of somatic
   cells.  Other methods of separating cells may utilize
   differences in average cell size or density that may exist
   between pluripotent cells and somatic cells.   For example,
   cells can be filtered through materials having pores that
10 will allow only certain cells to pass through.
        The methods of the invention may be combined in any
   order.  In some embodiments cell that express a first ES
   cell marker are selected, and the cells are then assessed
   for an additional pluripotency characteristic such as
15 expression of a second ES cell marker, resistance to DNA
   methylation, having two transcriptionally active X
   chromosomes, etc. In some embodiments cell that are
   resistant to DNA methylation and/or have two
   transcriptionally active X chromosomes are selected, thereby
20 providing a population of cells enriched for reprogrammed
   cells.  The cells are then subjected to an additional
   enrichment step comprising selecting cells that express a
   first ES cell marker.  Optionally the cells are then tested
   to determine whether they express a second ES cell marker.
25 Any number of markers may be used to enrich for ES-like
   cells and/or their expression assessed.
        The invention thus allows the artisan to prepare a
   purified preparation of pluripotent reprogrammed somatic
   cells. Somatic cells may be reprogrammed to gain either a
30 complete set of the pluripotency characteristics and are
   thus pluripotent. Alternatively, somatic cells may be

                                 -93
   reprogrammed to gain only a subset of the pluripotency
   characteristics.   In another alternative, somatic cells may
   be reprogrammed to be multipotent.
        The instant specification provides a number of methods
 5 to identify and/or select reprogrammed cells, wherein the
   cells have a genetic modification usable for such purposes
   and/or wherein a chemical or genetic selection based on such
   genetic modification is employed.    However, as described
   herein, somatic cells that have been reprogrammed to an ES
10 like state can be identified without use of such chemical or
   genetic selection.    Thus the invention further provides
   methods of deriving reprogrammed somatic cells from somatic
   cells that are not genetically modified, and further
   provides reprogrammed somatic cells derived using the
15 inventive methods.    In some embodiments somatic cells that
   are not genetically modified can be obtained from a variety
   of species. For example, suitable cells can be obtained from
   mice, rats, rabbits, farm animals (e.g., sheep, goats,
   horses, cows and the like),   companion animals  (e.g., dogs,
20 cats and the like),   primates and humans and used to derive
   ES-like pluripotent or multipotent cells.    In some
   embodiments the methods employ morphological criteria to
   identify colonies containing reprogrammed somatic cells from
   a population of cells. The colonies are subcloned and/or
25 passaged once or more in certain embodiments, thereby
   obtaining a population of cells enriched for ES-like cells.
   The enriched population may contain at least 80%, 85%,    90P,
   95%, 96%, 97%,,  98%,  99% or more, e.g., 100% ES-like cells.
   The invention provides cell lines of somatic cells    that have
30 been stably and heritably reprogrammed to an ES-like state.

                                -94
         "Genetic selection" encompasses methods in which
   genetic material  (e.g., DNA) is introduced into cells,
   wherein introduced genetic material allows desired cells
    (e.g., cells having one or more desired characteristics) to
 5 be distinguished from other cells.    For example, an
   endogenous pluripotency gene linked to DNA encoding a
   detectable marker such as a fluorescent protein, would allow
   genetic selection.   "Chemical selection" encompasses methods
   that involve exposing cells to a chemical agent that exerts
10 negative selective pressure on undesired cells, e.g., kills
   them or reduces their rate of proliferation and/or allows
   only desired cells to survive and/or proliferate.     For
   example, an endogenous pluripotency gene linked to DNA
   encoding a drug resistance marker such as neo, would allow
15 chemical selection by culturing cells in the presence of a
   chemical agent  (e.g., G418) that kills cells not expressing
   the drug resistance marker.   Such selection would also be
   considered a genetic selection since it makes use of
   introduced genetic material.     In some embodiments, a
20 chemical selection method is employed, but the method does
   not depend on the presence of genetic material not naturally
   found in the cell.   For example, the chemical selection may
   be directed against a naturally occurring cell product,
   e.g., a cell surface marker.    In some embodiments the
25 chemical selection method does not employ an antibiotic.
         The invention provides methods of deriving reprogrammed
   somatic cells from somatic cells without requiring genetic
   modification of the cells that are to be reprogrammed.    In
   some embodiments, the reprogrammed somatic cells do not
30 contain exogenous genetic material introduced into the
   genome of said cells  (or ancestors of said cells) by the

                                -95
   hand of man.    In some embodiments the reprogrammed somatic
   cells do not contain genetic material introduced either
   transiently into the cells or introduced stably into the
   genome of said cells  (or ancestors of said cells) by the
 5 hand of man.   In some embodiments, cells are transiently
   transfected with a construct that encodes a protein that
   contributes to reprogramming, wherein the construct encodes
   a drug resistance marker or other selectable marker.
   Selective pressure is maintained for a sufficient period of
10 time for the cells to become reprogrammed.   Subsequently,
   after a sufficient period of time for the cells to become at
   least in part reprogrammed and/or to activate endogenous
   pluripotency gene(s) such as Oct4, a second selection is
   applied to select cells that have lost the construct.     In
15 some embodiments the reprogrammed somatic cells do contain
   exogenously introduced genetic material in their genome, but
   such genetic material  is introduced for purposes of  (i)
   inducing the reprogramming process and/or (ii) correcting a
   genetic defect in such cells or enabling such cells to
20 synthesize a desired protein for therapeutic purposes and,
   in either case, is not used to select reprogrammed cells.
   It will be appreciated that genetic modifications performed
   in order to induce reprogramming are distinct from genetic
   modifications whose purpose is to allow selection of
25 reprogrammed cells and does not itself contribute to
   reprogramming.
        In some embodiments, the methods employ morphological
   criteria to identify reprogrammed somatic cells from among a
   population of somatic cells that are not reprogrammed.     In
30 some embodiments, the methods employ morphological criteria
   to identify somatic cells that have been reprogrammed to an

                                 -96
   ES-like state from among a population of cells that are not
   reprogrammed or are only partly reprogrammed to an ES-like
   state.   "Morphological criteria" is used in a broad sense to
   refer to any visually detectable aspect of the size, shape,
 5 structure, organization, and/or physical form of the cells
   or colonies.   Identification based on morphological is
   distinct from identification based on visually detectable
   expression of a particular selectable marker (e.g., a
   fluorescent protein) by the cells.    Morphological criteria
10 include, e.g.,  the shape of the colonies, the sharpness of
   colony boundaries (with sharp boundaries characterizing
   colonies of ES-like cells),   the density of the cells in the
   colonies (with increased density characterizing colonies of
   ES-like cells),  and/or the small size and distinct shape of
15 the reprogrammed cells relative to non-reprogrammed cells,
   etc.   The invention encompasses identifying and, optionally,
   isolating colonies   (or cells from colonies) wherein the
   colonies display one or more such characteristics depicted
   in these figures.
20      The reprogrammed somatic cells may be identified as
   colonies growing in a first tissue culture dish, and the
   colonies, or portions thereof, transferred to a second
   tissue culture dish, thereby isolating reprogrammed somatic
   cells.   "Tissue culture dish" as used herein refers to any
25 vessel, plate, receptacle, container, etc.,   in which living
   cells can be maintained in vitro.    The bottom of the tissue
   culture dish may be at least in part coated with a
   substrate, e.g., a protein or mixture thereof such as
   gelatin, Matrigel, fibronectin or other cell adhesion
30 molecule, collagen, protein-based or non-protein based
   hydrogel, etc.,  on which the cells are disposed.    In some

                                -97
   embodiments the dish contains a feeder cells    (optionally
   irradiated),  which may at least in part coat the bottom of
   the dish.
        In some embodiments, the methods employ complement
 5 mediated lysis to eliminate at least some non-reprogrammed
   somatic cells from a population of cells that contains at
   least some reprogrammed somatic cells.    In one embodiment, a
   population of somatic cells is contacted with a complement
   fixing antibody (e.g., an IgG or IgM antibody) that binds to
10 a cell surface marker that is not detectably expressed by
   pluripotent cells, e.g., ES cells (or is expressed at much
   lower, e.g.,  insignificant levels by such cells) but is
   expressed by unreprogrammed somatic cells    (e.g.,
   unreprogrammed fibroblasts).    Such lower levels may be,
15 e.g., less than 20%, less than 10%, less than 5%, or less
   than 1% the average level of expression found in
   unreprogrammed cells in various embodiments of the
   invention, or such level as will not be sufficient to
   support complement-mediated lysis of a majority of    the
20 cells.  The cells are further contacted with complement
   components ("complement") sufficient to mediate lysis of the
   cells to which the antibody is bound.    In one embodiment the
   cells are contacted with serum, e.g.,   mouse or human serum
   containing complement.   In one embodiment the cells are
25 contacted with recombinant complement components    (e.g.,
   complement components sufficient to mediate the classical
   pathway such as Cl,  C2, C3, C4,  C5, and C6-C9).   Cells that
   survive in the presence of complement and the antibody are
   identified as having an increased likelihood of being
30 reprogrammed.   The method is of use to enrich or select for
   reprogrammed cells.   In one embodiment, the cell surface

                                -98
   marker is an MHC Class I antigen ("MHC").    For example, as
   shown in Example 9, mouse cells that have been reprogrammed
   to an ES-like state  (iPS cells) turn off MHC.   Cells picked
   randomly after transduction with factors that result in
 5 reprogramming and sorted for Oct4 activation are MHC
   negative.   Furthermore, MHC negative cells in a cell
   population transduced with the factors are more likely to be
   reprogrammed.   Infected cells sorted for MHC negative; many
   more colonies than in high MHC population.    Complement
10 mediated depletion (killing of un-reprogrammed cells) leads
   to enrichment of SSEA1 positive cells.    Complement-mediated
   selection leads to much higher number of colonies exhibiting
   morphological features indicative of reprogramming.
        In some embodiments of the invention two or more
15 methods, neither of which employs genetic or chemical
   selection, are employed.   For example, the invention
   provides a method of deriving reprogrammed cells comprising
   steps of:  (i) providing a population of non-genetically
   modified cells, at least some of which are partly or fully
20 reprogrammed to an ES-like state;   (ii) enriching for partly
   or fully reprogrammed cells using complement-mediated lysis
   to eliminate at least some unreprogrammed cells;   and  (iii)
   identifying reprogrammed cells or colonies comprising such
   cells using morphological criteria.
25      Any of the methods of the invention that relate to
   generating, selecting, or isolating a reprogrammed somatic
   cell may include a step of obtaining a somatic cell or
   obtaining a population of somatic cells from a donor in need
   of cell therapy.    Reprogrammed somatic cells are generated,
30 selected, or identified from among the obtained cells or
   cells descended from the obtained cells.    Optionally the

                                -99
   cell(s) are expanded in culture prior to generating,
   selecting, or identifying reprogrammed somatic cell(s)
   genetically matched to the donor.
 5 Methods for Screening for an Agent that Reprograms Somatic
   Cells
         The present invention also provides methods for
   identifying an agent that reprograms somatic cells to a
   less-differentiated state, as well as the agents thus
10 identified.   In one embodiment, the methods comprise
   contacting the engineered or selected somatic cells of the
   invention with a candidate agent, selecting for cells that
   express the appropriate selectable marker.   The presence of
   cells that express the appropriate selectable marker
15 indicates that the agent reprograms somatic cells.    Such an
   agent is referred to as a "reprogramming agent" or "an agent
   that reprograms cells" for purpose of this application.    In
   some embodiments of the invention the reprogramming agent is
   not Sox2, Oct4, c-myc, Klf4 or Nanog.
20       In a further embodiment, the methods comprise
   contacting the engineered somatic cells of the invention
   with a candidate agent, selecting for cells that express the
   appropriate selectable marker, and assessing the cells so
   selected for pluripotency characteristics.   The presence of
25 a complete set of pluripotency characteristics indicates
   that the agent reprograms somatic cells to become
   pluripotent.
         In a further embodiment the invention provides a method
   of identifying an agent that reprograms somatic cells to a
30 less differentiated state, the method comprising steps of:

                                -100
   (a) contacting somatic cells with a candidate reprogramming
   agent, wherein the somatic cells are sensitive to reduced
   DNA methylation; and (b) determining whether more of the
   cells are resistant to reduced DNA methylation than would be
 5 expected if the agent does not reprogram somatic cells,
   wherein the candidate reprogramming agent is identified as a
   reprogramming agent if more of the cells are resistant to
   reduced DNA methylation than would be expected if the
   candidate reprogramming agent does not reprogram somatic
10 cells.  In certain embodiments the method comprises
   maintaining the cells in culture under conditions of reduced
   DNA methylation and determining whether more of the cells
   survive than would be expected if the agent does not
   reprogram somatic cells.   In certain embodiments of the
15 invention the cells are proliferating cells, i.e.,  they are
   not post-mitotic.
        In a further embodiment the invention provides a method
   of identifying an agent that reprograms somatic cells to a
   less differentiated state, the method comprising steps of:
20 (a) contacting somatic cells with a candidate reprogramming
   agent, wherein the somatic cells are sensitive to reduced
   DNA methylation; and (b) determining the amount of cells
   that are resistant to reduced DNA methylation, wherein an
   increased amount of cells that are resistant to reduced DNA
25 methylation, as compared to a control, is indicative of the
   candidate agent being a reprogramming agent. The control may
   be a parallel sample that has not been treated with the
   candidate agent, or which has been treated with a candidate
   having a known effect  (e.g., a positive effect, a negative
30 effect, or no effect).   Alternatively, the control may be a
   predetermined value for a particular assay.

                                -101
        The cells may be treated so as to reduce methylation of
   genomic DNA, e.g., by inhibiting expression of a DNA
   methyltransferase and/or by contacting the cells with an
   agent that inhibits DNA methyltransferase activity or
 5 otherwise inhibits any step in the pathway leading to DNA
   methylation.  Suitable methods and agents are described
   above.  In one embodiment, DNA methylation is reduced by
   reversibly inducing expression of an interfering RNA in the
   cells, wherein the interfering RNA inhibits expression of a
10 DNA methyltransferase such as DNMT1.   In some embodiments,
   expression of Dnmt  (e.g., Dnmtl) mRNA is reduced in the
   cells on average by at least 50%, at least 90%, or more.    In
   some embodiments, expression of a DNMT protein, e.g., a
   DNMT1 protein, is reduced in the cells on average by at
15 least 50%, at least 90%, or more.   Engineered somatic cells
   useful for practicing the methods are described above.
        The cells may be maintained in culture for a period of
   time after being contacted with the candidate reprogramming
   agent but before subjecting the cells to conditions under
20 which DNA demethylation occurs.   For example, the cells may
   be maintained in the presence of the candidate reprogramming
   agent for between 1 and 12 hours, between 12 and 24 hours,
   between 24 and 48 hours, between 48 and 72 hours, etc.,
   prior to subjecting the cells to DNA demethylating
25 conditions.  Alternately the cells can be contacted with the
   agent after the DNA demethylating conditions have been
   imposed, e.g., up to 1, 2, 5, or 10 days after DNA
   demethylating conditions have been imposed.   The candidate
   reprogramming agent may, but need not be, present while the
30 cells are subjected to conditions under which DNA
   demethylation occurs.   The cells may be maintained in

                                -102
   culture under conditions of reduced DNA methylation, e.g.,
   under conditions in which expression of one or more
   endogenous DNMT proteins is reduced.   If cells are able to
   survive and/or proliferate under such conditions in greater
 5 numbers than would be expected if the cells are not
   reprogrammed, then the agent is identified as one that
   reprograms somatic cells.   The cells may be maintained in
   culture for, e.g.,- at least 5 days, up to 10 days, up to 15
   days, up to 30 days, etc.,  under conditions of reduced DNA
10 methylation.   In some embodiments the agent is identified as
   an agent that reprograms cells if there are at least 2, 5,
   or 10 times as many viable cells after said time period if
   the cells have been contacted with the candidate agent than
   if the cells have not been contacted with the agent.
15       The presence of living cells can be assessed using any
   method known in the art for assessing cell viability.   For
   example, the ability of the cells to exclude a dye, ability
   of cells to carry out an enzymatic reaction, MTT assay,
   measuring incorporation of a labeled substrate, or visual
20 observation under a microscope are examples of methods that
   can be used to determine whether there are living cells and
   to quantify them.   In some embodiments viable cells produce
   a fluorescent or luminescent signal.   In some embodiments,
   the assay comprises determining whether the cells are
25 undergoing apoptosis.   For example, expression of genes that
   induce or participate in apoptosis such as caspases can be
   assessed, or an assay that examines DNA fragmentation can be
   used.
         In some embodiments the method further comprises
30 determining whether the cells have an intact p53 pathway,
   such that the cells could under p53-dependent apoptosis

                                -103
   and/or cell cycle arrest.   In some embodiments cells that
   are resistant to DNA demethylation but are still able to
   undergo p53-dependent apoptosis are selected.     Thus in
   certain embodiments the candidate agent is not one that
 5 inhibits p53 or a gene required for cells to undergo p 5 3
   dependent apoptosis.
        The invention further provides a method of identifying
   an agent that reprograms somatic cells to a less
   differentiated state, the method comprising steps of;     (a)
10 providing somatic cells containing two X chromosomes, one of
   which is inactive;  (b) contacting the somatic cells with a
   candidate reprogramming agent;    (c) maintaining the cells in
   culture;  (d) determining whether more of the cells
   reactivate their inactive X chromosome while in culture than
15 would be expected if the candidate agent does not reprogram
   somatic cells, wherein the candidate agent is identified as
   a reprogramming agent if more of the cells reactivate their
   inactive X chromosome than would be expected if the
   candidate reprogramming agent does not reprogram somatic
20 cells.   In one embodiment the method comprises steps of:     (a)
   providing somatic cells containing two X chromosomes, one of
   which is inactive, wherein one of the X chromosomes contains
   a functional allele of a selectable marker gene and the
   other X chromosome does not contain a functional allele of
25 said selectable marker gene;   (b) selecting cells that do not
   express the selectable marker, thereby selecting cells in
   which the X chromosome that contains the selectable marker
   gene is inactive;  (c) contacting the somatic cells selected
   in step  (b) with a candidate reprogramming agent;    (d)
30 determining whether more of the cells express the selectable
   marker than would be expected if the X chromosome that

                                -104
   contains the functional allele of the selectable marker gene
   remains inactive, thereby determining whether more of the
   cells reactivated their inactive X chromosome than would be
   expected if the candidate reprogramming agent does not
 5 reprogram somatic cells; and    (e) identifying the candidate
   agent as a reprogramming agent if more of the cells
   reactivate their inactive X chromosome than would be
   expected if the candidate reprogramming agent does not
   reprogram somatic cells.   In one embodiment the afore
10 mentioned method comprises steps of:     selecting cells that
   express a functional form of the selectable marker after
   contacting the cells with the candidate reprogramming agent,
   thereby selecting for cells that have reactivated their
   inactive X chromosome.   In certain embodiments of the
15 invention the selectable marker is suitable for positive
   selection and negative selection.     In certain embodiments
   the method comprises maintaining the cells under conditions
   in which cells that express a functional form of the
   selectable marker substantially do not survive; and after
20 treating the cells with a candidate reprogramming agent
   maintaining cells under conditions in which cells that do
   not express a functional form of the selectable marker
   substantially do not survive.     In certain embodiments the
   gene is an endogenous gene present on the X chromosome,
25 e.g., the gene encodes hypoxanthine-guanine
   phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT).     In certain embodiments
   the X chromosome that lacks a functional allele of said gene
   contains an engineered genetic modification that inactivates
   the gene.  In certain embodiments the method comprises steps
30 of:

                                 -105
   (a) providing somatic cells containing two X chromosomes,
   one of which is inactive, wherein one of the X chromosomes
   contains a functional allele of a first selectable marker
   gene whose expression can be selected against and a
 5 functional form of a second selectable marker gene whose
   expression can be selected for, and wherein the other X
   chromosome lacks a functional allele of each of said genes;
   (b) selecting cells that do not express a functional form of
   the first selectable marker, thereby selecting cells in
10 which the X chromosome that contains the functional allele
   is inactive;  (c) contacting the somatic cells with a
   candidate reprogramming agent;     (d) selecting cells that
   express a functional form of the second selectable marker,
   thereby selecting for cells that have reactivated their
15 inactive X chromosome;   (e) determining whether more of the
   cells reactivated the inactive X chromosome than would be
   expected if the candidate reprogramming agent does not
   reprogram somatic cells; and (f) identifying the candidate
   agent as a reprogramming agent if more of the cells
20 reactivated their inactive X chromosome than would be
   expected if the candidate reprogramming agent does not
   reprogram somatic cells.
        Candidate agents used in the invention encompass
   numerous chemical classes, though typically they are organic
25 molecules, including small organic compounds (e.g.,
   compounds having a molecular weight equal to or less than
   1500 daltons and multiple carbon-carbon bonds).     Candidate
   agents are also found among biomolecules including peptides,
   saccharides, fatty acids, steroids, purines, pyrimidines,
30 nucleic acids and derivatives, structural analogs or
   combinations thereof.

                                -106
        Candidate agents may be naturally arising, recombinant
   or designed in the laboratory.    The candidate agents may be
   isolated from microorganisms, animals, or plants, or may be
   produced recombinantly, or synthesized by chemical methods
 5 known in the art.   In some embodiments, candidate agents are
   isolated from libraries of synthetic or natural compounds
   using the methods of the present invention.     For example,
   numerous means are available for random and directed
   synthesis of a wide variety of organic compounds and
10 biomolecules, including expression of randomized
   oligonucleotides and oligopeptides.    Alternatively,
   libraries of natural compounds in the form of bacterial,
   fungal, plant and animal extracts are available or readily
   produced.  Additionally, natural or synthetically produced
15 libraries and compounds are readily modified through
   conventional chemical, physical and biochemical means, and
   may be used to produce combinatorial libraries.     Known
   pharmacological agents may be subjected to directed or
   random chemical modifications, including acylation,
20 alkylation, esterification, amidification, to produce
   structural analogs.
        There are numerous commercially available compound
   libraries, including, for example, the Chembridge DIVERSet.
   Libraries are also available from academic investigators,
25 such as the Diversity set from the NCI developmental
   therapeutics program.
        The screening methods mentioned above are based on
   assays performed on cells.   These cell-based assays may be
   performed in a high throughput screening    (HTS) format, which
30 has been described in the art.    For example, Stockwell et
   al. described a high-throughput screening of small molecules

                                -107
   in miniaturized mammalian cell-based assays involving post
   translational modifications   (Stockwell et al., 1999).
   Likewise, Qian et al. described a leukemia cell-based assay
   for high-throughtput screening for anti-cancer agents (Qian
 5 et al.,  2001).  Both references are incorporated herein in
   their entirety.
        A reprogramming agent may belong to any one of many
   different categories.   For example, a reprogramming agent
   may be a chromatin remodeling agent.    A chromatin remodeling
10 agent may be a protein involved in chromatin remodeling or
   an agent   known to alter chromatin toward a more open
   structure, such as a DNA methylation inhibitor or a histone
   deacelyation inhibitor.   Exemplary compounds include 5-aza
   cytidine, TSA and valproic acid.    For another example, such
15 an agent may be a pluripotency protein, including, for
   example, Nanog, Oct-4 and Stella.    Such an agent may also be
   a gene essential for pluripotency in at least some contexts,
   including, for example, Sox2, FoxD3, and LIF, and Stat3.
   See Smith et al. 1988, William et al.,   1988, Ihle, 1996,
20 Avilion et al.,  2003, and Hanna et al.,  2002).  It will be
   appreciated that the candidate reprogramming agent is
   typically one that is not present in standard culture
   medium, or if present is present in lower amounts.
        It will also be appreciated that a useful reprogramming
25 agent or other form of reprogramming treatment need not be
   capable of reprogramming all types of somatic cells and need
   not be capable of reprogramming all somatic cells of a given
   cell type.   If the treatment results in a population
   enriched for reprogrammed cells relative to the untreated
30 population (i.e., has a higher proportion of reprogrammed
   cells than the starting population),   it is of use in the

                                -108
   present invention.  For example, and without limitation, a
   reprogramming treatment that reprograms between .000001% and
   100% of the treated cells is of use.   Also, methods that
   provide a population of somatic cells that is enriched for
 5 reprogrammed cells are of use even if a substantial fraction
   of the cells are not reprogrammed.   Cells in such a
   population have an increased likelihood of being
   reprogrammed cells relative to an otherwise equivalent
   population of cells that has not been subjected to the
10 method.  Without limitation, and by way of example, a
   screen or selection that results in a population of cells in
   which at least 5% of the cells are reprogrammed is of use.
   Without limitation, a method that results in a population
   that is enriched for reprogrammed cells by a factor of 2, 5,
15 10, 50, 100 or more  (i.e., the fraction of reprogrammed
   cells in the population is 2, 5, 10, 50, or 100 times more
   than present in a starting population) is of use.   Multiple
   selection and/or screening procedures can be employed to
   provide populations of cells that are increasingly enriched
20 for reprogrammed cells.
        In one embodiment of the invention, induced pluripotent
   cells for use in screening for candidate reprogramming
   agents are prepared by a method comprising providing one or
   more somatic cells that each contain at least one
25 exogenously introduced factor that contributes to
   reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent state, wherein
   each of said exogenously introduced factors is introduced
   using an inducible vector which is not subject to
   methylation-induced silencing and the expression of which is
30 controlled by regulatory elements induced by distinct
   inducers (i.e., each exogenously introduced factor is

                                -109
   separately inducible);  (b) maintaining said one or more
   cells under conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
   cells and for activity of said at least one exogenously
   introduced factor for a period of time sufficient to
 5 reprogram said cell or to activate at least one endogenous
   pluripotency gene;  (c) functionally inactivating said at
   least one exogenously introduced factor;    (d) selecting one
   or more cells which display a marker of pluripotency;    (e)
   generating a chimeric embryo utilizing said one or more
10 cells which display a marker of pluripotency;    (f) obtaining
   one or more somatic cells, e.g., differentiated somatic
   cells, from said chimeric embryo;    (g) maintaining said one
   or more somatic cells under conditions appropriate for
   proliferation of said cells and for activity of said at
15 least one exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
   sufficient to activate at least one endogenous pluripotency
   gene; and (h) differentiating between cells which display
   one or more markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
   In a preferred embodiment the exogenously introduced factors
20 are sufficient for reprogramming in combination but
   insufficient if less than the combination is expressed.
   Subcombinations of the exogenously introduced factors can be
   inducibly expressed, and candidate reprogramming agents,
   e.g.,  libraries of agents, can be screened for their ability
25 to substitute for the missing factor(s).
         In some embodiments of the invention the reprogramming
   agent is selected from genes encoding Oct-4, Sox-2, c-Myc,
   and Klf4 and/or the proteins themselves.     In some
   embodiments at least 2, 3, or all of said agents are
30 introduced into somatic cells.    one aspect of the invention
   comprises method of identifying alternate reprogramming

                                -110
   agents.  For example, 3 of said agents can be introduced
   into cells, thereby rendering such cells susceptible to
   reprogramming. The cells are then used in an inventive
   screening method to identify a fourth agent or combination
 5 of agents that reprograms the cells to an ES-like state.    In
   one embodiment, the method is used to identify an agent that
   substitutes for c-myc.   In one embodiment, the method is
   used to identify an agent that substitutes for Klf4.   In one
   embodiment, the method is used to identify an agent that
10 substitutes for Sox2.  In one embodiment, the method is used
   to identify an agent that substitutes for Oct-4.   In some
   embodiments the methods are practiced using human cells and
   human analogs of the relevant factors are expressed.   In
   some embodiments the cells are the engineered cells of the
15 present invention that contain an endogenous pluripotency
   gene linked to a selectable marker.
   Methods for Gene Identification
        The present invention provides methods for identifying
20 a gene that activates the expression of an endogenous
   pluripotency gene in somatic cells.   The methods comprise:
   transfecting the somatic cells of the present invention with
   a cDNA library prepared from ES cells or oocytes, selecting
   for cells that express the first selectable marker, and
25 assessing the expression of the first endogenous
   pluripotency gene in the transfected cells that express the
   first selectable marker.   The expression of the first
   endogenous pluripotency gene indicates that the cDNA encodes
   a gene that activates the expression of an endogenous
30 pluripotency gene in somatic cells.

                                -11l1
        The methods are applicable for identifying a gene that
   activates the expression of at least two endogenous
   pluripotency genes in somatic cells.   The somatic cells used
   in the methods further comprise a second endogenous
 5 pluripotency gene linked to a second selectable marker.    The
   methods are modified to select for transfected cells that
   express both selectable markers, among which the expression
   of the first and the second endogenous pluripotency genes
   are assessed.   The expression of both the first and the
10 second endogenous pluripotency genes indicates that the cDNA
   encodes a gene that activates the expression of at least two
   pluripotency genes in somatic cells.
        The methods are further applicable for identifying a
   gene that activates the expression of at least three
15 endogenous pluripotency genes in somatic cells.    The somatic
   cells used in the methods further comprise a third
   endogenous pluripotency gene linked to a third selectable
   marker.  The methods are modified to select for transfected
   cells that express all three selectable markers, among which
20 the expression of all three endogenous pluripotency genes
   are assessed.   The expression of all three endogenous
   pluripotency genes indicates that the cDNA encodes a gene
   that activates the expression of at least three pluripotency
   genes in somatic cells.
25      The practice of the present invention will employ,
   unless otherwise indicated, conventional techniques of mouse
   genetics, developmental biology, cell biology, cell culture,
   molecular biology, transgenic biology, microbiology,
   recombinant DNA, and immunology, which are within the skill
30 of the art.   Such techniques are described in the
   literature.   See, for example, Current Protocols in Cell

                                -112
   Biology, ed. by Bonifacino, Dasso, Lippincott-Schwartz,
   Harford, and Yamada, John Wiley and Sons, Inc.,  New York,
   1999; Manipulating the Mouse Embryos, A Laboratory Manual,
   3rd Ed., by Hogan et al.,  Cold Spring Contain Laboratory
 5 Press, Cold Spring Contain, New York, 2003; Gene Targeting:
   A Practical Approach, IRL Press at Oxford University Press,
   Oxford,1993; and Gene Targeting Protocols, Human Press,
   Totowa, New Jersey, 2000.
10 Reprogrammed Somatic Cells and Their Uses
        The invention thus provides a number of significant
   advances that facilitate therapeutic uses of reprogrammed
   somatic cells including the following:  (i) the ability to
   reprogram somatic cells lacking genetic modification to an
15 ES-like state and select such reprogrammed cells from a
   population of cells that are not reprogrammed or are only
   partly reprogrammed to an ES-like state; and (ii) the
   recognition that stable reprogramming can be achieved by
   transient presence of reprogramming agents rather than
20 requiring stable and ongoing expression or exposure to such
   agents.  The first advance allows, among other things, the
   efficient derivation of ES-like cells from donor-specific
   somatic cells without requiring genetic modification for
   purposes of selection.   The second advance allows, among
25 other things,  reprogramming using methods such as transient
   transfection (e.g., of nucleic acid constructs encoding a
   protein that contributes to reprogramming), protein
   transduction, and other methods of introducing agents into
   cells that neither require modification of the genome or the
30 introduction of stably heritable genetic elements into the
   somatic cells.  In summary, these advances open the

                                -113
   possibility of obtaining donor-specific ES-like cells by
   reprogramming somatic cells without the use of genetic
   modification.
        The present invention also provides reprogrammed
 5 somatic cells  (RSCs), including reprogrammed pluripotent
   somatic cells  (RPSCs), produced by the methods of the
   invention.  These methods, useful for the generation of
   cells of a desired cell type, have wide range of
   applications.   For one example, these methods have
10 applications in livestock management, involving the precise
   genetic manipulation of animals for economic or health
   purposes.  For another example, these methods have medical
   application in treating or preventing a condition.
        Accordingly, the invention provides methods for the
15 treatment or prevention of a condition in a mammal.    In one
   embodiment, the methods start with obtaining somatic cells
   from the individual, reprogramming the somatic cells so
   obtained by methods of the present invention to obtain
   RPSCs.  The RPSCs are then cultured under conditions
20 suitable for development of the RPSCs into cells of a
   desired cell type.   The developed cells of the desired cell
   type are harvested and introduced into the individual to
   treat the condition.   In an alternative embodiment, the
   methods start with obtaining somatic cells from the
25 individual, reprogramming the somatic cells so obtained by
   methods of the present invention.   The RPSCs are then
   cultured under conditions suitable for development of the
   RPSCs into a desired organ, which is harvested and
   introduced into the individual to treat the condition.    The
30 condition may be any condition in which cell or organ
   function is abnormal and/or reduced below normal levels.

                                -114
   Thus the invention encompasses obtaining somatic cells from
   a donor in need of cell therapy, subjecting the cells to a
   reprogramming agent such as contacting the cells with a
   reprogramming agent, selecting reprogrammed somatic cells
 5 according to a method of the invention.   A donor in need of
   cell therapy may suffer from any condition, wherein the
   condition or one or more symptoms of the condition can be
   alleviated by administering cells to the donor and/or in
   which the progression of the condition can be slowed by
10 administering cells to the donor.
        The RPSCs in certain embodiments of the present
   invention are ES-like cells, and thus may be induced to
   differentiate to obtain the desired cell types according to
   known methods to differentiate ES cells.   For example, the
15 RPSCs may be induced to differentiate into hematopoietic
   stem cells, muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells, liver cells,
   pancreatic cells, cartilage cells, epithelial cells, urinary
   tract cells, nervous system cells (e.g., neurons) etc., by
   culturing such cells in differentiation medium and under
20 conditions which provide for cell differentiation. Medium
   and methods which result in the differentiation of embryonic
   stem cells are known in the art as are suitable culturing
   conditions.
        For example, Palacios et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.,
25 USA, 92: 7530-37  (1995) teaches the production of
   hematopoietic stem cells from an embryonic cell line by
   subjecting stem cells to an induction procedure comprising
   initially culturing aggregates of such cells in a suspension
   culture medium lacking retinoic acid followed by culturing
30 in the same medium containing retinoic acid, followed by

                                -115
   transferral of cell aggregates to a substrate which provides
   for cell attachment.
         Moreover, Pedersen, J. Reprod. Fertil. Dev.,  6: 543-52
   (1994) is a review article which references numerous
 5 articles disclosing methods for in vitro differentiation of
   embryonic stem cells to produce various differentiated cell
   types including hematopoietic cells, muscle, cardiac muscle,
   nerve cells, among others.
         Further, Bain et al., Dev. Biol., 168:342-357   (1995)
10 teaches in vitro differentiation of embryonic stem cells to
   produce neural cells which possess neuronal properties.
   These references are exemplary of reported methods for
   obtaining differentiated cells from embryonic or stem-like
   cells. These references and in particular the disclosures
15 therein relating to methods for differentiating embryonic
   stem cells are incorporated by reference in their entirety
   herein.
         Thus, using known methods and culture medium, one
   skilled in the art may culture the subject embryonic or
20 stem-like cells to obtain desired differentiated cell types,
   e.g.,  neural cells, muscle cells, hematopoietic cells, etc.
   In addition, the use of inducible Bcl-2 or Bcl-xl might be
   useful for enhancing in vitro development of specific cell
   lineages. In vivo, BcI-2 prevents many, but not all, forms
25 of apoptotic cell death that occur during lymphoid and
   neural development. A thorough discussion of how Bcl-2
   expression might be used to inhibit apoptosis of relevant
   cell lineages following transfection of donor cells is
   disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 5,646,008, which is herein
30 incorporated by reference.

                               -116
        The subject RPSCs may be used to obtain any desired
   differentiated cell type. Therapeutic usages of such
   differentiated human cells are unparalleled. For example,
   human hematopoietic stem cells may be used in medical
 5 treatments requiring bone marrow transplantation. Such
   procedures are used to treat many diseases, e.g.,  late stage
   cancers such as ovarian cancer and leukemia, as well as
   diseases that compromise the immune system, such as AIDS.
   Hematopoietic stem cells can be obtained, e.g., by fusing
10 adult somatic cells of a cancer or AIDS patient, e.g.,
   epithelial cells or lymphocytes with an enucleated oocyte,
   e.g., bovine oocyte, obtaining embryonic or stem-like cells
   as described above, and culturing such cells under
   conditions which favor differentiation, until hematopoietic
15 stem cells are obtained. Such hematopoietic cells may be
   used in the treatment of diseases including cancer and AIDS.
        The methods of the present invention can also be used
   to treat, prevent, or stabilize a neurological disease such
   as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's
20 disease, or ALS, lysosomal storage diseases, multiple
   sclerosis, or a spinal cord injury.  For example, somatic
   cells may be obtained from the individual in need of
   treatment, and reprogrammed to gain pluripotency, and
   cultured to derive neurectoderm cells that may be used to
25 replace or assist the normal function of diseased or damaged
   tissue.
        For the treatment or prevention of endocrine
   conditions, RPSCs that produce a hormone, such as a growth
   factor, thyroid hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone,
30 parathyroid hormone, steroid, serotonin, epinephrine, or
   norepinephrine may be administered to a mammal.

                               -117
   Additionally, reprogrammed epithelial cells may be
   administered to repair damage to the lining of a body cavity
   or organ, such as a lung, gut, exocrine gland, or urogenital
   tract. It is also contemplated that RPSCs may be
 5 administered to a mammal to treat damage or deficiency of
   cells in an organ such as the bladder, brain, esophagus,
   fallopian tube, heart, intestines, gallbladder, kidney,
   liver, lung, ovaries, pancreas, prostate, spinal cord,
   spleen, stomach, testes, thymus, thyroid, trachea, ureter,
10 urethra, or uterus.
        The present invention has the potential to provide an
   essentially limitless supply of isogenic or syngeneic human
   cells suitable for transplantation. Such a supply would
   obviate the significant problem associated with current
15 transplantation methods, i.e., rejection of the transplanted
   tissue which may occur because of host versus graft or graft
   versus host rejection. Conventionally, rejection is
   prevented or reduced by the administration of anti-rejection
   drugs such as cyclosporin.  However, such drugs have
20 significant adverse side-effects, e.g., immunosuppression,
   carcinogenic properties, as well as being very expensive.
   The present invention may eliminate, or at least greatly
   reduce, the need for anti-rejection drugs, such as
   cyclosporine, imulan, FK-506, glucocorticoids, and
25 rapamycin, and derivatives thereof.
        RPSCs may also be combined with a matrix to form a
   tissue or organ in vitro or in vivo that may be used to
   repair or replace a tissue or organ in a recipient mammal.
   For example, RPSCs may be cultured in vitro in the presence
30 of a matrix to produce a tissue or organ of the urogenital
   system, such as the bladder, clitoris, corpus cavernosum,

                                -118
   kidney, testis, ureter, uretal valve, or urethra, which may
   then be transplanted into a mammal (Atala, Curr. Opin. Urol.
   9(6):517-526, 1999). In another transplant application,
   synthetic blood vessels are formed in vitro by culturing
 5 reprogrammed cells in the presence of an appropriate matrix,
   and then the vessels are transplanted into a mammal for the
   treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular or circulatory
   condition. For the generation of donor cartilage or bone
   tissue, RPSCs such as chondrocytes or osteocytes are
10 cultured in vitro in the presence of a matrix under
   conditions that allow the formation of cartilage or bone,
   and then the matrix containing the donor tissue is
   administered to a mammal. Alternatively, a mixture of the
   cells and a matrix may be administered to a mammal for the
15 formation of the desired tissue in vivo. Preferably, the
   cells are attached to the surface of the matrix or
   encapsulated by the matrix. Examples of matrices that may be
   used for the formation of donor tissues or organs include
   collagen matrices, carbon fibers, polyvinyl alcohol sponges,
20 acrylateamide sponges, fibrin-thrombin gels, hyaluronic
   acid-based polymers, and synthetic polymer matrices
   containing polyanhydride, polyorthoester, polyglycolic acid,
   or a combination thereof  (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos.
   4,846,835; 4,642,120; 5,786,217; and 5,041,138).
25      The RPSCs produced according to the invention may be
   used to produce genetically engineered or transgenic
   differentiated cells. Essentially, this will be effected by
   introducing a desired gene or genes, or removing all or part
   of an endogenous gene or genes of RPSCs produced according
30 to the invention, and allowing such cells to differentiate
   into the desired cell type. A preferred method for achieving

                                -119
   such modification is by homologous recombination because
   such technique can be used to insert, delete or modify a
   gene or genes at a specific site or sites in the stem-like
   cell genome.
 5      This methodology can be used to replace defective
   genes, e.g., defective immune system genes, cystic fibrosis
   genes, or to introduce genes which result in the expression
   of therapeutically beneficial proteins such as growth
   factors, lymphokines, cytokines, enzymes, etc.    For example,
10 the gene encoding brain derived growth factor maybe
   introduced into human embryonic or stem-like cells, the
   cells differentiated into neural cells and the cells
   transplanted into a Parkinson's patient to retard the loss
   of neural cells during such disease.    Examples of mutations
15 that may be rescued using these methods include mutations in
   the cystic fibrosis gene; mutations associated with
   Dunningan's disease such as the R482W, R482Q, and R584H
   mutations in the lamin A gene; and mutations associated with
   the autosomal-dominant form of Emery Deyfuss muscular
20 dystrophy such as the R249Q, R453W, and Q6STOP mutations in
   the lamin A gene. In the Q6STOP mutation, the codon for Gln6
   is mutated to a stop codon.
        Previously, cell types transfected with BDNF varied
   from primary cells to immortalized cell lines, either neural
25 or non-neural  (myoblast and fibroblast) derived cells. For
   example, astrocytes have been transfected with BDNF gene
   using retroviral vectors, and the cells grafted into a rat
   model of Parkinson's disease   (Yoshimoto et al., Brain
   Research, 691:25-36,  (1995)).   This ex vivo therapy reduced
30 Parkinson's-like symptoms in the rats up to 45% 32 days
   after transfer. Also, the tyrosine hydroxylase gene has been

                                 -120
   placed into astrocytes with similar results (Lundberg et
   al., Develop. Neurol.,   139:39-53 (1996) and references cited
   therein).
        However, such ex vivo systems have problems. In
 5 particular, retroviral vectors currently used are down
   regulated in vivo and the transgene is only transiently
   expressed (review by Mulligan, Science, 260: 926-932
   (1993)). Also, such studies used primary cells, astrocytes,
   which have finite life span and replicate slowly. Such
10 properties adversely affect the rate of transfection and
   impede selection of stably transfected cells. Moreover, it
   is almost impossible to propagate a large population of gene
   targeted primary cells to be used in homologous
   recombination techniques.
15      By contrast, the difficulties associated with
   retroviral systems should be eliminated by the use of RPSCs
   of the present invention, which are ES-like cells. Using
   known methods to introduced desired genes/mutations into ES
   cells, RPSCs may be genetically engineered, and the
20 resulting engineered cells differentiated into desired cell
   types, e.g.,  hematopoietic cells, neural cells, pancreatic
   cells, cartilage cells, etc. Genes which may be introduced
   into the RPSCs include, for example, epidermal growth
   factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, glial derived
25 neurotrophic growth factor, insulin-like growth factor (I
   and II), neurotrophin3, neurotrophin-4/5, ciliary
   neurotrophic factor, AFT- 1, cytokine genes   (interleukins,
   interferons, colony stimulating factors, tumor necrosis
   factors  (alpha and beta),  etc.), genes encoding therapeutic
30 enzymes, collagen, human serum albumin, etc.

                                 -121
         In addition, it is also possible to use one of the
   negative selection systems now known in the art for
   eliminating therapeutic cells from a patient if necessary.
   For example, donor cells transfected with the thymidine
 5 kinase (TK) gene will lead to the production of embryonic
   (e.g., ES-like) cells containing the TK gene.
   Differentiation of these cells will lead to the isolation of
   therapeutic cells of interest which also express the TK
   gene. Such cells may be selectively eliminated at any time
10 from a patient upon gancyclovir administration. Such a
   negative selection system is described in U.S. Patent No.
   5,698,446, and is herein incorporated by reference.    In
   other embodiments the cells are engineered to contain a gene
   that encodes a toxic product whose expression is under
15 control of an inducible promoter.    Administration of the
   inducer causes production of the toxic product, leading to
   death of the cells.   Thus any of the somatic cells of the
   invention may comprise a suicide gene, optionally contained
   in an expression cassette, which may be integrated into the
20 genome.   The suicide gene is one whose expression would be
   lethal to cells.   Examples include genes encoding diphtheria
   toxin, cholera toxin,. ricin, etc.   The suicide gene may be
   under control of expression control elements that do not
   direct expression under normal circumstances in the absence
25 of a specific inducing agent or stimulus.    However,
   expression can be induced under appropriate conditions,
   e.g.,  (i) by administering an appropriate inducing agent to
   a cell or organism or   (ii) if a particular gene (e.g., an
   oncogene, a gene involved in the cell division cycle, or a
30 gene indicative of dedifferentiation or loss of
   differentiation) is expressed in the cells, or (iii) if

                               -122
   expression of a gene such as a cell cycle control gene or a
   gene indicative of differentiation is lost.   See, e.g., U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,761,884.  In some embodiments the gene is only
   expressed following a recombination event mediated by a
 5 site-specific recombinase.   Such an event may bring the
   coding sequence into operable association with expression
   control elements such as a promoter.   The recombinase may be
   a different recombinase to that used to induce expression of
   the RNAi agent targeted to a DNA methyltransferase.
10 Expression of the suicide gene may be induced if it is
   desired to eliminate cells  (or their progeny) from the body
   of a subject after the cells (or their ancestors) have been
   administered to a subject.    For example, if a reprogrammed
   somatic cell gives rise to a tumor, the tumor can be
15 eliminated by inducing expression of the suicide gene.   In
   some embodiments tumor formation is inhibited because the
   cells are automatically eliminated upon dedifferentiation or
   loss of proper cell cycle control.
        Examples of diseases, disorders, or conditions that may
20 be treated or prevented include neurological, endocrine,
   structural, skeletal, vascular, urinary, digestive,
   integumentary, blood, immune, auto-immune, inflammatory,
   endocrine, kidney, bladder, cardiovascular, cancer,
   circulatory, digestive, hematopoeitic, and muscular
25 diseases, disorders, and conditions. In addition,
   reprogrammed cells may be used for reconstructive
   applications, such as for repairing or replacing tissues or
   organs.
        With respect to the therapeutic methods of the
30 invention, it is not intended that the administration of
   RPSCs to a mammal be limited to a particular mode of

                               -123
   administration, dosage, or frequency of dosing; the present
   invention contemplates all modes of administration,
   including intramuscular, intravenous, intraarticular,
   intralesional, subcutaneous, or any other route sufficient
 5 to provide a dose adequate to prevent or treat a disease.
   The RPSCs may be administered to the mammal in a single dose
   or multiple doses. When multiple doses are administered, the
   doses may be separated from one another by, for example, one
   week, one month, one year, or ten years. One or more growth
10 factors, hormones, interleukins, cytokines, or other cells
   may also be administered before, during, or after
   administration of the cells to further bias them towards a
   particular cell type.
        The RPSCs of the present invention may be used as an in
15 vitro model of differentiation, in particular for the study
   of genes which are involved in the regulation of early
   development.  Differentiated cell tissues and organs using
   the RPSCS may be used in drug studies.
        Furthermore, the RPSCs produced according to the
20 invention maybe introduced into animals, e.g., SCID mice,
   cows, pigs, e.g., under the renal capsule or intramuscularly
   and used to produce a teratoma therein. This teratoma can be
   used to derive different tissue types. Also, the inner cell
   mass produced by X-species nuclear transfer may be
25 introduced together with a biodegradable, biocompatible
   polymer matrix that provides for the formation of 3
   dimensional tissues. After tissue formation, the polymer
   degrades, ideally just leaving the donor tissue, e.g.,
   cardiac, pancreatic, neural, lung, liver. In some instances,
30 it may be advantageous to include growth factors and
   proteins that promote angiogenesis. Alternatively, the

                                  -124
   formation of tissues can be effected totally in vitro, with
   appropriate culture media and conditions, growth factors,
   and biodegradable polymer matrices.
 5 Applications of the Somatic Cell Reprogramming Methods and
   RPSCs in Animals
         The reprogramming methods disclosed herein may be used
   to generate RPSCs for a variety of animal species.      The
   RPSCs generated can be useful to produce desired animals.
10 Animals include, for example, avians and mammals as well as
   any animal that is an endangered species.      Exemplary birds
   include domesticated birds    (e.g., quail, chickens, ducks,
   geese, turkeys, and guinea hens) as well as other birds such
   as birds of prey (e.g., hawks, falcons, ospreys, condors,
15 etc.),  endangered birds   (e.g., parrots, California condor,
   etc.),  ostriches etc.   Exemplary mammals include urine,
   caprine, ovine, bovine, porcine, canine, feline and primate.
   Of these, preferred members include domesticated animals,
   including, for examples, cattle, buffalo, pigs, horses,
20 cows, rabbits, guinea pigs, sheep, and goats.
         RPSCs generated by the reprogramming methods of the
   present invention allows one, for the first time, to
   genetically engineer animals for which ES cells are not
   available through other means.      RPSCs are ES-like cells, and
25 are thus amenable to genetic manipulation.      To date, no ES
   cells are available for a wide variety of animals.      As a
   result, for these animals, it is currently practically
   impossible to create genetically modified animals having
   targeted mutations.    The ES-cell like RPSCs can be
30 manipulated to introduce desired targeted genetic
   modifications.   The resulting engineered RPSCs can then be

                               -125
   used to generate a cloned animal with the desired genetic
   modifications in its germ line, using methods described for
   ES cells in mouse.  See Capecchi and Thomas, U.S. Patent
   5,487,992, 5,627,059, 5,631,153, and 6,204,061.   Genetic
 5 engineering in animals has potentially great applications in
   a variety of animals, especially farm animals.
        The somatic cell reprogramming methods of the present
   invention provides at least two methods for delivering
   optimized farm animals.  In the first, somatic cell
10 reprogramming can be used to capture the best available
   phenotype for a farm animal stock.  The current technologies
   used to deliver optimized farm animals are based on
   selective breeding, and expansion from preferred breeding
   stocks.  Animals that have been selected on the basis of
15 superior characteristics, including, for example, meat
   content, egg production (in the case of poultry),  feed
   conversion ratio, are used to breed large numbers of animals
   that are in turn used in the human food supply.   This
   traditional process has profound inherent inefficiencies.
20 The phenotype observed in an individual animal is often only
   partially transmitted in the progeny of that animal.
   Therefore, traditional breeding schemes are inefficient in
   capturing the very best phenotype in all of the progeny
   animals.  In contrast, the reprogramming methods of the
25 present invention provides a controlled and efficient way to
   achieve the same goal, by generating RPSCs from somatic
   cells of an animal with the desired characteristics.    The
   RPSCs generated may be used immediately to generate cloned
   animals derived from the RPSCs.  Known methods for
30 generating mice from ES cells can be used for this

                               -126
   procedure.  Alternatively, the RPSCs generated may be
   cryopreserved and thawed in response to a grower's needs.
        In the second method, somatic cells from an animal with
   the desired characteristics are reprogrammed to produce
 5 RPSCs.  The RPSCs are further genetically engineered to
   introduce desired genetic modification(s),   before being
   placed into a recipient embryo to produce desired progeny.
        The reprogramming methods can also be used to rescue
   endangered species.  Somatic cell reprogramming provides an
10 efficient method to generate RPSCs from somatic cells of an
   endangered animal.  The resulting RPSCs can be used
   immediately to expand the numbers of the endangered animal.
   Alternatively, the RPSCs can be cryopreserved to generate a
   RPSC stock for the endangered species, as a safeguard
15 measure against extinction of the endangered species.
        The subject invention will be more particularly
   described with reference to the following non-limiting
20 examples. All patents, patent applications and references
   cited herein are incorporated in their entirety by
   reference.  In addition, the teachings of U.S. Provisional
   Application No. 60/525,612, filed November 26,   2003, U.S.
   Provisional Application No. 60/530,042, filed December 15,
25 2003, U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/922,121,
   filed April 7, 2007, and U.S. Patent Application No.
   10/997,146, filed November 24,   2004, are incorporated herein
   by reference.
30

                                 -127
                               EXAMPLES
   EXAMPLE 1
   METHODS
 5 Cell culture, MEF isolation and viral infections
   ES and iPS cells were cultivated on irradiated MEFs in DME
   containing 15% fetal calf serum, Leukemia Inhibiting Factor
   (LIF), penicillin/streptomycin, L-glutamine, and non
   essential amino acids. All cells were depleted of feeder
10 cells for two passages on 0.2% gelatin before RNA, DNA or
   protein isolation. Transgenic MEFs were isolated and
   selected in 2pg/ml puromycin (Sigma) from E13.5 chimeric
   embryos following blastocyst injection of Oct4-inducible KH2
   ES cells  (Hochedlinger et al.,    Cell 121(3):465  (2005))  which
15 had been previously targeted with either Oct4-IRES-GfpNeo or
   Nanog-neo constructs   (Mitsui et al.,   Cell l13(5) :631
   (2003)).  2x105 MEFs at passage 3-4 were infected overnight
   with pooled viral supernatant generated by transfection of
   HEK293T cells   (Fugene, Roche) with the Moloney-based
20 retroviral vector pLIB   (Clontech) containing the cDNAs of
   Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc together with the packaging
   plasmid pCL-Eco (Naviaux et al.,     J Virol  70(8):5701  (1996)).
   Southern blot, methylation and chromatin analysis
25 To assess the levels of DNA methylation, genomic DNA was
   digested with HpaII, and hybridized to pMR150 as a probe for
   the minor satellite repeats    (Chapman et   al., Nature 284
   (1984)), or with an IAP-probe    (Walsh et al.,   Nat Genet
   20(2):116  (1998)). Bisulfite treatment was performed with
30 the Qiagen EpiTect Kit. For the methylation status of Oct4
   and Nanog promoters bisulfite sequencing analysis was

                                 -128
   performed as described previously (Blelloch et al.,    Stem
   Cells 24(9):2007   (2006)). 10-20 clones of each sample were
   sequenced in both directions. For imprinted genes, a COBRA
   assay was performed. PCR primers and conditions were as
 5 described previously   (Lucifero et al.,  Genomics 79(4):530
   (2002)). PCR products were gel purified, digested with BstUI
   or HpyCH4 IV and resolved on a 2% agarose gel. The status of
   bivalent domains was determined by chromatin
   immunopreciptation followed by quantitative PCR analysis as
10 described before   (Boyer et al.,  Nature 441:349 (2006)).
   Expression analysis
   50 ng of total RNA isolated using TRIzol reagent
   (Invitrogen) was reverse transcribed and quantified using
15 QuantTtect SYBR green RT-PCR Kit    (Qiagen) on a 7000 ABI
   detection system. Western blot and immunofluorescence
   analysis was performed as described (Hochedlinger et al.,
   Cell 121(3):465   (2005); Wernig et al.,  J. Neurosci
   24(22):5258  (2004)).  Primary antibodies included Oct4
20 (monoclonal mouse, Santa Cruz),    Nanog (polyclonal rabbit,
   Bethyl), actin (monoclonal mouse, Abcam),    SSEA1 (monoclonal
   mouse, Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank). Appropriately
   labeled secondary antibodies were purchased from Jackson
   Immunoresearch. Microarray targets from 2pg total RNA were
25 synthesized and labeled using the Low RNA Input Linear Amp
   Kit (Agilent) and hybridized to Agilent whole mouse genome
   oligo arrays  (G4122F). Arrays were scanned on an Agilent
   G2565B scanner and signal intensities were calculated in
   Agilent FE software. Datasets were normalized using a R
30 script and clustered as previously described (Brambrink et

                                 -129
   al.,  Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103(4):933  (2006)). Microarray
   datasets were submitted to the ArrayExpress database.
   RESULTS
 5 Oct4-induced fibroblasts are more susceptible to
   reprogramming than uninduced fibroblasts as demonstrated by
   nuclear transfer experiment
   A.   Generation of transgenic mouse carrying an inducible
   Oct4 transgene
10 An inducible Oct4 allele was constructed as follows: first,
   two integration vectors are constructed.      The first
   integration vector, inducible Oct4 integration vector,
   contains an Oct4 gene driven by a tetracycline-inducible
   promoter (Tet-Op).   The Tet-Op-Oct4 cassette is flanked by a
15 splice-acceptor double poly-A signal   (SA-dpA) at its 5' end
   and a SV40 polyA tail   (SV40-pA) at its 3'   end.  The second
   integration vector, tetracycline activator integration
   vector, contains a mutant form of tetracycline activator,
   M2-rtTA, which is more responsive to doxycycline      (Dox)
20 induction than the wild type activator.      (Urlinger et al.,
   Proc Natl Acad Sci USA   97(14):7963 (2000)).
         The two integration vectors are introduced into V6.5 ES
   cells:  the inducible Oct4 integration vector and the
   tetracycline activator integration vector are introduced
25 into the Collagen locus and the Rosa26 locus respectively
   via site-specific integration, as shown in Fig. 1.       The
   resulting ES cells are used to make Oct4-inducible mice by
   tetraploid complementation.
30

                                -130
   B.   Expression of the inducible Oct4 transgene
   Fibroblasts derived from tail biopsies of the Oct4-inducible
   mice were cultured.   A fraction of the cultured fibroblasts
   were induced with doxycycline for 3 days   (at 2
 5 microgram/ml),  and Oct4 expression was detected by Northern
   blot and Western blot analysis.    The Oct4 expression level
   in fibroblasts treated with doxycycline is comparable to the
   Oct4 expression level in ES cells, and undetectable in
   fibroblasts not treated with doxycycline.    The expression
10 results demonstrate that the inducible Oct4 transgene is
   expressed as planned.
   C.   Nuclear transfer experiment
   Nuclear transfer was performed on fibroblasts derived from
15 tail biopsies of mice that carry the inducible Oct4
   transgene.   Dox induction was for 24 hours prior to nuclear
   transfer.   Cloned embryos were then activated and cultured
   to the blastocyst stage to derive ES cells as described
   previously (Hochedlinger and Jaenisch, Nature 415:1035
20  (2002)). On average, blastocyst  formation and ES cell
   derivation (as measured as a fraction of eggs with
   pronucleus formation) is more efficient from Oct4-induced
   fibroblast than from uninduced fibroblasts.    This result
   demonstrated that induced Oct4 expression in somatic cells
25 such as fibroblasts make these cells more susceptible to
   reprogramming.
   Selection of ES-like Cells by Stringent Criteria
   using homologous recombination in ES cells, we generated
30 mouse embryonic fibroblasts   (MEFs) that carried a neomycin
   resistance marker inserted into either the endogenous Oct4

                                 -131
   (Oct4-neo) or Nanog locus   (Nanog-neo) (Fig. 2A).  These
   cultures were sensitive to G418,    indicating that the Oct4
   and Nanog loci were, as expected, silenced in somatic cells.
   Five days after infection with Oct4-, Sox2-, c-Myc- and
 5 Klf4- expressing retroviral vectors the cells were passaged,
   and G418 was added to the cultures to select for drug
   resistant cells. Resistant colonies appeared in both the
   Nanog-neo and the Oct4-neo cultures, though with a very
   different efficiency:  the number of drug resistant colonies
10 in the Nanog-neo cultures was 35 fold higher than in the
   Oct4-neo cultures  (Fig. 2B).   When the colonies were stained
   for alkaline phosphatase   (AP) or SSEA1, a significantly
   higher fraction of the Oct4-neo colonies was positive and
   showed an ES cell like morphology. This suggests that
15 although the Nanog locus was easier to activate, a higher
   fraction of the drug resistant colonies in Oct4-neo cultures
   were reprogrammed to a pluripotent state. Consistent with
   this notion, out of 12 randomly picked Oct4-neo colonies,
   ten continued to proliferate and maintain an ES-like
20 phenotype, and three of these displayed strong AP activity
   and SSEAl expression. In contrast, all nine continuously
   proliferating Nanog-neo colonies had a flat or small and
   round-shaped appearance, and the rare ES cell-resembling
   colonies were only partially labeled with SSEA1 antibodies.
25 However, after careful morphological selection of colonies
   from both selection strategies based on criteria known in
   the art to be characteristic of ES cells, we were able to
   propagate ES-like clones   (designated as iPS cells for
   "induced pluripotent cells") which displayed homogenous
30 Nanog, SSEA1 and AP expression and formed undifferentiated

                                -132
   colonies when seeded at clonal density on gelatin-coated
   dishes.
   Characterization of Gene Expression and DNA Methylation in
 5 iPS Cells
   To characterize the reprogrammed cells on a molecular level,
   we used quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) to measure expression
   of ES cell and fibroblast-specific genes. Oct4-neo-selected
   iPS cells expressed endogenous Nanog and Oct4 at similar
10 levels as ES cells, whereas MEFs did not express either
   gene. Using specific primers to distinguish endogenous from
   viral Sox2 transcripts showed that the vast majority of Sox2
   transcripts originated from the endogenous locus. In
   contrast, HoxA9 and Zfpm2 were highly expressed in MEFs but
15 at very low levels in iPS or ES cells. Western analysis
   showed similar Nanog and Oct4 protein levels in iPS and ES
   cells. Finally, we used microarray technology to compare
   gene expression patterns on a global level. The iPS cells
   clustered with ES cells in contrast to wild type or donor
20 MEFs.
         To investigate the DNA methylation level of Oct4 and
   Nanog promoters, we performed bisulfite sequencing and COBRA
   analysis with DNA isolated from ES cells, iPS cells and
   MEFs. Both loci were demethylated in ES and iPS cells and
25 fully methylated in MEFs. To assess whether the maintenance
   of genomic imprinting was compromised, we assessed the
   methylation status of four imprinted genes H29, Pegl, Peg3
   and Snrpn. Bands corresponding to an unmethylated and
   methylated allele were detected for each gene in MEFs, iPS
30 cells and tail tip fibroblasts.   Incontrast, EG cells, which
   have erased all imprints  (Labosky et al., Development

                                 -133
   120(11):3197  (1994)), were unmethylated. Our results
   indicate that the epigenetic state of the Oct4 and Nanog
   genes was reprogrammed from a transcriptionally repressed
    (somatic) state to an active   (embryonic) state and that the
 5 pattern of somatic imprinting was maintained in iPS cells.
         Recently, downstream target genes of Oct4, Nanog and
   Sox2 have been defined in ES cells by genome wide location
   analyses  (Boyer et al.,  Nat Genet 38(4):431 (2006)). These
   targets include many important developmental regulators, a
10 proportion of which are also bound and repressed by the PcG
   complexes PRCl and PRC2   (Lee et al.,  Cell 125(2):301 (2006);
   Boyer et al.,  Nature 441(7091):349 (2006)). Notably, the
   chromatin at many of these non-expressed target genes adopt
   a bivalent conformation in ES cells, carrying both the
15 "active" histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methylation mark and the
   "repressive" histone H3 lysine 27    (H3K27) methylation mark
    (Bernstein et al., Cell 125(2):   315 (2006); Azuara et al.,
   Nat Cell Biol 8(5) :532  (2006)). In differentiated cells,
   those genes tend to instead carry either H3K4 or H3K27
20 methylation marks depending on their expression state.
         We used chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and real
   time PCR to quantify H3K4 and H3K27 methylation for a set of
   genes reported to be bivalent in pluripotent ES cells
    (Bernstein et al., Cell 125(2):   315 (2006)). In the MEFs,
25 the expressed genes Zfpm2 and HoxA9 carry strong H3K4
   methylation, but weaker or no H3K27 methylation, whereas
   Nkx2.2, Soxl, Lbxlh, Pax5 and Evxl predominantly carry H3K27
   methylation. When analyzing Oct4-neo iPS cells, however, we
   found at each of these genes a bivalent conformation with
30 both histone modifications like in normal ES cells
   (Bernstein et al.,  Cell 125(2): 315   (2006)). Identical

                                 -134
   results were obtained in several iPS clones selected from
   Oct4-neo and Nanog-neo fibroblasts.
   iPS Cells are Resistant to Global Demethylation
 5 Tolerance of genomic demethylation is a unique property of
   ES cells as somatic cells undergo rapid apoptosis upon loss
   of the methyltransferase. We investigated whether iPS cells
   would be resistant to global demethylation after Dnmtl
   inhibition and would be able to re-establish global
10 methylation patterns after restoration of Dnmtl activity. To
   this end, we utilized a conditional lentiviral vector
   containing a Dnmtl targeting shRNA and a GFP reporter gene
   (Ventura et al.,  Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101(28):10380
   (2004)). Infected iPS cells were plated at low density and
15 GFP-positive colonies were picked and expanded. Southern
   analysis using HpalI  digested genomic DNA showed that global
   demethylation of infected iPS cells was similar to Dnmtl-/
   ES in contrast to uninfected iPS cells or MEFs, which
   displayed normal methylation levels.
20      Morphologically, the GFP-positive cells were
   indistinguishable from the parental line or from uninfected
   sister subclones indicating that iPS cells tolerate global
   DNA demethylation. In a second step, the Dnmtl shRNA was
   excised through Cre-mediated recombination and normal DNA
25 methylation levels were restored as has been reported
   previously for ES cells   (Holm et al.,  Cancer Cell 8(4):275
   (2005)). These observations show the functional reactivation
   of the de novo methyltransferases Dnmt3a/b in iPS cells
   (Okano et al.,  Cell 99:247   (1999)). As expected, the
30 imprinted genes Snrpn and Peg3 were unmethylated and
   resistant to remethylation.

                                -135
   Retroviral Vectors are Silenced by de novo Methylation in
   iPS Cells
   Southern analysis indicated that the Oct4-neo iPS clone 18
 5 carried 4-6 copies of the Oct4, c-Myc and Klf4 and only 1
   copy of Sox2 retroviral vectors. Because these four factors
   were under the control of the constitutively expressed
   retroviral LTR, it was unclear in a prior study why iPS
   cells could be induced to differentiate (Takahashi and
10 Yamanaka, Cell 126  (4):663 (2006)). To address this
   question, we designed primers specific for the 4 viral
   encoded factor transcripts and compared expression levels by
   qRT-PCR in MEFs 2 days after infection, in iPS cells, in
   embryoid bodies (EB) derived from iPS cells and in
15 demethylated and remethylated iPS cells. Although the MEFs
   represented a heterogenous population composed of uninfected
   and infected cells, viral dependent Oct4, Sox2, c-Myc and
   Klf4 RNA levels were 5-fold lower in iPS cells than in the
   infected MEFs, suggesting silencing of the viral LTR by de
20 novo methylation upon reprogramming of the MEFs. Consistent
   with this conclusion is the fact that the total Sox2 and
   Oct4 RNA levels in iPS cells was similar to that in wild
   type  (wt) ES cells and that the Sox2 transcripts in iPS
   cells were mostly, if not exclusively, transcribed from the
25 endogenous gene. Upon differentiation to EBs, both viral and
   endogenous transcripts were downregulated. Importantly, all
   viral Sox2, Oct4 and Klf4 transcripts were about 2-fold
   upregulated in Dnmtl knock down iPS cells and again
   downregulated following restoration of Dnmtl activity. In
30 contrast, transcript levels of c-Myc were about 20-fold
   lower in iPS cells than in infected MEFs and did not change

                                -136
   upon differentiation of demethylation. Our results suggest
   that the retroviral vectors are subject to silencing by de
   novo methylation upon reprogramming of the fibroblasts.
 5 iPS Cells Have Similar Developmental Potential as ES Cells
   We determined the developmental potential of iPS cells by
   teratoma and chimera formation. Histological analysis of
   tumors formed 3 weeks following subcutaneous injection of
   iPS cells into SCID mice revealed that the cells had
10 differentiated into various cell types representing all
   three embryonic germ layers. Importantly, Oct4 and Nanog
   were only expressed in cells that appeared undifferentiated
   but were silenced in differentiated cells as in teratomas
   resulting from the injection of wt ES cells. To more
15 stringently assess the developmental potential of iPS cells,
   GFP-labeled subclones were injected into diploid (2N) or
   tetraploid  (4N) blastocysts. Injection of cells into 4N
   blastocysts is the most rigorous test for developmental
   potency, as the resulting embryo is composed only of the
20 injected donor cells  ("all ES embryo"). iPS cells derived
   from Oct4-neo and Nanog-neo MEFs could generate "all iPS
   embryos."  Injection of iPS cells into 2N blastocysts
   efficiently generated high-contribution prenatal and viable
   postnatal chimeras. These findings indicate that iPS cells
25 can contribute to all lineages of the embryo and thus have a
   similar developmental potential as ES cells.
        The results presented in Example 1 confirm that the
   four transcription factors Oct4,  Sox2, c-Myc and Klf4 can
30 induce epigenetic reprogramming of a somatic genome to an
   embryonic state though with low efficiency. These four

                                -137
   factors were initially identified based on their ability to
   induce expression of the Fbxl5 gene in somatic cells.   Fbx15
   is specifically expressed in mouse ES cells and early
   embryos but is dispensable for maintenance of pluripotency
 5 and mouse development  (Takahashi and Yamanaka, Cell
   126(4):663  (2006)).  In contrast to cells selected based on
   their expression of Fbx15, fibroblasts that had reactivated
   the endogenous Oct4  (Oct4-neo) or Nanog (Nanog-neo) loci
   grew feeder independently, expressed normal Oct4, Nanog and
10 Sox2 RNA and protein levels, were epigenetically identical
   to ES cells by a number of criteria and were able to
   generate viable chimeras. Transduction of the 4 factors
   generated 35-fold more drug resistant cells from Nanog-neo
   than from Oct4-neo fibroblasts but a higher fraction of
15 Oct4-selected cells exhibited all characteristics of
   pluripotent ES cells that were assessed.
        The data presented above suggests that the pluripotent
   state of iPS cells is induced by the virally-transduced
   factors but is largely maintained by the activity of the
20 endogenous pluripotency factors including Oct4, Nanog and
   Sox2 because the viral controlled transcripts, though
   expressed highly in MEFs, become mostly silenced in iPS
   cells. The total levels of Oct4, Nanog and Sox2 were similar
   in iPS and wt ES cells. Consistent with the conclusion that
25 the pluripotent state is maintained by the endogenous
   pluripotency genes is the fact that the Oct4 and the Nanog
   genes become hypomethylated in iPS as in ES, and that the
   bivalent histone modifications of developmental regulators
   was reestablished. Importantly, iPS cells were resistant to
30 global demethylation induced by inactivation of Dnmtl
   similar to ES cells and in contrast to somatic cells. Re-

                                      -138
   expression of Dnmtl in the hypomethylated ES cells resulted
   in global remethylation indicating that the iPS cells had
   also reactivated the de novo methyltransferases Dnmt3a/b.
   All these observations are consistent with the conclusion
 5 that the iPS cells have gained an epigenetic state that is
   similar to that of normal ES cells.
              Expression of the 4 factors proved to be a robust
   method to induce reprogramming of somatic cells to a
   pluripotent state. one object of the present invention is to
10 provide new ways to identify small molecules that reprogram
   cells without gene transfer of potentially harmful genetic
   material.
15 EXAMPLE 2
   METHODS
   Cell culture, MEF isolation and viral infections
   ES and iPS cells were cultivated on irradiated MEFs in DME
   containing 15%       fetal calf serum, Leukemia Inhibiting Factor
20 (LIF), penicillin/streptomycin, L-glutamine, beta
   mercaptoethanol and non-essential amino acids. All cells
   were depleted of feeder cells for two passages on 0.2%
   gelatin       before RNA, DNA or protein isolation. 2x10 5 MEFs at
   passage 3-4 were infected overnight with pooled viral
25 supernatant generated by transfection of HEK293T cells
   (Fugene, Roche) with the Moloney-based retroviral vector
   pLIB       (Clontech) containing the cDNAs of Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and
   c-Myc together with the packaging plasmid pCL-Eco (Naviaux
   et    al.,    J Virol 70:5701  (1996)).
30

                                -139
   Blastocyst injection
   Diploid or tetraploid blastocysts (94-98 hours post HCG
   injection) were placed in a drop of DMEM with 15%- FCS under
   mineral oil. A flat tip microinjection pipette with an
 5 internal diameter of 12-15 mm was used for ES cell
   injection. A controlled number of ES cells were injected
   into the blastocyst cavity. After injection, blastocysts
   were returned to KSOM media and placed at 37 0 C until
   transferred to recipient females.
10
   Recipient females and caesarean sections
   Ten to fifteen injected blastocysts were transferred to each
   uterine horn of 2.5 days postcoitum pseudopregnant BGD2F1
   females. To recover full-term ES or chimeric pups, recipient
15 mothers were sacrifized at 19.5 days postcoitum. Surviving
   pups were fostered to lactating BALB/c mothers.
   Viral integrations
   Genomic DNA was digested with Spel overnight, followed by
20 electrophoresis and transfer. The blots were hybridized to
   the respective radioactively labeled cDNAs.
   Immunohistochemistry
   Cells were fixed in 415 paraformaldehyde for 10 min at room
25 temperature, washed 3 times with PBS and blocked for 15 min
   with 5% FBS in PBS containing 0.1% Triton. After incubation
   with primary antibodies against Sox2 (monoclonal mouse, R&D
   Systems), Oct4 (monoclonal mouse, Santa Cruz), c-myc
   (polyclonal rabbit, Upstate), Nanog (polyclonal rabbit,
30 Bethyl) and SSEA1 (monoclonal mouse, Developmental Studies
   Hybridoma Bank) for 1 hour cells were washed 3 times with

                               -140
   PBS and incubated with fluorophore-labeled apropriate
   secondary antibodies purchased from Jackson Immunoresearch.
   Specimen were analyzed on an Olympus Fluorescence microscope
   and images were acquired with a Zeiss Axiocam camera.
 5
   RESULTS
   Reprogramming of Somatic Cells Without Genetic or Chemical
   Selection
   As described above, in vitro reprogramming of somatic cells
10 into a pluripotent ES cell-like state has been achieved
   through retroviral transduction of Oct4, Sox2, c-myc and
   Klf4 into murine fibroblasts. In these experiments the rare
   "induced Pluripotent Stem" (iPS) cells were isolated by
   stringent selection for activation of a neomycin resistance
is gene inserted into the endogenous Oct4 or Nanog loci.
   Direct isolation of pluripotent cells from cultured somatic
   cells is of potential therapeutic interest but in order to
   translate such methods to non-murine, e.g.,  human, systems
   it would be desirable to develop alternatives to the
20 requirement for transgenic donors used in the iPS isolation
   protocol described above. Here we demonstrate for the first
   time that reprogrammed pluripotent cells can be isolated
   from genetically unmodified somatic donor cells solely based
   upon morphological criteria.   Thus, for example, genetically
25 unmodified somatic donor cells can be obtained from a mouse,
   a rat, a rabbit, a farm animal, a companion animal, a
   primate or a human, and reprogrammed pluripotent cells can
   be derived from these donor cells.
        Somatic cell nuclear transfer and cell fusion with
30 embryonic stem (ES) cells have been well-established
   approaches to achieve reprogramming of somatic nuclei into a

                                -141
   pluripotent state. Direct in vitro isolation of pluripotent
   ES-like cells from cultured somatic cells was achieved
   recently by transduction of the four transcription factors
   Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-myc   (below referred to as "factors")
 5 into genetically modified fibroblasts. The selection for the
   rare reprogrammed induced Pluripotent Stem (iPS) cells was
   based upon the reactivation of the Fbx15   (Takahashi and
   Yamanaka, Cell 126:663  (2006)) or the Oct4 or Nanog genes,
   all of which carried a drug resistance marker inserted into
10 the respective endogenous loci by homologous recombination
   or a transgene containing the Nanog promoter. While iPS cell
   isolation based upon Fbx15 activation yielded cells that
   were pluripotent, they differed from ES cells at the
   molecular level and were unable to generate live chimeras.
15 In these experiments selection was initiated at 3 days after
   viral transduction. In contrast, selection for Oct4 or Nanog
   activation produced pluripotent iPS cells that were
   epigenetically and biologically indistinguishable from
   normal ES cells. Reprogramming to pluripotency was, however,
20 a slow and gradual process involving the sequential
   activation of the ES cell markers alkaline phosphatase (AP),
   SSEAl and Nanog over a period of 2-4 weeks after factor
   transduction. Thus, when G418 was added to cultures of Oct4
   neo or Nanog-neo fibroblasts at 3 days after factor
25 transduction, no drug resistant colonies were formed,
   whereas addition of drug at 1 week generated a few and
   addition at 2 weeks significantly more drug resistant and
   reprogrammed colonies. The inverse relationship between the
   time of drug selection after factor transduction and the
30 number of drug resistant iPS cells is consistent with the
   notion that the process of reprogramming involves multiple

                               -142
   stochastic events that convert the epigenetic state of a
   somatic to that of a pluripotent cell.
        In the present Example we show that pluripotent iPS
   cells can be derived from normal, genetically unmodified
 5 donor cells. In the first set of experiments we used a GFP
   marker inserted into the Oct4 locus to monitor the
   reprogramming process. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts  (MEFs)
   carrying an IRES-EGFP cassette in the Oct4 locus were
   transduced with the four factors Oct4, Sox2, c-myc and Klf4
10 by retrovirus-mediated gene transfer as described before.
   Three days after infection the fibroblasts became
   morphologically more diverse than uninfected control cells
   and foci of increased growth appeared. On day 6, small
   tightly packed and sharp-edged colonies developed resembling
15 ES cell colonies. During the following days these colonies
   continued to grow into large and more heterogeneous cell
   aggregates with some sectors resembling ES cell-like growth
   while more small and tight colonies continued to appear.
        Eight of these large colonies were picked on day 11 and
20 ten additional colonies were picked on day 16 based solely
   upon their morphology. When examined under the fluorescence
   microscope no GFP expression was detectable at day 11 and
   only one of the ten colonies picked on day 16 showed weak
   GFP expression. One of the eight colonies picked on day 11
25 and four of the ten colonies picked on day 16 gave rise to
   homogenous, ES-like cell lines. All five lines initiated
   Oct4-EGFP expression within 1-3 passages (Table 1) and
   displayed homogenous AP activity as well as SSEA1 and Nanog
   expression as would be expected for fully reprogrammed iPS
30 cells.

                                -143
        Of the remaining colonies that had been picked
   initially based on morphological criteria, ten gave rise to
   heterogeneous cultures containing mainly fibroblast-like
   cells interspersed with a few ES-like colonies (Table 1).  We
 5 investigated whether these heterogeneous cultures would
   yield additional iPS cell lines upon further passaging. For
   this we picked three ES-like colonies from each of five
   mixed cultures derived from the initial outgrowths and
   successfully established five additional iPS cell lines
10 within 2-3 passages  (Tables I and 2). In order to test
   whether the observed heterogeneity was a result of partly
   incomplete reprogramming or a contamination of not
   reprogrammed fibroblasts, we FACS-sorted the GFP positive
   and negative cells from clone #5 and the heterogenous
15 subclone #5.2 and compared proviral integration patterns
   using southern blot analysis. The results indicated that the
   two cell populations are derived from the same parental cell
   indicating the requirement of further epigentic events.
   From the picked subclones that did not generate secondary
20 iPS lines, three subclones  (6.1, 6.2 and 6.3; see Table 1
   and 2) displayed an altered morphology (small cells, tightly
   grown colonies) but remained Oct4-GFP negative over multiple
   passages and displayed no staining for AP, SSEA1 or Nanog,
   suggesting that these cells were not pluripotent. The
25 occurrence of ES marker negative cells was rare and these
   cells displayed subtle morphological differences from ES or
   true iPS cells such as the shape of colony boundaries.
   Because the cells were infected with all four retroviruses,
   it is possible that the four factors may not have been
30 expressed at the right levels, giving rise to transformed
   rather than pluripotent cells. For example, high c-myc/Klf4

                               -144
   and insufficient Oct4/Sox2 expression may lead to rapidly
   growing non-iPS cells consistent with the notion that the
   role of Oct4 and Sox2 in the reprogramming process may be
   the suppression of the c-myc and Klf4 transformed phenotype
 5 (Yamanaka, Stem Cells 1:39-49  (2007)).
        All iPS cell lines tested showed GFP intensity
   comparable to the Oct4-GFP ES cells consistent with our
   previous observation that Oct4 protein levels were similar
   in different iPS cell lines  (Wernig, 2007). To analyze
10 whether the iPS cells isolated by morphological criteria
   remained phenotypically stable over time, GFP fluorescence
   was monitored after multiple passages. These results show
   that the iPS cells exhibited non-variable and robust Oct4
   GFP expression up to at least nine passages. These data
15 clearly demonstrate that stable iPS lines can be efficiently
   derived without relying on drug selection.
        We used the fraction of virus infected input cells and
   the number of ES cell-like colonies to estimate the
   efficiency of reprogramming. In a typical experiment about
20 100,000 cells were exposed to virus. Using staining for
   Sox2, Oct4 and c-myc as criterion we estimated about 10.2%%
   of the cells were infected with all four virus generating
   115 ES cell-like colonies. The efficiency for deriving iPS
   cells from the number of picked colonies was 44%. Thus, the
25 overall efficiency of reprogramming was extrapolated to be
   about 0.5%.
        Finally, we evaluated the developmental potency of non
   selected iPS cells by teratoma formation, and injections
   into diploid (2N) and tetraploid (4N) blastocysts  (Table 3)
30 (Eggan et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98:6209-6214 (2001)).
   Three weeks after subcutaneous injection into SCID mice,

                               -145
   lines 8.1 and 14 developed tumors which contained tissue
   types from all three germ layers determined by histological
   analysis. Following injection into 2N blastocysts, we
   generated live postnatal animals with high coat color
 5 chimerism. Importantly, when injected into 4N blastocysts,
   which is the most stringent test for developmental potency,
   live E14.5 embryos could be recovered (Table 4). These data
   demonstrate that screening for iPS cells based upon
   morphological criteria rather than selection for drug
10 resistance can generate pluripotent iPS cells that display a
   similar biological potency as ES cells.
   Derivation of iPS Cells from Genetically Unmodified Donor
15 Cells
   In the experiments described above, the Oct4-GFP marker was
   used to monitor the reprogramming process but not to screen
   for reprogrammed iPS cells. To assess whether iPS cells can
   be derived from genetically unmodified donor cells, we
20 generated wild type MEFs from Balb/c and 129SvJae/C57Bl6(F1)
   mice and adult  tailtip fibroblasts from 129SvJae/C57B16
   (Fl) and C57B16/DBA (Fl) 2-3 month old mice. The cells were
   infected with retroviruses encoding the four factors and
   large colonies were picked at day 16 or later as described
25 above. As in the previous experiments ES-like colonies
   became visible within one passage after picking of the
   primary colonies. Upon continued passaging or through
   subcloning we readily established homogenous cell lines with
   ES cell morphology and growth properties.
30      Assuming that reprogrammed cells outgrow the donor
   fibroblasts, we attempted to generate iPS cells by passaging

                               -146
   the entire plate instead of picking colonies following
   morphological criteria. Many small colonies perfectly
   resembling ES cell colonies appeared within several days
   after the first passage of infected cell populations and 5
 5 out 6 picked colonies grew into stable iPS lines (Table 3).
   After 2-3 passages using either direct picking or passaging
   the whole plate followed by picking of individual colonies
   we established one or more iPS lines from each background
   (Table 3).  All genetically unmodified iPS lines expressed
10 AP, SSEA1 and Nanog. In addition we generated chimeric
   embryos from Balb/c and 129/B6 MEF derived iPS lines,
   demonstrating that iPS cells from genetically unmodified
   fibroblasts are pluripotent (Table 4). It should be noted,
   however, that passaging of the factor transduced cell
15 populations, while representing a simplified isolation
   protocol, cannot exclude that individual iPS cell lines may
   have been derived from the same reprogrammed parental cell.
        Our results suggest that in vitro reprogramming of
   fibroblasts occurs frequently enough be detected in cultures
20 of non-transgenic donor cells and is stable without
   selective pressure to express Oct4 or Nanog. Thus, the four
   factor-induced reprogramming can be applied to wild type
   cells.  Without being bound by any theory, it appears that
   ectopic expression of Oct4, Sox2, c-myc and Klf4 initiates a
25 gradual reprogramming process in multiple infected cells
   that ultimately leads to pluripotency over a time period of
   several weeks. Using Oct4 GFP MEFs to monitor reactivation
   of the endogenous Oct4 locus we found that all colonies but
   one were GFP-negative at the time of picking (see Table 2)
30 and became GFP positive only after several passages. This
   suggests that reprogramming is a slow process involving the

                                -147
   sequential activation of ES cell markers such as AP, SSEAI
   and Nanog with Oct4 activation representing one of the last
   epigenetic events in the process. Also, these observations
   are consistent with our previous finding that the numbers of
 S reprogrammed colonies were lower when drug selection for
   Oct4 activation was applied early after viral transduction,
   but was significantly higher when drug selection was
   initiated later. Finally, the slow reprogramming process
   induced by factor transduction may explain why the drug
10 selection for Fbx15 activation as early as 3 days after
   infection as used in the initial iPS isolation protocol
   yielded only cells that had undergone incomplete epigenetic
   reprogramming. Our results predict that selection for Fbx15
   activation at later times would generate iPS cells that are
15 similar to iPS cells selected for Oct4 activation or
   isolated based on morphological criteria.
   EXAMPLE 3
   METHODS
20 Cell culture and viral infections.
   ES and established iPS cells were cultured on irradiated
   MEFs in DME containing 15% FCS,    leukemia inhibiting factor
   (LIF), penicillin/streptomycin, L-glutamine, beta
   mercaptoethanol and nonessential amino acids.     MEFs used to
25 derive primary iPS lines by infections with inducible
   lentiviruses were harvested at 13.5dpc from F1 matings
   between ROSA26-M2rtTA mice   (Beard et al.,  2006) and Nanog
   GFP mice  (Brambrink et al.,  2008).  Mouse C/EBPa cDNA was
   cloned into EcoRI cloning site of pLib, MSCV-Neo and pMig
30 retroviral vectors. pMXs vectors encoding ES pluripotency
   genes were previously described    (Takahashi and Yamanaka,

                                  -148
   2006). Lentiviral preparation and infection with
   Doxycycline-inducible lentiviruses encoding Oct4, Klf4, c
   Myc and Sox2 cDNA driven by the TetO/CMV promoter were
   previously described (Brambrink, 2008).     Retrovirus stocks
 5 were prepared by transient transfection of Phoenix-Eco cells
   using Fugene    (Roche), and supernatants were harvested 48 hr
   later. For infection, purified B cell subsets were
   resuspended in IMDM with 15%     FCS as well as IL-4,  IL-7, Flt
   3L,  SCF (long/ml each, Peprotech),    anti-CD40  (0.lpg/ml, ED
10 Biosciences),    LPS (10ng/ml, Sigma-Aldrich) and Dox (4pg/ml).
   Then, 2 ml aliquots were plated onto a 24-well plate
   precoated with retronectin (Takara) followed by 2 ml of
   retrovirus supernatant to which polybrene      (Sigma) was added
   (8 pg/ml).   The plates were incubated at 37 0 C for 2 hours,
15 and afterward 1 ml of viral supernatant was replaced with B
   cells resuspended in the cytokine-conditioned media
   described above. Plates were centrifuged for 90 min at
   900RPM and then incubated 24 hours at 37 0 C 5%CO 2 .   Infected
   cells were then transferred onto OP9 bone marrow stromal
20 cells line (ATCC) in fresh cytokine and Dox-supplemented
   media. After 14 days on Dox, colonies were picked and
   cultured on MEF feeder cells in ES media      (without
   hematopoietic cytokines or Dox) and in the presence of
   puromycin   (2 pg/ml) to eliminate any remaining OP9 cells.
25
   V(D)J rearrangement analysis.
   IgH, IgK and IgA rearrangements were amplified by PCR using
   degenerate primer sets as previously described (Chang et
   al.,  1992;  Cobaleda et al.,  2007a;  Schlissel et al.,  1991)
30 (Table 2).   To characterize individual V-DJ rearrangements,
   the PCR fragments were cloned in TOPO vector, and at least 5

                                   -149
   clones corresponding to the same PCR fragment were
   sequenced. Obtained sequences were analyzed with DNAPLOT
   search engine    (found at www.dnaplot.de).    V-DJ and D-J
   rearrangements at the Igh locus were detected by Southern
 5 blot analysis on genomic DNA of the indicated iPS lines
   digested with EcoRI and using a 3'JH4 probe (1.6-kb HindIII
   EcoRI fragment of plasmid JH4.3)      (Alt et al.,  1981).  VX-JK
   rearrangements at the Igk locus were determined by Southern
   blot analysis of BamHI-digested genomic DNA using a 3'JKS
10 probe  (1-kb XbaI-EcoRV fragment of plasmid pBS-JxMAR)       (Lewis
   et al.,  1982).
   DNA methylation and histone marks analysis.
   For the methylation status of Oct4 and Nanog promoters,
15 bisulphite sequencing analysis was performed as described
   previously   (Wernig et al.,   2007).  A total of 10-20 clones of
   each sample was sequenced in both directions. The status of
   H3K4 and H3K27 bivalent domains was determined by chromatin
   immunopercipitation followed by quantitative PCR analysis,
20 as previously described     (Bernstein et al.,   2006).
   Blastocyst injections and teratoma formation.
   Diploid or tetraploid blastocysts       (94-98 h after HCG
   injection) were placed in a drop of DMEM with 15,% FCS under
25 mineral oil. A flat-tip microinjection pipette with an
   internal diameter of 12-15 mm was used for iPS cell
   injection (using a Piezo micromanipulator 34).       A controlled
   number of cells was injected into the blastocyst cavity.
   After injection, blastocysts were returned to KSOM media and
30 placed at 37 0 C until transferred to recipient females. Ten
   to fifteen injected blastocysts were transferred to each

                                 -150
   uterine horn of 2.5 days post coitum pseudo-pregnant B6D2F1
   females. To recover full-term pups, recipient mothers were
   killed at 19.5 days post coitum. Surviving pups were
   fostered to lactating BALB/c mothers. For teratoma
 5 generation,   2*10' cells were injected subcutaneously into
   both flanks of recipient SCID mice, and tumors were
   harvested for sectioning 3-6 weeks after initial injection.
   Immunofluorescence staining.
10 Cells were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for 20 minutes at
   250C, washed 3 times with PBS and blocked for 15 min with 5%
   FBS in PBS containing 0.1% Triton-X. After incubation with
   primary antibodies against Nanog polyclonall rabbit, Bethyl)
   and SSEAl   (monoclonal mouse, Developmental Studies Hybridoma
15 Bank) for I h in 1%   FBS in PBS containing 0.1% Triton-X,
   cells were washed 3 times with PBS and incubated with
   fluorophore-labeled appropriate secondary antibodies
   purchased from Jackson Immunoresearch. Specimens were
   analyzed on an Olympus Fluorescence microscope and images
20 were acquired with a Zeiss Axiocam camera.
   Quantitative RT-PCR.
   Bone marrow B cells were grown on OP9 cells in media
   supplemented with IL-7, SCF, Flt3, while spleen B cells were
25 grown with IL-4, anti-CD40 and LPS. OP9 cells were depleted
   by pre-plating on gelatin-coated plates before the cells
   were harvested for mRNA preparation. Puromycin was added to
   fibroblast (2pg/ml) and B cell     (0.3pg/ml) cultures to
   eliminate non-transgenic cells. Total RNA was isolated using
30 Rneasy Kit   (Qiagen). Three micrograms of   total RNA was
   treated with DNase I to remove potential contamination of

                                -151
   genomic DNA using a DNA Free RNA kit (Zymo Research, Orange,
   CA). One microgram of DNase I-treated RNA was reverse
   transcribed using a First Strand Synthesis kit     (Invitrogen)
   and ultimately resuspended in 100 ul of water. Quantitative
 5 PCR analysis was performed in triplicate using 1/50 of the
   reverse transcription reaction in an ABI Prism 7000      (Applied
   Biosystems, Foster City, CA) with Platinum SYBR green qPCR
   SuperMix-UDG with ROX  (Invitrogen). Primers used for
   amplification were as follows: c-Myc: F, 5'
10 ACCTAACTCGAGGAGGAGCTGG-3'  (SEQ ID NO:  1) and R,   5'
   TCCACATAGCGTAAAAGGAGC-3'  (SEQ ID NO:  2); Klf4:  F, 5'
   ACACTGTCTTCCCACGAGGG-3'  (SEQ ID NO:  3) and R,  5'
   GGCATTAAAGCAGCGTATCCA-3'  (SEQ ID NO:  4); Sox2:  F, 5'
   CATTAACGGCACACTGCCC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 5) and R, 5'
15 GGCATTAAAGCAGCGTATCCA-3' (SEQ ID NO:   6); Oct4:  F, 5'
   AGCCTGGCCTGTCTGTCACTC-3'  (SEQ ID NO:  7) and R,  5'
   GGCATTAAAGCAGCGTATCCA-3' (SEQ ID NO:   8). To ensure equal
   loading of cDNA into RT reactions, GAPDH mRNA was amplified
   using the following primers:   F, 5'-TTCACCACCATGGAGAAGGC-3'
20 (SEQ ID NO: 9); and R,  5'-CCCTTTTGGCTCCACCCT-3'    (SEQ ID NO:
   10). Data were extracted from the linear range of
   amplification. All graphs of qRT-PCR data shown represent
   samples of RNA that were DNase treated, reverse transcribed,
   and amplified in parallel to avoid variation inherent in
25 these procedures. Gene expression analysis for ES markers
   was performed by PCR using previously published primers
   (Takahashi and Yamanaka, 2006).
   Flow cytometry analysis and cell sorting.
30 The following fluorescently conjugated antibodies      (PE, FITC,
   Cy-Chrome or APC labeled) were used for FACS analysis and

                                  -152
   cell sorting: anti-SSEA1    (RnD systems),   anti-IgK, anti
   Ighl,2,3, anti-CD19, anti-B220, anti-c-Kit, anti-CD25, anti
   sIgM, anti-sIgD (all obtained from BD-Biosciences). Cell
   sorting was performed by using FACS-Aria (ED-Biosciences),
 5 and consistently achieved cell sorting purity of >97%. For
   isolation of mature IgM+ IgD+ B cells from spleen and lymph
   nodes, cells were depleted of.Lin+ non-B cells by MACS
   sorting after staining with lineage markers antibodies
   (CD3E, CD4, CD8, CD11c, Grl,     c-Kit, Macl and Ter119) prior
10 to sorting.
   RESULTS
   Inducible expression of reprogramming factors in the B cell
   lineage
15       Initially work described herein sought to determine
   whether Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc transcription factors,
   which were shown to be sufficient to reprogram mouse and
   human fibroblast cultures (Meissner et al.,      2007; Okita et
   al.,  2007;  Takahashi et al.,   2007; Takahashi and Yamanaka,
20 2006;  Wernig et al.,  2007) and mouse liver- and stomach
   derived cell cultures    (Aoi et al.,  2008),  were capable of
   reprogramming cells of the B cell lineage. Because of the
   relatively low infectivity of mouse lymphocytes with
   viruses, we established a system that allowed inducible
25 transgenic expression of the four reprogramming factors in B
   cells.
         To this end, we have recently shown that doxycycline
   inducible   (Dox) lentiviral vectors encoding the Oct4, Sox2,
   c-Myc and Klf4 transcription factors are able to reprogram
30 mouse embryonic fibroblasts     (MEFs) into stable iPS cells
   that maintain their pluripotency after Dox withdrawal

                                  -153
   (Brambrink et al.,    2008). When injected into blastocysts
   these cells were capable of generating postnatal chimeras
   which contain clonal populations of somatic cells carrying
   the identical proviral copies that generated the       'primary"
 5 iPS cells   (Brambrink et al.,   2008).  We reasoned that B cells
   derived from these chimeras, when exposed to Dox under
   appropriate culture conditions, might activate the proviral
   copies that induced the primary iPS cells and thus might
   facilitate reprogramming and the generation of "secondary"
10 iPS cells   (Fig. 3).
         MEFs carrying a constitutively expressed reverse
   tetracycline trans-activator driven by the ROSA26 promoter
   (R26-M2rtTA) and a knock-in of GFP into the endogenous Nanog
   locus (Nanog-GFP) were infected with the Dox-inducible
15 lentiviral vectors encoding Oct4, Sox2, c-Myc and Klf4 genes
   (Brambrink et al.,    2008). Large macroscopic colonies
   appearing after 12 days of Dox treatment were picked and
   propagated without Dox to establish Nanog-GFP+ iPS lines,
   which expressed pluripotency markers alkaline phosphatase
20  (AP), SSEA1 antigen and Oct4. The MEF-derived primary iPS
   cells were injected into blastocysts to generate embryonic
   and adult chimeras. Pro-B    (B220+c-Kit+) and Pre-B cells
   (B220+CD25+)   (Cobaleda et al.,    2007a) were isolated from the
   bone marrow, and mature IgM+IgD+ B cells were purified from
25 the spleen of 8 week old adult chimeric mice and grown in
   media supplemented with hematopoietic cytokines and Dox for
   7 days. A functional puromycin resistance gene had been
   inserted into the ROSA26 locus as part of the targeting
   strategy of M2rtTA (Brambrink et al.,      2008) and allowed
30 elimination of host-derived non-transgenic B cells by
   puromycin selection    (0.3pg/ml).

                                -154
        Chimeras derived from MEF-iPS-#l cell line were chosen
   for further study, as donor B cells from chimeras induced
   high expression levels of the 4 factors in the presence of
   Dox. Adult tail tip fibroblasts derived from MEF-iPS #1 line
 5 also yielded Nanog-GFP+ iPS lines following addition of Dox,
   though the expression levels of the four factors following
   addition of Dox were lower than those observed in B cells
   derived from the same chimera.
10 Reprogramming of non-terminally differentiated B cells
        Initial attempts failed to reprogram bone marrow
   derived B cells and spleen B cells that had been cultured on
   irradiated feeder cells in ES media supplemented with LIF
   and Dox, as the cells died within five days in culture. We
15 reasoned that addition of cytokines might be necessary to
   allow for an initial proliferation of the B cells that would
   ensure a sufficient number of cell divisions necessary to
   initiate epigenetic reprogramming by expression of the four
   factors. Therefore, we optimized culture conditions that
20 would support immature and mature B cell growth as well as
   that of ES cells to ensure viability during the
   reprogramming process from B to iPS cells.
        Cells were grown on OP9 bone marrow stromal cells in
   media supplemented with LIF which is required for ES cell
25 growth, with IL-7, SCF and Flt-3L which support B cell
   development  (Milne et al., 2004),   and with IL-4, anti-CD40
   and LPS which are important for proliferation of mature B
   cells (Hayashi et al.,  2005).    In initial experiments we
   detected AP-positive colonies in cultures of sorted Pre- and
30 Pro-B cell subsets derived from 8 week old adult chimera
   bone marrow after 14 days of Dox treatment. Small flat

                                     -155
   colonies appeared 3 days after Dox induction that
   subsequently underwent robust expansion. Around day 11 after
   Dox induction smooth ES-like small colonies embedded within
   the granulated large colonies were observed which became
 5 Nanog-GFP+ at day 14. Colonies were picked 14 days after Dox
   induction from 3 independent experiments and grown on MEF
   feeders in ES media without Dox. Within 3 passages over 90%
   of the picked colonies grew into homogenous ES-like Nanog
   GFP+ iPS cells. In the following we will refer to these cell
10 lines as iB-iPS cells       (for iPS cells derived from "immature"
   non-fully differentiated B cells including Pre- and Pro-B
   cells)
         Genomic DNA harvested from established iB-iPS cell
   lines was analyzed by PCR for heavy and light chain
15 rearrangements. We used previously described degenerate
   primers that recognize the majority of rearrangements
   involving three major families of V segments of the heavy
   chain locus   (V1 Q52, VH7183-DJ,    VRGam3.8),   DH-JH heavy chain
   rearrangements, and IgK and IgX light chain rearrangements
20  (Chang et al.,   1992; Cobaleda et al.,      2007a) (Table 2).
   Representative cell lines reprogrammed from the B220+c-Kit+
   Pro-B cell subpopulation showed that some iPS lines carried
   DH-JH rearrangements    (lines    #1,2,7,9),  whereas others did
   not show evidence for any IgH rearrangements            (lines #3,4,6),
25 as would be expected for rearrangements in the donor B cell
   subset at the Pro-B cell stage of development. Cell lines
   established from the adult bone marrow-derived B220+CD25+
   Pre-B cells carried at least one VH-DJH rearrangement and an
   additional D-J     or V8 -DJH   rearrangement   (lines    #5,8), both
30 genetic rearrangements of the IgH locus typically observed
   in such B cell populations        (Jung et al.,    2006).  IgH

                                -156
   rearrangements in the iB-iPS were verified by Southern blot
   analysis.
         For subsequent analysis, we focused on cell lines that
   contained genetic evidence for IgH rearrangements, as only
 5 those can be definitively traced to cells committed to the B
   cell lineage.   All iB-iPS cell lines stained positive for
   the ES markers AP, SSEAl and Oct4, and all cell lines tested
    (# 5, 7, 8, 9) generated differentiated teratomas when
   injected into immunedeficient mice. Furthermore, we obtained
10 adult chimeras from several iB-iPS cell lines (Table 1).
   Representative Southern blots of tail DNA from an iB-iPS#8
   cell line-derived chimera showed a heavy chain rearrangement
   pattern identical to the donor iB-iPS cell line, thus
   confirming that the chimera was derived from the respective
is iB-iPS cell line and not from contaminating ES- or MEF
   derived iPS cells.   A chimera derived from iB-iPS line #9
   produced 100% germline transmission as demonstrated by the
   agouti coat color of all mice obtained. As expected,
   Southern blot analysis confirmed segregation of the
20 rearranged IgH allele found in the donor iB-iPS line in some
   of the mice. These results demonstrate that cells committed
   to the B cell lineage carrying DH-JX or VH-DJH
   rearrangements, although not fully differentiated, can be
   reprogrammed to a pluripotent ES-like state by the induction
25 of the 4 transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc.
   Reprogramming of terminally differentiated B cells
   We failed to generate any reprogrammed AP+ colonies from
   mature spleen IgM+IgD+ cells or bone marrow derived IgK+
30 cells in 5 independent experiments. This was puzzling given
   that IgM+IgD+ mature transgenic B cells could be maintained

                                -157
   in our culture conditions for up to 6 weeks and continued to
   express B cell markers.   It appeared possible that the
   transgenic B cells were able to proliferate in conditioned
   media with Dox for a relatively extended period due to
 5 induction of c-Myc, which is known to promote B cell growth
   and is a key player in B cell transformation (Zhu et al.,
   2005). We tested, therefore, the hypothesis that additional
   pluripotency factors might be needed to achieve
   reprogramming of mature B cells. Adult IgM+IgD+ spleen B
10 cells were infected with combinations of retroviruses
   encoding 20 different pluripotency factors that were
   originally generated to screen for fibroblast reprogramming
    (Takahashi and Yamanaka, 2006).  Yet, these experiments
   repeatedly yielded negative results.
15      As an alternative approach, we aimed to "sensitize" the
   B cells to respond to Dox-dependent 4-factor induction by
   altering their mature B cell identity. It has been shown
   that over-expression of the myeloid transcription factor
   CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-a    (C/EBPa) is able to
20 reprogram B cells into macrophage-like cells (Xie et al.,
   2004) by disrupting the function of Pax5, a transcription
   factor that is a master regulator of mature B cell
   development and immunological function (Cobaleda et al.,
   2007b).  In these experiments the C/EBPa transduced B cells
25 had been grown on bone marrow stromal cells in the presence
   of myeloid cytokines and had differentiated into functional
   macrophages  (Xie et al., 2004).  We tested, therefore,
   whether transduction with C/EBPa would facilitate
   reprogramming of mature B cells.
30      Adult spleen B cells derived from 10 week-old chimeras
   were transduced with a retrovirus encoding C/EBPa and/or the

                                -158
   IL7-Ra subunit and cultured on OP9 cells in the presence of
   Dox to induce the four factors Oct4, Sox2,  Klf4 and c-Myc.
   AP positive colonies appeared after 14 days in culture in
   cells transduced with C/EBPa or with C/EBPa and IL7-Ra but
 5 not in cells transduced with IL7-Ra alone. After 3 days of
   growth on OP9, small adherent colonies were formed which
   continued to grow into denser granulated colonies. Similarly
   to Dox-induced Pre- and Pro-B cell cultures, small round ES
   like colonies appeared within the large dense granulated
10 colonies, and Nanog-GFP+ foci were readily detected at
   approximately day 14.
         Plating on OP9 bone marrow stromal cells was critical
   for recovering iPS cells, as no iPS cells were detected when
   the cells were cultured on MEF feeders or gelatin coated
15 plates. Colonies isolated at day 14 were passaged on MEF
   feeder cells without hematopoietic cytokines or Dox and
   within 3 passages all lines assumed an ES-like morphology
   and were positive for the Nanog-GFP marker.
         We performed FACS analysis to measure kinetics of SSEA1
20 and Nanog pluripotency marker activation in Dox induced bone
   marrow B220+ B cell populations and mature spleen IgM+IgD+ B
   cells infected with C/EBPa retrovirus. This assay showed
   similar reprogramming kinetics in which SSEA1+ cells were
   initially detected at day 7 and became abundant at the day
25 11 after Dox addition. Nanog expression was detected at day
   15 similar to the sequential appearance of pluripotency
   markers during reprogramming of MEFs  (Brambrink et al.,
   2008).  Our results suggest that transduction with C/EBPa can
   sensitize mature B cells to respond to the expression of
30 Oct4, Sox2, c-Myc and Klf4 and re-express pluripotency
   markers.

                                 -159
         We established 120 independent iPS lines that were
   picked from independent tissue culture wells containing
   IgM+IgD+ B cells from adult spleen and lymph nodes at 14
   days after Dox addition and C/EBPa transduction, and 9 cell
 5 lines were randomly selected for in depth characterization
   (Lines 1-6 obtained from adult spleen and 7-9 from adult
   lymph nodes).  In the following we will refer to these cell
   lines as "B-iPS" cells   (iPS cells derived from mature "B"
   cells).
10       Next, we characterized marker expression, DNA
   methylation and histone marks of the B-iPS cell lines.
   Immunoflorescence staining showed that all B-iPS cell lines
   uniformly expressed ES cell markers AP, SSEA1 antigen, Oct4
   protein and were positive for Nanog-GFP. Gene expression
15 analysis by RT-PCR showed that B-iPS and ES cells, but not
   primary B cells, expressed comparable levels of Nanog,
   Ecatl,  Rexl, Zfp296 and GDF3 genes.   Bisulphite sequencing
   was performed to determine the methylation status of Oct4
   and Nanog gene promoters for iB-iPS and B-iPS cell lines. As
20 expected, fibroblast and B cell control samples displayed
   extensive methylation at both promoters, whereas B-iPS and
   iB-iPS lines  showed widespread demethylation of these
   regions similar to that seen in ES cells.
         To assess the chromatin state of the cells, chromatin
25 immunopercipitation  (ChIP) and real time PCR were performed
   to quantify 'active' histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation
   (H3K4me3) and 'repressive' histone H3 lysine 27
   trimethylation (H3K27me3) methylation marks on a selected
   set of genes known to be bivalent   (carry both active and
30 repressive methylation marks) in ES cells   (Bernstein et al.,
   2006).  As cells differentiate, such genes can become

                                 -160
   "monovalent" and carry either H3K4me3 or H3K27me3 marks,
   depending on their expression. The promoter region for the B
   cell transcription factor gene Pax5 displayed strong
   enrichment for H3K4me3 methylation in the donor mature B
 5 cells, whereas H3K27me3 methylation predominated at the
   silent genes Zfpm2 and Irx2. Conversely, in B-iPS and ES
   cells all these genes carry equivalent enrichment for both
   histone modifications, consistent with the notion that these
   bivalent domains were re-established during reprogramming.
10      In summary, our results indicate that the chromatin
   configuration of the B-iPS cells had been converted from a
   configuration typical of terminally differentiated adult
   mature B cells to one that is characteristic for ES cells
   (Bernstein et al.,  2006).
15
   Rearrangements of immunoglobulin loci in B-iPS cells confirm
   mature B cell identity of the donor cells
        In order to characterize the genomic rearrangements of
   the Ig loci in the B-iPS cells, genomic DNA from MEF
20 depleted iPS cell lines grown on gelatin was analyzed for
   IgH, Igx and IgA rearrangements by complementary approaches
   that included Southern blotting, PCR and sequencing of
   individual PCR fragments (Alt et al.,    1981; Chang et al.,
   1992; Cobaleda et al.,   2007a;  Lewis et al., 1982; Schlissel
25 et al., 1991)  (Table 6).  All cell lines contained 2 heavy
   chain rearrangements: one was a productive in-frame V-DJ
   rearrangement whereas the other was either a frozen D-J
   rearrangement or a non-productive V-DJ rearrangement. These
   results are consistent with the well established observation
30 that adult mature B cells in the periphery have 2 rearranged
   heavy chain loci  (Jung et al.,   2006).

                                -161
        As predicted for mature B cells, the light chain loci
   had one productive in-frame IgK or IgX light chain
   rearrangement (Jung et al.,  2006). Though 95% of IgA+ B
   cells in mice are known to carry unproductive IgK
 5 rearrangements, B-iPS cell line #9 was derived from a minor
   B cell subpopulation with a rearranged productive IgA chain
   and kappa locus that was retained in the germline
   configuration (Nadel et al.,   1990; Oberdoerffer et al.,
   2003).  Finally, sequences obtained from heavy and light
10 chain rearrangements from B-iPS cell line #4 provided
   conclusive evidence that the donor B cell nucleus that
   yielded this cell line had undergone somatic hypermutation,
   a process that occurs after antigen encounter in vivo and
   involves acquiring a high rate of somatic mutations at
15 "hotspots" located throughout the DNA encoding the
   immunoglobulin variable region (Teng and Papavasiliou,
   2007). This directed hypermutation allows for the selection
   of B cells that express immunoglobulin receptors possessing
   an enhanced ability to recognize and bind a specific foreign
20 antigen. The abundance of mostly non-silent mutations in the
   variable region of the productive rearrangements in this
   cell line shows that non-naive B cells that have already
   encountered antigen in vivo are also amenable to direct
   reprogramming.
25       B-iPS#4 cell line likely arose from a contaminating
   IgM+IgD- cell during the cell sorting process because
   IgM+IgD+ B cells had been selected for reprogramming and
   this selection would be expected to yield only naive mature
   B cells as cells that undergo antigen encounter and somatic
30 hypermutation downregulate the IgD antigen (Matthias and
   Rolink, 2005).  Finally, the C/EBPa viral transgene was

                               -162
   detected in genomic DNA from all B-iPS cell lines analyzed.
   The genomic analyses described above provide unequivocal
   evidence that the iPS cell lines were derived from
   terminally differentiated adult mature B cells which had
 5 completed their maturation in the bone marrow, carried the
   expected functional heavy and light chain rearrangements,
   and populated peripheral lymphoid organs.
   Developmental potential of B-iPS cells
10      As an initial test for developmental potency we
   injected 8 B-iPS cell lines subcutaneously into the dorsal
   flanks of immunodeficient (SCID) mice. Six weeks after
   injection, macroscopic teratomas were observed in all
   injected mice. Histological examination showed that the
15 teratomas contained cell types representing all three
   embryonic germ layers, including gut-like epithelial tissues
   (endoderm), striated muscle (mesoderm), cartilage
   (mesoderm), neural tissues (ectoderm), and keratin
   containing epidermal tissues  (ectoderm). To assess more
20 stringently their developmental potential, individual B-iPS
   cell lines were injected into diploid (2N) blastocysts
   resulting in the generation of viable, high-contribution
   chimaeras from all 4 B-iPS cell lines tested (Table 5).
   Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA isolated from B-iPS
25 #4- and #1-derived chimeras revealed the presence of genomic
   fragments corresponding to rearranged IgK alleles identical
   to those observed in the donor injected B-iPS cell lines.
   Importantly, B-iPS line #1 contributed to the germline as
   was evident by the derivation of offspring carrying a
30 constitutively expressed lentiviral transgene EGFP vector

                                 -163
   that was used for transducing B-iPS line #1 prior to
   blastocyst injections.
        The generation of mice by tetraploid complementation,
   which involves injection of pluripotent cells in 4N host
 5 blastocysts, represents the most rigorous test for
   developmental potency because the resulting embryos are
   derived only from injected donor cells (Eggan et al.,    2001).
   Both B-iPS lines tested   (#4 and #9) were able to generate
   mid- and late-gestation 'all B-iPS embryos' after injection
10 into 4N blastocysts. Sensitive PCR analysis for the
   detection of a 2Kb germ-line region from the B cell receptor
   heavy chain locus that is lost upon initiation of genetic
   rearrangement  (Chang et al.,   1992) shows that genomic DNA
   from B-iPS #4 cell line    embryos derived by tetraploid
15 complementation had lost the germ line band and carried only
   the D-J rearrangement as predicted from the repertoire in
   the donor nucleus. This conclusion was confirmed by Southern
   blot analysis of genomic DNA from a day E14.5 tetraploid
   embryo obtained from B-iPS#4 demonstrating two rearranged
20 IgK locus alleles, without any evidence for a germline
   allele. This is in contrast to DNA obtained from 2N chimeras
   that yielded the same 2 rearranged IgK alleles and a
   germline band originating from host blastocyst derived
   cells.
25      We next tested the ability of reprogrammed mature B
   cells to generate monoclonal B cells in vivo as a result of
   the restrictions imposed by their pre-rearranged IgH and IgL
   loci  (Hochedlinger and Jaenisch, 2002;   Inoue et al., 2005;
   Oberdoerffer et al.,  2003).  To facilitate the isolation of
30 B-iPS derived cells in chimeric mice, B-iPS lines #4 and 9
   were labeled with the GFP marker by lentiviral vector-

                               -164
   mediated transduction prior to blastocyst injection. Surface
   expression of IgK and IgX light chain proteins expressed on
   CD19+ cells purified from peripheral blood was evaluated by
   FACS staining. All GFP+ B cells in B-iPS #4-derived chimeras
 5 expressed Igx chain, but not IgX protein, consistent with
   the genetic analysis that showed a functional IgK light
   chain rearrangement in this cell line. In contrast, B-iPS #9
   cell line-derived B cells carried only a functional IgA
   light chain rearrangement.
10      Finally, we established two B-iPS cell lines that were
   generated by direct infection of genetically unmodified
   mature B cells with the Oct-4, Klf4, Sox2, c-Myc and C/EBPa
   grown in the same culture conditions described in our study
   and were capable of generating adult chimeras.  In summary,
15 our results provide unequivocal molecular and functional
   proof that mature B cell donor nuclei that contain
   functional light and heavy chain rearrangements were
   reprogrammed to pluripotency. The cell lines carried
   productive heavy and light chain rearrangements, expressed
20 pluripotency markers, generated live chimeras and
   contributed to the germ line.
   Efficiency of reprogramming mature adult B cells to
   pluripotency
25      To estimate the efficiency of reprogramming of mature
   adult B cells to pluripotency, a large starting pool
   (3*10') of CD19+ B cells isolated from the spleen of adult
   chimeras was infected with a C/EBPa encoding retrovirus
   carrying a neomycin resistance gene. After 24 hours,
30 IgM+IgD+ B cells were plated as single cells in 96-well
   plates on OP9 stromal cells in cytokine conditioned medium

                               -165
   in the presence of Dox and LIF. Five days after plating
   puromycin and neomycin were added to the culture medium in
   order to select for transgenic B cells that had also been
   infected with C/EBPa (Fig. 4).  At day 20 wells that showed
 5 cell growth were screened by FACS for detection of Nanog
   GFP+ cells. Wells that scored positive were expanded, and
   Nanog-GFP iPS cells appeared within 3 passages. PCR analysis
   of B-iPS lines obtained confirmed that all cell lines
   obtained from two independent experiments originated from
10 C/EBPa-infected mature B cells that had distinct B cell
   receptor rearrangements. Based on these data, we were able
   to calculate the efficiency of reprogramming by dividing the
   number of GFP+ wells obtained  (output) by the number of
   C/EBPa-infected transgenic B cell-containing wells
15 (puromycin and neomycin double resistant wells = input).
   This calculation suggested that the relative efficiency for
   direct reprogramming of mature B cells was approximately 1
   in 27-34 cells. We attribute the relatively high efficiency
   of reprogramming to the strong Dox-mediated induction of 4
20 out of the 5 ectopically expressed factors that did not rely
   on retroviral vector infection and random proviral
   integrations.

                                     -166
        Table 1. Summary of primary iPS lines.
     Initial          GFP          Growth      primary       GFP
   outgrowth      expression        post       iPS line    positive
  (day picked)                    picking
      1  (11)          -              +            -
      2  (11)          -                 --
      3  (11)
      4  (11)
      5  (11)                         +            -
      6  (11)                         +
      7  (11)                         +            +          18
      8  (11)                         +            -
      9  (16)                         +            +          20
     10   (16)                        +            +          20
     11   (16)         +              +            +          18
     12   (16)
     13   (16)                        +
     14   (16)         -              +            +          26
     15   (16)                        +            -
     16   (16)         -
     17   (16)         ...            +
     18   (16)         -              +            -
5       Table 2.  Summary of secondary iPS lines.
  subclones       GFP       Growth      second        GFP
  picked on     express      post           ry     positive
    day 16        ion      picking         iPS
                                          line
       1.1         -           +            +          28
       1.2         -           +
       1.3         -           +            +          30
       4.1         -           +             -
       4.2         -
       4.3         -           +
       5.1         -           +            +          32
       5.2         -
       5.3         -
       6.1         -           +
       6.2         -           +
       6.3         -           +
       8.1         -           +            +          28
       8.2         -           +            +          36
       8.3         -

                                                -167
          Table 3 Summary of genetically unmodified iPS
   derivation
   Background/ type                      Picked        #         Prim/see iPS
                                         on day        expanded  lines
                                          16
   129/B6 F1/ MEFs                        8            3         2
   129/B6 F11 TT                         8             3         1
   Balb/ MEFs                             8            3         2
   B6/DBA F1/ TT                         8             3         1
   Whole plate 129/B6 F1/ MEF             -            5         5
 5
   Table 4. Summary of blastocyst injections.
                         2N injections                          4N injections
   Cell     Injected         Live    Chimerism        Injected       Dead        Live
             blast.        chimeras         (%)         blast.     embryos      embryos
   line                                                           (arrested)  (analyzed)
     OG-7      25              2          15-60           74       4  (El1
                                                                     15)*
   OG-7.3      18              1             40            -
   OG-8.1      16              3          30-60            -
     OG-9      nd              -              -           14           1
                ________             _________(E12.5)                     **
    OG-10      18              3         20-40             -
    OG-14      nd              -              -           42    4 (E11-14)    3  (E14.5)
   129/B6      18            1***           ***            -
      F1/
     MEFs
   Balb/c      22            3***           ***
     MEPS
10

                                           -168
        Table 5. Summary of blastocyst injections.
        The extent of chimerism was estimated on the basis of coat
        color or EGFP expression. ND, not determined. 4N injected
        blastocysts were analyzed between day E10.5 and E14.5.
 5      'Analyzed' indicates the day of embryonic development
        analyzed;     'arrested' indicates the estimated stage of
        development of dead embryos.
                       2N injections                            4N injections
   Cell     Injected      Live   chimerism    Germ-   Injected     Dead embryos       Live
   line   blastocysts   chimeras              line  blastocysts     (arrested)     embryos
                                                                                  (analyzed)
iB-iPS          36          1      10-30        ND       ND             ND             ND
#1
iB-iPS          95          5      40-70       Yes       ND             ND             ND
#4
iB-iPS          20          2      50-70        No       ND             ND             ND
#8
B-iPS           40         3       20-60       Yes       ND             ND             ND
#1
B-iPS           24         2       30-50        No       ND             ND             ND
#2
B-iPS          135         6       30-80        ND      115       7 (E10-14.5)  3   (E12.5)
#4                                                                              2   (E14.5)
B-iPS           95         8       30-80        ND       90       5 (E9-12.5)   5   (E12.5)
#9
B-iPS           46         3       30-60        ND       ND             ND             ND
#121

Table 6-.. Primers used for PCR analysis of Ig
rearrangements.
K: G or T, M: A or C, S: C or G, R: Aor G,W: A or T,Y: C or T.
                            Sense Oligonucleotides
  1gh     V1 J558        CGAGCTCTCCARCACAGCCTWCATGCARCTCARC
  locus
         V1,7183         CGGTACCAAGAASAMCCTGTWCCTGCAAATGASC
         V 1 Q52         CGGTACCAGACTGARCATCASCAAGGACAAYTCC
          V1 Gam3.8      CAAGGGACGGTrTGCCTTCTCTTVGGAA
          DSF            AGGGATCCTTGTGAAGGGATCTACTACTGTG
  IgL     VA1            GCCATTTCCCCAGGCTGTTGTGACTCAGG
  loci
          VK             GGCTGCAGSTTCAGTGGCAGTGGRTCWGGRAC
                          Antisense Oligonucleotides
  Igh     J1 4           TCTCAGCCGGCTCCCTCAGGG
  locus
          J14            AAAGACCTGCAGAGGCCATTCTTACC
          (used    with
          DSF primer)
  lgL     JL,3           ACTCACCTAGGACAGTCAGCTTGGTTCC
  loci
          Jsc5           ATGCGACGTCAACTGATAATGAGCCCTCTCC

                                  -170
   REFERENCES
   The following references are cited herein and their
   teachings are incorporated by reference for all purposes.
 5
   Alt, F.,  et al., Organization and reorganization of
   immunoglobulin genes in A-MULV-transformed cells:
   rearrangement of heavy but not light chain genes. Cell 27,
   381-390  (1981).
10
   Aoi, T.,  et al.,  Generation of Pluripotent Stem Cells from
   Adult Mouse Liver and Stomach Cells. Science. Science Online
   Express  (2008) ,
15 Avilion, J.,   et al.,  Nat. Biotechnol. 20    : 1240-45  (2003).
   Azuara, V.,   et al.,  Nat Cell Biol 8   (5),  532 (2006).
   Bernstein, B.E,,   et al.,  A bivalent chromatin structure
20 marks key developmental genes in embryonic stem cells. Cell
   125, 315-326   (2006).
   Blelloch, R.,   et al.,  Reprogramming efficiency following
   somatic cell nuclear transfer is influenced by the
25 differentiation and methylation state of the donor nucleus.
   Stem cells   (Dayton, Ohio) 24,   2007-2013   (2006).
   Boyer, L.A.,   et al.,  Core transcriptional regulatory
   circuitry in human embryonic stem cells. Cell 122,       947-956
30 (2005).

                                  -171
   Boyer, L.A.,  et al.,  Nature 441   (7091),  349 (2006).
   Brambrink, T.,  et al.,  Sequential Expression of Pluripotency
   Markers during Direct Reprogramming of Mouse Somatic Cells.
 5 Cell Stem Cell 2, 151-159    (2008).
   Brambrink, T.,  et al.,  Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 103    (4),  933
    (2006).
   Byrne, J.A.,  et al.,  Producing primate embryonic stem cells
10 by somatic cell nuclear transfer. Nature 450, 497-502
    (2007).
   Chang, Y.,  et al.,  Enumeration and characterization of DJH
   structures in mouse fetal liver. The EMBO journal 11,      1891
15 1899  (1992).
   Chapman, V.,  et al.,  Nature, 284   (1984).
   Cobaleda, C.,  et al.,  (2007a). Conversion of mature B cells
20 into T cells by dedifferentiation to uncommitted
   progenitors. Nature 449, 473-477.
   Cobaleda, C.,  et al.,  (2007b). Pax5: the guardian of B cell
   identity and function. Nature immunology 8, 463-470.
25
   Cowan, C.A.,  et al., Nuclear reprogramming of somatic cells
   after fusion with human embryonic stem cells. Science       (New
   York, NY 309,  1369-1373  (2005).
30 Eads, C.A. and P. W. Laird, Methods Mol Biol 200, 71      (2002).

                                   -172
   Eggan, K., et al.,    Hybrid vigor, fetal overgrowth, and
   viability of mice derived by nuclear cloning and tetraploid
   embryo complementation. Proceedings of the National Academy
   of Sciences of the United States of America 98,      6209-6214
 5  (2001).
   Eggan, K.,  et al.,   Mice cloned from olfactory sensory
   neurons. Nature 428, 44-49      (2004).
10 Gossen M. et al.,    Transcriptional activation by
   tetracyclines. in mammalian cells, Science 268:      1766-1769
    (1995).
   Grompe, M.   (2005). The origin of hepatocytes.
15 Gastroenterology 128, 2158-2160.
   Gurdon, J.B.   (2006). From nuclear transfer to nuclear
   reprogramming:   the reversal of cell differentiation. Annual
   review of cell and developmental biology 22,      1-22.
20
   Hanna, J.,  et al.,    (2007). Treatment of sickle cell anemia
   mouse model with iPS cells generated from autologous skin.
   Science 318,   1920-1923.
25 Hanna, L.A.,   et al.,   Genes Dev. 16:  2650-61 (2002).
   Hayashi, E.A.,   et al.,   (2005).  Role of TLR in B cell
   development;   signaling through TLR4 promotes B cell
   maturation and is inhibited by TLR2. J Immunol 174,       6639
30 6647.

                                  -173
   Hochedlinger, K.,   and Jaenisch, R. (2002). Monoclonal mice
   generated by nuclear transfer from mature B and T donor
   cells. Nature 415,   1035-1038.
 5 Hochedlinger, K.,   and Jaenisch, R.,      Nature 441    (7097),  1061
    (2006).
   Hochedlinger, K.,   et al.,  Cell 121     (3),  465   (2005).
10 Hochedlinger, K. & Jaenisch, R. Nuclear reprogramming and
   pluripotency. Nature 441, 1061-1067        (2006).
   Hogan et al.,  Cold Spring Contain Laboratory Press, Cold
   Spring Contain, New York, 2003.
15
   Holm, T.M.,  et al.,  Cancer Cell 8     (4),   275  (2005).
   Ihle, J. H.,  Cell 84   : 331-334   (1996).
20 Inoue, K.,  et al.,  (2005). Generation of cloned mice by
   direct nuclear transfer from natural killer T cells. Curr
   Biol 15, 1114-1118.
   Jaenisch, R.,  Young  (2008). Stem Cells, the Molecular
25 Circuitry of Pluripotency and Nuclear Reprogramming. Cell
   132.
   Jaenisch, R.,  N Engl J Med 351     (27),   2787   (2004).
30 Jackson-Grusby, L.,   et al.,  Nat. Genet. 27       (1),  31  (2001).

                                      -174
    Jung,  D.,   et al.,   (2006).  Mechanism and control of V(D)J
    recombination at the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
    Annual review of immunology 24,         541-570.
  5 Labosky, P.A.,     et al.,   Development 120    (11), 3197 (1994).
    Laiosa, C.V.,     et al.,   (2006). Reprogramming of committed T
    cell progenitors to macrophages and dendritic cells by C/EBP
    alpha and PU.1 transcription factors. Immunity 25,          731-744.
10
    Lee, T.I.,    et al.,   Cell 125   (2),  301  (2006).
    Lengner, C. et al. Oct4 is dispensable for somatic stem cell
    self-renewal. Cell Stem Cells submitted (2007).
15
    Lewis, S.,    et al.,   (1982). Continuing kappa-gene
    rearrangement in a cell line transformed by Abelson murine
    leukemia virus. Cell 30, 807-816.
20  Li, E.,    et al.,  Cell 69, 915    (1992).
    Li, J.,    et al.,   (2007). Mice cloned from skin cells.
    Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of          the
    United States of America 104,        2738-2743.
25
    Li, J.,    et al.,   (2004). Odorant receptor gene choice is
    reset by nuclear transfer from mouse olfactory sensory
    neurons. Nature 428, 393-399.

                                   -175
   Loh, Y.H.,  et al.,  (2006). The Oct4 and Nanog transcription
   network regulates pluripotency in mouse embryonic stem
   cells. Nature genetics 38, 431-440.
 5 Lucifero, D.,  et al.,   Genomics 79   (4), 530 (2002).
   Maherali, N. et al.    (2007). Directly Reprogrammed
   Fibroblasts Show Global Epigenetic Remodeling and Widespread
   Tissue Contribution. Cell Stem Cells 1, 55-70.
10
    (2) Maherali, N. et al. Global epigenetic remodeling in
   directly reprogrammed fibroblasts. Cell Stem Cells in press
    (2007).
15 Matthews, V.B.,  et al.,    (2004). Genetic manipulations
   utilizing albumin and alpha-fetoprotein promoter/enhancers
   affect both hepatocytes and oval cells. Hepatology 40,      759
   760.
20 Matthias, P.,  and Rolink, A.G. (2005).     Transcriptional
   networks in developing and mature B cells. Nature reviews 5,
   497-508.
   Meissner, A.,  et al.,   (2007). Direct reprogramming of
25 genetically unmodified fibroblasts into pluripotent stem
   cells. Nature biotechnology 25, 1177-1181.
   Meissner, A.,  et al.,   Nucleic Acids Res 33   (18), 5868
   (2005).
30

                                  -176
   Milne, C.D.,  et al.,   (2004). IL-7 does not prevent pro
   B/pre-B cell maturation to the immature/sIgM(+) stage.
   European journal of immunology 34, 2647-2655.
 5 Mitsui, K.,  et al.,  Cell 113    (5),   631  (2003).
   Munsie M.J.,  et al.,  Curr. Biol. 10 : 989 (2000).
   Nadel, B.,  et al.,  (1990). Murine lambda gene
10 rearrangements:  the stochastic model prevails over the
   ordered model. The EMBO journal 9, 435-440.
   Nakagawa, M.,  et al.,   (2008). Generation of induced
   pluripotent stem cells without Myc from mouse and human
15 fibroblasts. Nature biotechnology 26, 101-106.
   Naviaux, R.K.,  et al.,   The pCL vector system: rapid
   production of helper-free, high-titer, recombinant
   retroviruses. J Virol 70, 5701-5705         (1996).
20
   Oberdoerffer, P.,   et al.,   (2003). Expression of a targeted
   lambda 1 light chain gene is developmentally regulated and
   independent of Ig kappa rearrangements. The Journal of
   experimental medicine 197, 1165-1172.
25
   Okano, M.,  et al.,  Cell 99,   247    (1999).
   Okita, K.,  et al.,  (2007). Generation of germline-competent
   induced pluripotent stem cells. Nature 448, 313-317.
30

                                   -177
   Papavasiliou, F.,   et al.,   (1997). V(D)J recombination in
   mature B cells: a mechanism for altering antibody responses.
   Science 278,  298-301.
 5 Park, I.H.,  et al.,   (2008). Reprogramming of human somatic
   cells to pluripotency with defined factors. Nature 451, 141
   146.
   Peitz, M.,  et al.,  Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99   (7), 4489
10 (2002).
   Postic, C.,  et al.,   (1999). Dual roles for glucokinase in
   glucose homeostasis as determined by liver and pancreatic
   beta cell-specific gene knock-outs using Cre recombinase.
15 The Journal of biological chemistry 274, 305-315.
   Ramji, D.P.,  and Foka, P.    (2002). CCAAT/enhancer-binding
   proteins:  structure, function and regulation. The
   Biochemical journal 365, 561-575.
20
   Rountree, C.B.,   et al.,   (2007). A CD133-expressing murine
   liver oval cell population with bilineage potential. Stem
   cells  (Dayton, Ohio) 25, 2419-2429.
25 Schlissel, M.S.   (2003).  Regulating antigen-receptor gene
   assembly. Nature reviews 3, 890-899.
   Schlissel, M.S., et al.,     (1991). Virus-transformed pre-B
   cells show ordered activation but not inactivation of
30 immunoglobulin gene rearrangement and transcription. The
   Journal of experimental medicine 173,     711-720.

                                  -178
   Shmblott, M.J.,   et al.,  Derivation of pluripotent stem cells
   from cultured human primordial germ cells. Proc. Natl. Acad.
   Sci. USA 95:  13726-13731   (1998).
 5
   Smith A.G.,  et al. Nature 336:     688-690  (1988).
   Stadtfeld, M.,  et al.,   (2008). Defining Molecular
   Cornerstones during Fibroblast to iPS Cell-Reprogramming in
10 Mouse. Cell Stem Cell Advance Online Publication.
   Tada, M.,  et al.,  (2001). Nuclear reprogramming of somatic
   cells by in vitro hybridization with ES cells. Curr Biol 11,
   1553-1558.
15
   Takahashi, K.,  et al.,   (2007).   Induction of pluripotent stem
   cells from adult human fibroblasts by defined factors. Cell
   131, 861-872.
20 Takahashi, K.,  and Yamanaka, S. (2006). Induction of
   pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic and adult
   fibroblast cultures by defined factors. Cell 126,       663-676.
   Tan, D.S.,  et al.,  S.L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120, 8565-8566
25 (1998).
   Teng, G.,  and Papavasiliou, F.N.     (2007).  Immunoglobulin
   somatic hypermutation. Annual review of genetics 41, 107
   120.
30

                                   -179
   Thomson, J.A.,    et al.,  Embryonic stem cell lines derived
   from human blastocysts.      Science, 282:   1145-1147  (1998).
   Urlinger S.,    et al.,  Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U S A.
 5 97(14):7963-8    (2000).  Exploring the sequence space for
   tetracycline-dependent transcriptional activators: novel
   mutations yield expanded range and sensitivity.
   Ventura, A.,    et al.,  Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A   101  (28),
10 10380   (2004).
   Wakayama, T.,    and Yanagimachi, R. (2001). Mouse cloning with
   nucleus donor cells of different age and type. Molecular
   reproduction and development 58, 376-383.
15
   Walsh, C.P.,    et al.,  Nat. Genet. 20  (2),  p116  (1998).
   Wang, X.,   et al.,   (2003). The origin and liver repopulating
20 capacity of murine oval cells. Proceedings of the National
   Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 100
   Suppl 1, 11881-11888.
   Wang, Z. & Jaenisch, R.     At most three ES cells contribute to
25 the somatic lineages of chimeric mice and of mice produced
   by ES-tetraploid complementation. Dev Biol 275, 192-201
   (2004).
   Wernig, M.,   et al.,   (2007). In vitro reprogramming of
30 fibroblasts into a pluripotent ES-cell-like state. Nature
   448,  318-324.

                                   -180
   Wernig, M.A.,   et al.,   (2008).  c-Myc Is Dispensable for
   Direct Reprogramming of Mouse Fibroblasts. Cell Stem Cell 2,
   10-12.
 5
   Wernig, M.,  et al.,   J Neurosci 24   (22), 5258  (2004).
   William R.L.,   et al.,   Nature 336  : 684-687  (1988)
10 Wilmut, I.,  et al.,    (1997). Viable offspring derived from
   fetal and adult mammalian cells. Nature 385, 810-813.
   Xie, H.,  et al.,   (2004). Stepwise reprogramming of B cells
   into macrophages. Cell 117, 663-676.
15
   Yamada, Y.,  et al.,(1990).    Regulation of the collagen II
   gene in vitro and in transgenic mice. Ann. New York Acad.
   Sci. 580, 81-87.
20 Yamanaka, S. Strategies and New Developments in the
   Generation of Patient-Specific Pluripotent Stem Cells. Cell
   Stem Cells 1, 39-49     (2007).
   Yang, X. et al. Nuclear reprogramming of cloned embryos and
25 its implications for therapeutic cloning. Nat Genet 39,       295
   302  (2007).
   Yu, J.,  et al.  (2007).   Induced pluripotent stem cell lines
   derived from human somatic cells. Science       (New York, NY 318,
30 1917-1920.

                               -181
  Zambrowicz B.P. et al.,  Disruption of overlapping
  transcripts in the ROSA bgeo 26 gene trap strain leads to
  widespread expression of b-galatosidase in mouse embryos and
  hematopoietic cells.   Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 3789
5 3794  (1997).
  Zhu, D.,  et al., (2005). Deregulated expression of the Myc
  cellular oncogene drives development of mouse "Burkitt-like"
  lymphomas from naive B  cells. Blood 105, 2135-2137.

                             -182
                            CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.   A method of identifying an agent that reprograms
     somatic cells to a less differentiated state, the
     method comprising steps of:
      (a) contacting somatic cells with a candidate
          reprogramming agent, wherein the somatic cells are
          sensitive to reduced DNA methylation; and
      (b) determining whether more of the cells are
          resistant to reduced DNA methylation than would be
          expected if the agent does not reprogram somatic
          cells, wherein the candidate reprogramming agent
          is identified as a reprogramming agent if more of
          the cells are resistant to reduced DNA methylation
          than would be expected if the candidate
          reprogramming agent does not reprogram somatic
          cells.
2.   The method of claim 1, which comprises maintaining the
     cells in culture under conditions of reduced DNA
     methylation and determining whether more of the cells
     survive than would be expected if the agent does not
     reprogram somatic cells.
3.   The method of claim 1, which comprises treating the
     cells so as to reduce methylation of genomic DNA.
4.   The method of claim 1,  which comprises inhibiting
     expression or activity of a DNA methyltransferase.

                           -183
5.  The method of claim 4, which comprises contacting the
    cells with an agent that inhibits DNA methyltransferase
    activity.
6.  The method of claim 4, which comprises reversibly
    inducing expression of an interfering RNA in the cells,
    wherein the interfering RNA inhibits expression of a
    DNA methyltransferase.
7.  The method of claim 4, wherein the DNA
    methyltransferase is DNA methyltransferase I.
8.  The method of claim 1, which comprises treating the
    cells so as to reduce the average number of methylated
    CpG sequences in the genomic DNA of the cells by at
    least 10%.
9.  The method of claim 1, which comprises reducing the
    average level of mRNA that encodes DNMTl protein in the
    cells by at least 50%.
10. The method of claim 1, which comprises reducing the
    average level of DNMTI protein in the cells by at least
    50%.
11. The method of claim 1, which comprises reducing the
    average level of DNMTl methyltransferase activity in
    the cells by at least 50%.

                           -184
12. The method of claim 1, which comprises maintaining the
    cells in culture for a suitable time period under
    conditions of reduced DNA methylation, wherein the
    presence of living cells following said time period in
    a number greater than would be expected if the agent
    does not reprogram somatic cells indicates that the
    candidate agent reprograms somatic cells to an ES-like
    state.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein said time period is
    between 5 and 30 days.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the presence of at
    least twice as many living cells following said time
    period than would be present if the cells had not been
    contacted with said agent indicates that the candidate
    agent reprograms somatic cells to an ES-like state.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 80% of the
    cells would be expected to cease proliferating or die
    after 20 days if the candidate reprogramming agent does
    not reprogram somatic cells.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are human
    cells.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are not post
    mitotic.

                            -185
18. A method of identifying a reprogramming agent that
    reprograms somatic cells to an ES-like state, the
    method comprising:
     (a)  contacting somatic cells with a reprogramming
          agent identified according to the method of claim
          1; and
     (b)  determining whether said cells exhibit at least
          one characteristic of ES cells other than
          increased resistance to DNA demethylation, and, if
          so, identifying the candidate agent as being an
          agent that reprograms somatic cells to an ES-like
          state.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the additional
    characteristic is selected from the group consisting
    of:  (i) ability to differentiate into cells having
    characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm
    when injected into SCID mice;  (ii) expression of
    endogenous Oct4, Nanog, or both;   Ciii) expression of an
    ES cell marker;  (iv) ability to participate in
    formation of chimeras that survive to term.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the ES cell marker is
    selected from the group consisting of: Alkaline
    Phosphatase (AP), SSEA-1, SSEA-3, and SSEA-4.
21. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has an
    increased likelihood of having been    reprogrammed to an
    ES-like state, the method comprising steps of:

                            -186
     (a) providing somatic cells, at least some of which
         have been at least in part reprogrammed to an ES
         like state; and
    (b)  selecting a cell that   is resistant to DNA
         demethylation, thereby identifying a cell that has
         an increased likelihood of having been
         reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the cell selected in
    step  (b) has been reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the somatic cells
    express an exogenously introduced pluripotency gene.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the method comprises
    contacting cells with a reprogramming agent.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising assessing
    the cell to determine whether it displays one or more
    characteristic of ES cells other than resistance to DNA
    demethylation.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the somatic cells
    reversibly express an RNAi agent targeted to an
    endogenous DNA methyltransferase.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising inhibiting
    expression of the RNAi agent in the selected somatic
    cell, thereby allowing the genomic DNA of the selected
    somatic cell to become methylated.

                            -187
28. The method of claim 21, further comprising selecting a
    cell that has two transcriptionally active X
    chromosomes.
29. The method of claim 21, further comprising selecting a
    cell that expresses an ES cell marker.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the ES cell marker is
    selected from the group consisting of: Alkaline
    Phosphatase  (AP), SSEA-1, SSEA-3, and SSEA-4.
31. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has an
    increased likelihood of having been at least in part
    reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
    steps of:
    (a)  providing somatic cells that are sensitive to DNA
         demethylation;
    (b)  subjecting the cells to one or more treatments
         capable of reprogramming somatic cells;
    (c)  treating the cells so as to reduce methylation of
         genomic DNA;
    (d)  maintaining the cells in culture for a time
         period;  and
    (e)  identifying a cell that is alive after said time
         period, thereby identifying a cell that has an
         increased likelihood of having been at least in
         part reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the cell identified in
    step (e) has been reprogrammed to an ES-like state.

                            -188
33. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of said
    treatments of step (b) comprises contacting the cells
    with a small molecule that is a reprogramming agent.
34. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of said
    treatments of step (b) comprises transfecting the cells
    with a gene, wherein the gene is optionally a
    pluripotency gene.
35. The method of claim 31, wherein said treatment(s)
    comprise transfecting the cells with at least two genes
    selected from the group consisting of: Oct-4, Nanog,
    Sox-2, c-Myc, and Klf4.
36. The method of claim 31, further comprising assessing
    the cell to determine whether it displays one or more
    characteristic of ES cells other than resistance to DNA
    demethylation.
37. The method of claim 31, further comprising selecting a
    cell that expresses an ES cell marker.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the ES cell marker is
    selected from the group consisting of: Alkaline
    Phosphatase  (AP), SSEA-1, SSEA-3, and SSEA-4.
39. The method of claim 31, further comprising selecting a
    cell that has two transcriptionally active X
    chromosomes.

                            -189
40. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has been
    reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
    steps of:
     (a)  providing a population of cells, at least some of
          which have been reprogrammed to an ES-like state,
          wherein said cell comprises a DNA encoding a
          selectable marker operably linked to expression
          control elements that regulate expression of an
          endogenous pluripotency gene in such a manner that
          expression of the selectable marker substantially
          matches expression of the endogenous pluripotency
          gene; and
     (b)  identifying a cell that expresses the selectable
          marker, thereby identifying a somatic cell that
          has been reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the endogenous
    pluripotency gene is Oct-4 or Nanog.
42. The method of claim 40, further comprising selecting a
    cell or colony of cells having a morphology
    characteristic of an ES cell or ES cell colony.
43. The method of claim 40, wherein the cells of step   (a)
    contain one or more exogenously introduced genes
    selected from the group consisting of: Oct-4, Sox-2, c
    Myc, Klf4, and combinations thereof.
44. A purified preparation of isolated pluripotent
    reprogrammed somatic mammalian cells, wherein the cells
     (a) express endogenous Oct4 and Nanog;  (b)

                            -190
    differentiate into tissues having the characteristics
    of endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm when injected into
    SCID mice;  (c) have at least one genetic modification;
    and (d) do not express an exogenously introduced
    pluripotency gene or selectable marker operably linked
    to an endogenous pluripotency gene.
45. The purified preparation of cells of claim 44, wherein
    at least 50% of the cells are    resistant to DNA
    demethylation.
46. The purified preparation of cells of claim 44, wherein
    the cells survive under conditions in which expression
    of DNA methyltransferase I is reduced by at least 50%.
47. The purified preparation of cells of claim 44, wherein
    the cells are genetically matched to a donor of said
    somatic cells or a donor of a precursor cell of said
    somatic cells, wherein said donor is an individual in
    need of cell therapy.
48. A method of generating a reprogrammed somatic cell
    comprising steps of:
     (a) providing a somatic cell that contains at least
         one exogenously introduced gene that contributes
         to reprogramming said cell to an ES-like state,
         wherein said cell has been reprogrammed to an ES
         like state in which the cells are (i) resistant to
         DNA demethylation;   (ii) express endogenous Oct4;
         and (c) differentiate into tissues having the

                           -191
         characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm, and
         ectoderm when injected into SCID mice; and
     (b) functionally inactivating at least one of said
         exogenously introduced genes.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the cell contains
    exogenously introduced genes encoding Oct-4, Sox-2, c
    Myc, and Klf4.
50. The method of claim 48, wherein step (b) comprises
    excising at least a portion of said exogenously
    introduced gene by introducing a site-specific
    recombinase in said cell or expressing a site-specific
    recombinase in the cell.
51. A method of identifying an agent that reprograms
    somatic cells to a less differentiated state, the
    method comprising steps of:
    (a)  providing somatic cells containing two X
         chromosomes, one of which is inactive;
    (b)  contacting the somatic cells with a candidate
         reprogramming agent;
    (c)  maintaining the cells in culture;
    (d)  determining whether more of the cells reactivate
         their inactive X chromosome while in culture than
         would be expected if the candidate agent does not
         reprogram somatic cells, wherein the candidate
         agent is identified as a reprogramming agent if
         more of the cells reactivate their inactive X
         chromosome than would be expected if the candidate

                            -192
         reprogramming agent does not reprogram somatic
         cells.
52. The method of claim 51,   wherein the method comprises
    steps of:
    (a)  providing somatic cells containing two X
         chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein one
         of the X chromosomes contains a functional allele
         of a selectable marker gene and the other X
         chromosome does not contain a functional allele of
         said selectable marker gene;
    (b)  selecting cells that do not express the selectable
         marker, thereby selecting cells in which the X
         chromosome that contains the selectable marker
         gene is inactive;
    (c)  contacting the somatic cells selected in step    (b)
         with a candidate reprogramming agent;
    (d)  determining whether more of the cells express the
         selectable marker than would be expected if the X
         chromosome that contains the functional allele of
         the selectable marker gene remains inactive,
         thereby determining whether more of the cells
         reactivated their inactive X chromosome than would
         be expected if the candidate reprogramming agent
         does not reprogram somatic cells; and
    (e)  identifying the candidate agent as a reprogramming
         agent if more of the cells reactivate their
         inactive X chromosome than would be expected if
         the candidate reprogramming agent does not
         reprogram somatic cells.

                            -193
53. The method of claim 52,   wherein the method comprises
    steps of:
    selecting cells that express a functional form of the
    selectable marker after contacting the cells with the
    candidate reprogramming agent, thereby selecting for
    cells that have reactivated their inactive X
    chromosome.
54. The method of claim 52,   wherein the selectable marker
    is suitable for positive selection and negative
    selection.
55. The method of claim 52, wherein step (b) comprises
    maintaining the cells under conditions in which cells
    that express a functional form of the selectable marker
    substantially do not survive; and step    (d) comprises
    maintaining cells under conditions in which cells that
    do not express a functional form of the selectable
    marker substantially do not survive.
56. The method of claim 52, wherein the gene is an
    endogenous gene present on the X chromosome.
57. The method of claim 52,   wherein the gene encodes
    hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase    (HPRT).
58. The method of claim 52, wherein the X chromosome that
    lacks a functional allele of said gene contains an
    engineered genetic alteration that inactivates the
    gene.

                           -194
59. The method of claim 51, wherein the method comprises
    steps of:
    (a)  providing somatic cells containing two X
         chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein one
         of the X chromosomes contains a functional allele
         of a first selectable marker gene whose expression
         can be selected against and a functional form of a
         second selectable marker gene whose expression can
         be selected for, and wherein the other X
         chromosome lacks a functional allele of each of
         said genes;
    (b)  selecting cells that do not express a functional
         form of the first selectable marker, thereby
         selecting cells in which the X chromosome that
         contains the functional alleles is inactive;
    (c)  contacting the somatic cells with a candidate
         reprogramming agent;
     (d) selecting cells that express a functional form of
         the second selectable marker, thereby selecting
         for cells that have reactivated their inactive X
         chromosome;
    (e)  determining whether more of the cells reactivated
         the inactive X chromosome than would be expected
         if the candidate reprogramming agent does not
         reprogram somatic cells; and
    (f)  identifying the candidate agent as a reprogramming
         agent if more of the cells reactivated their
         inactive X chromosome than would be expected if
         the candidate reprogramming agent does not
         reprogram cells.

                             -195
60. A method of identifying a reprogramming agent suitable
    for reprogramming somatic cells to an ES-like state,
    the method comprising:
     (a)  contacting somatic cells with a reprogramming
          agent identified according to the method of claim
          51; and
     (b)  determining whether said cells exhibit at least
          one characteristic of ES cells other than having
          two transcriptionally active X chromosomes and, if
          so, identifying the candidate agent as being an
          agent that reprograms somatic cells to an ES-like
          state.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the additional
    characteristic is selected from the group consisting
    of:  (i) ability to differentiate into cells having
    characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm
    when injected into SCID mice;    (ii) expression of
    endogenous Oct4,   Nanog, or both;   (iii) expression of an
    ES cell marker;   (iv) ability of the cells to
    participate in formation of chimeras that survive to
    term.
62. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has an
    increased likelihood of having been reprogrammed to an
    ES-like state, the method comprising steps of:
     (a)  providing somatic cells that contain two X
          chromosomes, one of which is inactive;
     (b)  subjecting the cells to one or more treatments
          capable of reprogramming somatic cells; and

                           -196
    (c)  identifying a cell in which the inactive X
         chromosome has become active, thereby identifying
         a cell that has an increased likelihood of having
         been reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the method further
    comprises assessing the cell to determine whether it
    displays one or more characteristic of ES cells other
    than having two transcriptionally active X chromosomes.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein step (b) comprises
    contacting the cells with a small molecule that is a
    reprogramming agent.
65. The method of claim 62, wherein step  (b) comprises
    transfecting the cells with a pluripotency gene.
66. The method of claim 62, wherein the somatic cells
    contain two X chromosomes, one of which is inactive,
    wherein one of the X chromosomes contains a functional
    allele of a selectable marker gene and the other X
    chromosome does not contain a functional allele of said
    selectable marker gene.
67. The method of claim 66, wherein the selectable marker
    gene is an endogenous gene.
68. The method of claim 62, wherein the somatic cells
    contain two X chromosomes, one of which is inactive,
    wherein both of the X chromosomes contain a functional
    allele of a selectable marker gene.

                           -197
69. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has an
    increased likelihood of having been reprogrammed to an
    ES-like state, the method comprising steps of:
    (a)  providing somatic cells that contain two X
         chromosomes, one of which is inactive,
         wherein the inactive X chromosome of the cells
         contains a functional allele of a selectable
         marker gene that is useful for both positive and
         negative selection, and the active X chromosome
         does not contain a functional allele of said
         marker gene;
    (b)  subjecting the cells to one or more treatments
         capable of reprogramming somatic cells; and
    (c)  selecting a cell that expresses the selectable
         marker gene, thereby selecting cells in which the
         inactive X chromosome has become transcriptionally
         active and that has an increased likelihood of
         having been reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
70. The method of claim 69, wherein the selectable marker
    gene is an endogenous gene normally present on said X
    chromosome.
71. The method of claim 69, wherein the selectable marker
    gene encodes HPRT.
72. The method of claim 69, wherein the active X chromosome
    contains a nonfunctional allele of said selectable
    marker gene, wherein said nonfunctional allele has a

                            -198
    mutation or engineered alteration that inactivates the
    allele.
73. The method of claim 69, which comprises:
    (i)  providing somatic cells that contain two X
          chromosomes, one of which is inactive, wherein one
         of the X chromosomes contains a functional allele
         of a selectable marker gene and the other X
          chromosome does not contain a functional allele of
          the selectable marker gene;
    (ii) selecting cells that do not express the selectable
         marker gene, thereby selecting cells in which the
          inactive X chromosome contains a functional allele
         of the selectable marker gene;
    (iii)      subjecting the cells of step (ii) to one or
               more treatments capable of reprogramming
               somatic  cells; and
    (iv)       selecting cells that express the selectable
               marker gene, thereby selecting cells in which
               the inactive X chromosome has become
               transcriptionally active.
74. The method of claim 62, wherein the somatic cells
    contain two X chromosomes, one of which is inactive,
    wherein both of the X chromosomes contain a functional
    allele of a selectable marker gene that is useful for
    both positive and negative selection, and the method
    comprises:
    (a)   selecting cells that do not express the selectable
         marker gene, thereby obtaining a population of

                           -199
         cells in which a first X chromosome is
         transcriptionally inactive;
     (b) subjecting the cells to one or more treatments
         capable of reprogramming somatic   cells;
     (c) functionally inactivating the selectable marker
         gene on said first x chromosome; and
     (d) selecting a cell that expresses the selectable
         marker gene, thereby selecting a cell in which the
         second X chromosome is transcriptionally active.
75. The method of claim 74, wherein the selectable marker
    gene is an endogenous gene normally present on said X
    chromosome.
76. The method of claim 74, wherein step (c) comprises
    functionally inactivating the selectable marker gene
    using a site-specific recombinase.
77. A method of identifying an agent that reprograms
    somatic cells to a less differentiated state, the
    method comprising steps of:
     (a) contacting somatic cells with a candidate
         reprogramming agent, wherein the somatic cells are
         sensitive to reduced DNA methylation; and
     (b) determining the amount of cells that are resistant
         to reduced DNA methylation, wherein an increased
         amount of cells that are resistant to reduced DNA
         methylation, as compared to a control, is
         indicative of the candidate agent being a
         reprogramming agent.

                            -200
78.  A method of deriving a somatic cell that has an
increased likelihood of having been reprogrammed to an ES
like state, the method comprising steps of:
      (a) providing somatic cells that do not contain a
          genetic modification -usable for chemical selection
          of said cells, wherein at least some of the cells
          have been at least in part reprogrammed to an ES
          like state; and
      (b) selecting a cell or colony of cells having a
          morphology characteristic of an ES cell or ES cell
          colony.
79.  The method of claim 78, wherein the somatic cells are
     not genetically modified.
80.  The method of claim 78, wherein the provided somatic
     cells do not contain a DNA construct usable for
     chemical selection of said cells.
81.  The method of claim 78, wherein the provided somatic
     cells do not contain a DNA construct usable for genetic
     or chemical selection of said cells.
82.  The method of claim 78, wherein the somatic cells
     contain at least one exogenously introduced
     reprogramming agent.
83.  The method of claim 82, wherein said exogenously
     introduced reprogramming agent is a protein introduced
     by protein transduction or transient transfection of a
     construct encoding said protein.

                             -201
84. The method of claim 78, wherein the somatic cells of
    step (a) contain one or more exogenously introduced
    pluripotency genes or proteins encoded by such genes.
85. The method of claim 78, wherein the somatic cells
    contain or express at least two non-endogenous proteins
    selected from the group consisting of Oct-4, Sox-2, c
    Myc, and Klf4.
86. The method of claim 78, wherein the somatic cells of
    step (a) contain one or more exogenously introduced
    genes selected from the group consisting of:   Oct-4,
    Sox-2, c-Myc, Klf4, and combinations thereof.
87. The method of claim 78, wherein at least some of the
    cells of, step (a) have been reprogrammed to an ES-like
    state.
88. The method of claim 78, wherein the selected cells
    display at least three of the following
    characteristics:   (i) ability to differentiate into
    cells having characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm, and
    ectoderm when injected into SCID mice;   (ii) expression
    of endogenous Oct4, Nanog, or both;   (iii) expression of
    an ES cell marker; and (iv) ability to participate in
    formation of chimeras that survive to term.
89. The method of claim 88, wherein the ES cell marker is
    selected from the group consisting of: Alkaline
    Phosphatase  (AP), SSEA-1, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, and TRAF-60.

                            -202
90. The method of claim 78,   further comprising subjecting
    the identified cells to one or more selection steps to
    separate ES-like cells from cells that are not
    reprogrammed to an ES-like state.
91. The method of claim 90, wherein said one or more
    selection steps are selected from:
     (a)  selecting cells resistant to complement-mediated
          lysis of cells in the presence of complement
         components sufficient to lyse cells that are not
         reprogrammed to an ES-like state;
     (b) cell sorting based on expression of a cell surface
         marker characteristic of ES cells but not somatic
         cells;
     (c) selecting cells that are resistant to DNA
         demethylation;
     (d) selecting cells having two active X chromosomes;
         and
     (e) passaging or subcloning said colony and
         identifying cells or a cell colony having an ES
         like morphology from among progeny of the cells of
         said colony.
92. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has been
    reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
    steps of:
     (a) providing a population of cells, at least some of
         which have been reprogrammed to an ES-like state,
         wherein said cell does not comprise a DNA encoding
         a selectable marker operably linked to expression

                           -203
         control elements that regulate expression of an
         endogenous pluripotency gene; and
    (b) identifying a cell or colony of cells having a
         morphology characteristic of an ES cell or ES cell
         colony.
93. The method of claim 92, further comprising separating
    said cell or at least some cells from said colony of
    cells from other cells in the population lacking such
    morphology.
94. The method of claim 92, wherein the cells of step (a)
    contain one or more exogenously introduced genes
    selected from the group consisting of: Oct-4, Sox-2, c
    Myc, Klf4, and combinations thereof.
95. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has been
    reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
    steps of:
     (a) introducing one or more reprogramming agents into
         cells, wherein said reprogramming agents are
         sufficient to reprogram at least some of said
         cells to an ES-like state;
     (b) maintaining said cells in culture for a suitable
         period of time to allow colonies containing ES
         like cells to develop; and
     (c) identifying at least one such colony of ES-like
         cells without employing chemical or genetic
         selection.

                            -204
96. The method of claim 95, wherein step  (a) comprises
    introducing one or more genes selected from the group
    consisting of: Oct-4, Sox-2, c-Myc, Klf4, and
    combinations thereof into the cells.
97. A method of identifying a somatic cell that has been
    reprogrammed to an ES-like state, the method comprising
    steps of:
     (a) providing a population of somatic cells, at least
         some of which have been reprogrammed to an ES-like
         state, wherein said cells do not comprise a DNA
         encoding a selectable marker operably linked to
         expression control elements that regulate
         expression of an endogenous pluripotency gene;
    (b)  maintaining said cells in culture in the presence
         of  (i) complement components sufficient to effect
         cell lysis; and (ii) a complement-fixing antibody
         that specifically binds to a marker present at the
         cell surface of somatic cells that are not
         reprogrammed to an ES-like state but is absent or
         expressed at insignificant levels by ES cells; and
    (c)  isolating cells that survive step  (b).
98. The method of claim 97, wherein said marker is an MHC
    Class I antigen.
99. The method of claim 97, wherein said insignificant
    level is less than 10-fold the average level expressed
    by fibroblasts from an organism of the same type as
    that of the somatic cells.

                             -205
100. A purified preparation of isolated pluripotent
     reprogrammed somatic mammalian cells, wherein the cells
     (a) express endogenous Oct4 and Nanog;   (b)
     differentiate into tissues having the characteristics
     of endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm when injected into
     SCID mice; and (c) do not contain a DNA encoding a
     selectable marker operably linked to an endogenous
     pluripotency gene.
101. The purified preparation of cells of claim 100, wherein
     said cells are not genetically modified.
102. The purified preparation of cells of claim 100, wherein
     the cells are genetically matched to a donor of said
     somatic cells or a donor of a precursor cell of said
     somatic cells, wherein said donor is an individual in
     need of cell therapy.
103. A method of deriving a reprogrammed somatic cell
     comprising steps of:
     (a)  providing a somatic cell that contains at least ne
          exogenously introduced gene or protein that
          contributes to reprogramming said cell to an ES
          like state, wherein said cell has been
          reprogrammed to an ES-like state in which the
          cells are  (i) resistant to DNA demethylation; (ii)
          express endogenous Oct4; and (c) differentiate
          into tissues having the characteristics of
          endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm when injected
          into SCID mice;

                             -206
      (b) isolating ES-like cells without genetic or
          chemical selection; and
     (c)  functionally inactivating at least one of said
          exogenously introduced genes.
104. The method of claim 103, wherein the cell contains
     exogenously introduced genes encoding Oct-4, Sox-2, c
     Myc, and Klf4 or the proteins themselves.
105. The method of claim 103, wherein step (b) comprises
     excising at least a portion of said exogenously
     introduced gene by introducing a site-specific
     recombinase in said cell or expressing a site-specific
     recombinase in the cell.
106. A method of deriving reprogrammed cells comprising
     steps of:  (i) providing a population of non-genetically
     modified cells, at least some of which are partly or
     fully reprogrammed to an ES-like state;  (ii) enriching
     for partly or fully reprogrammed cells using
     complement-mediated lysis to eliminate at least some
     unreprogrammed cells; and (iii) identifying
     reprogrammed cells or colonies comprising such cells
     using morphological criteria.
107. An isolated somatic cell that has been reprogrammed to
     an ES-like state, wherein the somatic cell is not
     genetically modified with a nucleic acid construct
     encoding a marker useful for chemical or genetic
     selection.

                            -207
108. The isolated somatic cell of claim 107, wherein the
     cell is not genetically modified.
109. A purified population of somatic cells, wherein at
     least 90% of the cells have been reprogrammed to an ES
     like state and are not genetically modified with a
     nucleic acid construct encoding a marker useful for
     chemical or genetic selection.
110. The purified population of somatic cells of claim 32,
     wherein the cells are not genetically modified.
111. The method of claim 78, wherein the provided somatic
     cells are obtained from a mouse, a rat, a rabbit, a
     farm animal, a companion animal, a primate or a human.
112. The purified population of somatic cells of claim 109,
     wherein the somatic cells are obtained from a mouse, a
     rat, a rabbit, a farm animal, a companion animal, a
     primate or a human.
113. A method of reprogramming a differentiated somatic cell
     to a pluripotent state, comprising the steps of:
      (a) contacting a differentiated somatic cell with at
          least one reprogramming agent that contributes to
          reprogramming of said cell to a pluripotent state;
      (b) maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          said at least one reprogramming agent for a period
          of time sufficient to begin reprogramming of said
          cell; and

                            -208
     (c)  functionally inactivating said at least one
          reprogramming agent.
114. A method of reprogramming a differentiated somatic cell
     to a pluripotent state, comprising the steps of:
     (a)  providing a differentiated somatic cell that
          contains at least one exogenously introduced
          factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
          cell to a pluripotent state;
     (b)  maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          said at least one exogenously introduced factor
          for a period of time sufficient to activate at
          least one endogenous pluripotency gene; and
     (c)  functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor.
115. A method of selecting a differentiated somatic cell
     that has been reprogrammed to a pluripotent state,
     comprising the steps of:
     (a)  providing a differentiated somatic cell that
          contains at least one exogenously introduced
          factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
          cell to a pluripotent state;
     (b)  maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          said at least one exogenously introduced factor
          for a period of time sufficient to activate at
          least one endogenous pluripotency gene;
     (c)  functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor; and

                            -209
     (d)  differentiating cells which display one or more
          markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
116. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is partially
     differentiated.
117. The method of claim 113,  114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is fully differentiated.
118. The method of claim 113,  114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is cell of hematopoetic
     lineage.
119. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is obtained from peripheral
     blood.
120. The method of claim 113,  114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is an immune system cell.
121. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is a macrophage.
122. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is a lymphoid cell.
123. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell is a B cell,

                            -210
124. The method of claim 116 wherein said partially
     differentiated cell is an immature B cell.
125. The method of claim 116 wherein said immature B cell is
     a pre-B cell or a pro-B cell.
126. The method of claim 117 wherein said fully
     differentiated cell is a mature B cell.
127. The method of claim 117 wherein said fully
     differentiated cell is a non-naive mature B cell.
128. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is a polynucleotide.
129. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is a polypeptide.
130. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is selected from the
     group consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, Nanog, Lin28, c
     Myc and combinations thereof.
131. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell contains exogenously
     introduced Oct4, Sox2, and Klf-4.
132. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell contains exogenously
     introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc.

                            -211
133. The method of claim 123 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor is selected from the
     group consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and
     combinations thereof and wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell further contains at least one exogenously
     introduced factor capable of inducing dedifferentiation
     of said differentiated somatic cell.
134. The method of claim 133 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell
     is a polynucleotide.
135. The method of claim 133 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell
     is a polypeptide.
136. The method of claim 123 wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell contains exogenously introduced genes
     Oct4, Sox2 and Klf-4 and further contains at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell.
137. The method of claim 136 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell
     is a polynucleotide.
138. The method of claim 136 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing

                            -212
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell
     is a polypeptide.
139. The method of claim 123 wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell contains exogenously introduced genes
     Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc and further contains at
     least one exogenously introduced factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell
140. The method of claim 139 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell
     is a polynucleotide.
141. The method of claim 139 wherein said at least one
     exogenously introduced factor capable of inducing
     dedifferentiation of said differentiated somatic cell
     is a polypeptide.
142. The method of claim 133 wherein said factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell is selected from the group consisting of
     at least one polynucleotide which downregulates B cell
     late specific markers, at least one polynucleotide
     which inhibits expression of Pax5, at least one
     polypeptide which downregulates B cell late specific
     markers, at least one polypeptide which inhibits
     expression of Pax5, and combinations thereof.

                            -213
143. The method of claim 136 wherein said factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell is selected from the group consisting of
     at least one polynulceotide which downregulates B cell
     late specific markers, at least one polynucleotide
     which inhibits expression of PaxE, at least one
     polypeptide which downregulates B cell late specific
     markers, at least one polypeptide which inhibits
     expression of Pax5, and combinations thereof.
144. The method of claim 139 wherein said factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell is selected from the group consisting of
     at least one polynucleotide which downregulates B cell
     late specific markers, at least one polynucleotide
     which inhibits expression of Pax5, at least one
     polypeptide which downregulates B cell late specific
     markers, at least one polypeptide which inhibits
     expression of Pax5, and combinations thereof.
145. The method of claim 133 wherein said factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell is C/EBPa or a human homolog of C/EBPa.
146. The method of claim 136 wherein said factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell is C/EBPa or a human homolog of C/EBPa.
147. The method of claim 139 wherein said factor capable of
     inducing dedifferentiation of said differentiated
     somatic cell is C/EBPa or a human homolog of C/EBPa.

                            -214
148. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a
     vector.
149. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using
     an inducible vector or a conditionally expressed
     vector,
150. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a
     vector which is not subject to methylation-mediated
     silencing.
151. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a
     viral vector.
152. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a
     retroviral vector.
153. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said at least
     one exogenously introduced factor is introduced using a
     lentiviral vector.
154. The method of claim 118 wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell is maintained in the presence of
     hematopoetic cytokines and growth factors.

                            -215
155. The method of claim 123 wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell is maintained in the presence of
     hematopoetic cytokines and growth factors.
156. The method of claim 118 wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell is cultured on media comprising bone
     marrow stromal cells.
157. The method of claim 123 wherein said differentiated
     somatic cell is cultured on media comprising bone
     marrow stromal cells.
158. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said endogenous
     pluripotency gene is selected from the group consisting
     of Nanog, Oct4, Sox2 and combinations thereof.
159. The method of claim 114 or 115 wherein said endogenous
     pluripotency gene is co-expressed with a selectable
     marker.
160. The method of claim 159 wherein the selectable marker
     is an antibiotic resistance gene or luminescent marker.
161. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell further comprises at least
     one polynucleotide encoding a selectable marker
     operably linked to expression control elements that
     regulate expression of said at least one endogenous
     pluripotency gene.

                            -216
162. The method of claim 113,  114 or 115 wherein said
     differentiated somatic cell comprises a selectable gene
     in the Qct4 locus, the Nanog locus, or both the Oct4
     and Nanog loci.
163. The method of claim 113, 114 or 115 wherein said at
     least one exogenously introduced factor is introduced
     using an inducible vector and wherein functionally
     inactivating said at least one exogenously introduced
     factor comprises rendering the conditions under which
     said cell is maintained unsuitable for inducible
     expression of said vector.
164. The method of claim 115 wherein said at least one
     marker of pluripotency is selected from the group
     consisting of expression of a pluripotency gene,
     expression of a gene whose expression is a direct or
     indirect result of expression of a pluripotency gene,
     expression of alkaline phosphatase, expression of
     SSEA1, expression of SSEA3, expression of SSEA4,
     expression of TRAF-60, expression of Nanog, expression
     of Oct4, expression of Fxb15, morphology characteristic
     of an ES cell or an ES cell colony, ability to
     participate in formation of chimeras that survive to
     term, ability to differentiate into cells having
     characteristics of endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm when
     injected into SCID mice, presence of two active X
     chromosomes, resistance to DNA methylation, and
     combinations thereof.

                            -217
165. An isolated pluripotent cell derived from a
     reprogrammed differentiated somatic cell.
166. A purified population of somatic cells comprising at
     least 70% pluripotent cells derived from reprogrammed
     differentiated somatic cells.
167. An isolated pluripotent cell produced by a method
     comprising:
      (a) providing a differentiated somatic cell that
          contains at least one exogenously introduced
          factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
          cell to a pluripotent state;
      (b) maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          said at least one exogenously introduced factor
          for a period of time sufficient to activate at
          least one endogenous pluripotency gene;
      (c) functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor; and
      (d) differentiating cells which display one or more
          markers of pluripotency from cells which do not.
168. A purified population of somatic cells comprising at
     least 70% pluripotent cells derived from reprogrammed
     differentiated somatic cells produced by a method
     comprising:
      (a) providing a differentiated somatic cell that
          contains at least one exogenously introduced
          factor that contributes to reprogramming of said
          cell to a pluripotent state;

                            -218
      (b) maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          said at least one exogenously introduced factor
          for a period of time sufficient to activate at
          least one endogenous pluripotency gene;
      (c) functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor; and
      (d) differentiating cells which display one or more
          markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
169. A method of producing a pluripotent cell from a somatic
     cell, comprising the steps of:
      (a) providing one or more somatic cells that each
          contain at least one exogenously introduced factor
          that contributes to reprogramming of said cell to
          a pluripotent state, wherein said exogenously
          introduced factor is introduced using an inducible
          vector which is not subject to methylation-induced
          silencing;
      (b) maintaining said one or more cells under
          conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
          cells and for activity of said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
          sufficient to activate at least one endogenous
          pluripotency gene;
      (c) functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor;
      (d) selecting one or more cells which display a marker
          of pluripotency;

                            -219
     (e)  generating a chimeric embryo utilizing said one or
          more cells which display a marker of pluripotency;
     (f)  obtaining one or more somatic cells from said
          chimeric embryo;
     (g)  maintaining said one or more somatic cells under
          conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
          cells and for activity of said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
          sufficient to activate at least one endogenous
          pluripotency gene; and
     (h)  differentiating between cells which display one or
          more markers of pluripotency and cells which do
          not.
170. An isolated pluripotent cell produced by a method
     comprising:
      (a) providing one or more somatic cells that each
          contain at least one exogenously introduced factor
          that contributes to reprogramming of said cell to
          a pluripotent state, wherein said exogenously
          introduced factor is introduced using an inducible
          vector which is not subject to methylation-induced
          silencing;
     (b)  maintaining said one or more cells under
          conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
          cells and for activity of said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
          sufficient to activate at least one endogenous
          pluripotency gene;
     (c)  functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor;

                            -220
     (d)  selecting one or more cells which display a marker
          of pluripotency;
     (e)  generating a chimeric embryo utilizing said one or
          more cells which display a marker of pluripotency;
     (f)  obtaining one or more differentiated somatic cells
          from said chimeric embryo;
     (g)  maintaining said one or more differentiated
          somatic cells under conditions appropriate for
          proliferation of said cells and for activity of
          said at least one exogenously introduced factor
          for a period of time sufficient to activate at
          least one endogenous pluripotency gene;  and
     (h)  differentiating cells which display one or more
          markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
171. A purified population of somatic cells comprising at
     least 70% pluripotent cells derived from reprogrammed
     differentiated somatic cells produced by a method
     comprising:
     (a)  providing one or more somatic cells that each
          contain at least one exogenously introduced factor
          that contributes to reprogramming of said cell to
          a pluripotent state, wherein said exogenously
          introduced factor is introduced using an inducible
          vector which is not subject to methylation-induced
          silencing;
     (b)  maintaining said one or more cells under
          conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
          cells and for activity of said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor for a period of time

                            -221
          sufficient to activate at least one endogenous
          pluripotency gene;
     (c)  functionally inactivating said at least one
          exogenously introduced factor;
     (d)  selecting one or more cells which display a marker
          of pluripotency;
     (e)  generating a chimeric embryo utilizing said one or
          more cells which display a marker of pluripotency;
     (f)  obtaining one or more differentiated somatic cells
          from said chimeric embryo;
     (g)  maintaining said one or more differentiated
          somatic cells under conditions appropriate for
          proliferation of said cells and for activity of
          said at least one exogenously introduced factor
          for a period of time sufficient to activate at
          least one endogenous pluripotency gene; and
     (h)  differentiating cells which display one or more
          markers of pluripotency and cells which do not.
172. A method of reprogramming a differentiated immune cell
     to a pluripotent state, comprising the steps of:
     (a)  providing a differentiated immune cell that
          contains exogenously introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4
          and c-Myc, each under the control of an inducible
          vector, and further contains exogenously
          introduced C/EBPa;
     (b)  maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and C/EBPa for a period
          of time sufficient to activate endogenous Nanog
          and/or Oct4; and

                            -222
      (c) functionally inactivating exogenously introduced
          Oct4, Sox2, KIf-4 and c-Myc.
173. The method of claim 172 wherein said inducible vector
     is not subject to methylation-derived silencing.
174. A purified population of immune cells comprising at
     least 70% pluripotent cells derived from reprogrammed
     differentiated immune cells produced by a method
     comprising the steps of:
      (a) providing a differentiated immune cell that
          contains exogenously introduced Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4
          and c-Myc, each under the control of an inducible
          vector, and further contains exogenously
          introduced C/EBPa;
      (b) maintaining said cell under conditions appropriate
          for proliferation of said cell and for activity of
          Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4, c-Myc and C/EBPa for a period
          of time sufficient to activate endogenous Nanog
          and/or Oct4; and
      (c) functionally inactivating exogenously introduced
          Oct4, Sox2, Klf-4 and c-Myc.
175. A method of identifying a reprogramming agent
     comprising:
      (a) providing one or more somatic cells that each
          contain at least one exogenously introduced factor
          that contributes to reprogramming of said cell to
          a pluripotent state, wherein each of said
          exogenously introduced factors is introduced using
          an inducible vector which is not subject to

                       -223
    methylation-induced silencing and the expression
    of which is controlled by regulatory elements
    induced by distinct inducers;
(b) maintaining said one or more cells under
    conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
    cells and for activity of said at least one
    exogenously introduced factor for a period of time
    sufficient to reprogram said cell or to activate
    at least one endogenous pluripotency gene;
(c) functionally inactivating said at least one
    exogenously introduced factor;
(d) selecting one or more cells which display a marker
    of pluripotency;
(e) generating a chimeric embryo utilizing said one or
    more cells which display a marker of pluripotency;
(f) obtaining one or more somatic cells from said
    chimeric embryo;
(g) maintaining said one or more somatic cells under
    conditions appropriate for proliferation of said
    cells and for activity of said at least one
    exogenously introduced factor wherein activity of
    said at least one exogenously introduced factor is
    insufficient by itself to activate at least one
    endogenous pluripotency gene;
(h) contacting the somatic cell of   (g) with one or
    more candidate reprogramming agents; and
(i) identifying cells contacted with said one or more
    candidate reprogramming agents which display one
    or more markers of pluripotency,wherein candidate
    reprogramming agents which induce the somatic cell
    of  (g) to display one or more markers of

                  -224
pluripotency are identified as reprogramming
agents.

<removed-date>
              EDITORIAL NOTE
               <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
                Page 3 of
                drawings is
                 figure 3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
