                                        ABSTRACT
         Certain embodiments provide methods to mitigate communication risks in an
electronic trading system. An example method including monitoring a communication link
established between a mobile trading device and a gateway. The gateway is to provide access
to one or more markets at an exchange. The example method also includes determining a
communication state related to the communication link and comparing the communication
state to a communication risk threshold. The communication state reflects an ability of the
mobile trading device to communicate with the exchange. If the communication state falls
below the communication risk threshold, a risk mitigation action stored at the gateway is
initiated.

            1/8
    0   ~00
      w
      0
0F>

                TITLE:           MITIGATING COMMUNICATION RISKS IN AN
                                 ELECTRONIC TRADING SYSTEM
                                         BACKGROUND
[0001]      An electronic trading system generally includes a trading device in
communication with an electronic exchange. The electronic exchange sends information
about a market, such as prices and quantities, to the trading device. The trading device sends
messages, such as messages related to orders, to the electronic exchange. The electronic
exchange attempts to match quantity of an order with quantity of one or more contra-side
orders.
100021      A mobile trading device such as, for example, a cell phone, a tablet, etc. is
generally in communication with the electronic exchange via a wireless communication
network. One or more conditions may affect communication via the mobile trading device
such as, for example, a connectivity level of the mobile trading device to the wireless
communication network, server latency at a gateway, etc.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
10003]      Certain embodiments are disclosed with reference to the following drawings.
100041      FIG. I illustrates a block diagram representative of an example electronic trading
system in which certain embodiments may be employed.
100051      FIG. 2 illustrates a block diagram of another example electronic trading system in
which certain embodiments may be employed.
100061      FIG. 3 illustrates a block diagram of an example computing device which may be
used to implement the disclosed embodiments.
100071      FIG. 4 illustrates an example trading area in accordance with the teachings of this
disclosure.
100081      FIG. 5 illustrates an example method to mitigate a communication risk.
100091      FIG. 6 illustrates another example method to mitigate a communication risk.

 [00101      FIG. 7 illustrates yet another example method to mitigate a communication risk.
 [00111      FIG. 8 illustrates a block diagram of an example system which may be used to
implement the disclosed embodiments.
 100121      Certain embodiments will be better understood when read in conjunction with the
provided figures, which illustrate examples. It should be understood, however, that the
embodiments are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached
figures.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00131       This disclosure relates generally to electronic trading systems and, more
specifically, mitigating communication risks in an electronic trading system.
100141       Mobile or portable trading devices such as, for example, cell phones, tablets,
laptops, etc., may establish a communication link with a gateway (e.g., via a wireless
communication network). A state of one or more communication conditions (e.g., a
connectivity level of the mobile trading device, memory usage at the gateway, etc.) related to
the communication link may affect an ability of the mobile trading device to communicate
with an exchange via the gateway. For example, if the connectivity level of the mobile
trading device deteriorates (e.g., due to a loss of power of the mobile trading device, a
location of the mobile trading device, etc.), the communication between the mobile trading
device and the gateway may be interrupted (e.g., delayed, incomplete, and/or substantially
impaired).
10015]       Embodiments disclosed herein mitigate communication risks in an electronic
trading system. Certain embodiments include monitoring the communication link established
between the mobile trading device and the gateway and determining a communication state
related to the communication link. If the communication state falls below a communication
risk threshold, a risk mitigation action is initiated. For example, if the communication state
falls below the communication risk threshold, an action stored at the gateway may be
performed to enable a user to get flat in a market position.
10016]       Certain embodiments disclosed herein determine the communication state based
on a location of the mobile trading device. In some examples, a map is generated and/or
updated by associating an area with a communication state determined via one or more other
                                                   2

 mobile trading devices located in the area. If the mobile trading device is located in the area,
the mobile trading device is associated with the communication state associated with the area
(e.g., according to the map).
 100171      Although this description discloses embodiments including, among other
components, software executed on hardware, it should be noted that the embodiments are
merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example, it is contemplated
that any or all of these hardware and software components may be embodied exclusively in
hardware, exclusively in software, exclusively in firmware, or in any combination of
hardware, software, and/or firmware. Accordingly, certain embodiments may be
implemented in other ways.
I.      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EMBODIMENTS
100181       Certain embodiments provide a method including monitoring a communication
link established between a mobile trading device and a gateway. The gateway is to provide
access to one or more markets at an exchange. The example method also includes
determining a communication state related to the communication link and comparing the
communication state to a communication risk threshold. The communication state reflects an
ability of the mobile trading device to communicate with the exchange. If the
communication state falls below the communication risk threshold, a risk mitigation action
stored at the gateway is initiated.
100191       Certain embodiments provide a tangible computer readable storage medium
including computer program code that, when executed by a processor, implement a method to
mitigate a communication risk. The example method includes at least determining a state of
a communication condition of at least one of a portable trading device and a gateway. The
portable trading device is to be in communication with an exchange via the gateway. Based
on the state, the example method includes performing an action via the portable trading
device to mitigate a risk of a market position not closing due to an interruption in
communication between the portable trading device and the exchange.
100201       Certain embodiments provide a method including determining a location of a
portable trading device. The portable trading device is to be in communication with an
exchange. The example method also includes associating the portable trading device with a
communication state based on the location and, based on the communication state,
                                                3

 performing an action via the portable trading device to mitigate a risk of a market position not
 closing due to an interruption in communication between the portable trading device and the
 exchange.
 II.     EXAMPLE ELECTRONIC TRADING SYSTEM
 [0021]      FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram representative of an example electronic trading
 system 100 in which certain embodiments may be employed. The system 100 includes a
trading device I 10, a gateway 120, and an exchange 130. The trading device 110 is in
 communication with the gateway 120. The gateway 120 is in communication with the
 exchange 130. As used herein, the phrase "in communication" encompasses direct
 communication and/or indirect communication through one or more intermediary
components. The example electronic trading system 100 depicted in FIG. I may be in
communication with additional components, subsystems, and elements to provide additional
 functionality and capabilities without departing from the teaching and disclosure provided
 herein.
 [00221      In operation, the trading device 1 10 may receive market data from the exchange
 130 through the gateway 120. A user may utilize the trading device 1 10 to monitor this
market data and/or base a decision-to send an order message to buy or sell one or more
tradeable objects to the exchange 130.
 100231      Market data may include data about a market for a tradeable object. For example,
market data may include the inside market, market depth, last traded price ("LTP"), a last
traded quantity ("LTQ"), or a combination thereof. The inside market is the lowest available
ask price (best offer) and the highest available bid price (best bid) in the market for a
particular tradable object at a particular point in time (since the inside market may vary over
time). Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and at other prices
away from the inside market. Due to the quantity available, there may be "gaps" in market
depth.
100241       A tradeable object is anything which may be traded. For example, a certain
quantity of the tradeable object may be bought or sold for a particular price. A tradeable
object may include, for example, financial products, stocks, options, bonds, future contracts,
currency, warrants, funds derivatives, securities, commodities, swaps, interest rate products,
index-based products, traded events, goods, or a combination thereof. A tradeable object
                                                  4

 may include a product listed and/or administered by an exchange (for example, the exchange
  130), a product defined by the user, a combination of real or synthetic products, or a
 combination thereof. There may be a synthetic tradeable object that corresponds and/or is
 similar to a real tradeable object.
 10025]       An order message is a message that includes a trade order. A trade order may be,
 for example, a command to place an order to buy or sell a tradeable object, a command to
 initiate managing orders according to a defined trading strategy, a command to change or
 cancel a previously submitted order (for example, modify a working order), an instruction to
 an electronic exchange relating to an order, or a combination thereof.
 10026]       The trading device 110 may include one or more electronic computing platforms.
 For example, the trading device 110 may include a desktop computer, hand-held device,
 laptop, server, a portable computing device, a trading terminal, an embedded trading system,
 a workstation, an algorithmic trading system such as a "black box" or "grey box" system,
 cluster of computers, or a combination thereof. As another example, the trading device 1 10
 may include a single or multi-core processor in communication with a memory or other
 storage medium configured to accessibly store one or more computer programs, applications,
 libraries, computer readable instructions, and the like, for execution by the processor.
 10027]      As used herein, the phrases "configured to" and "adapted to" encompass that an
 element, structure, or device has been modified, arranged, changed, or varied to perform a
 specific function or for a specific purpose.
 [00281       By way of example, the trading device I 10 may be implemented as a personal
 computer running a copy of X TRADER@, an electronic trading platform provided by
 Trading Technologies International, Inc. of Chicago, Illinois ("Trading Technologies"). As
 another example, the trading device 110 may be a server running a trading application
 providing automated trading tools such as ADLTM, AUTOSPREADER@, and/or
 AUTOTRADER T M, also provided by Trading Technologies. In yet another example, the
 trading device 110 may include a trading terminal in communication with a server, where
collectively the trading terminal and the server are the trading device 110.
 100291      The trading device 110 is generally owned, operated, controlled, programmed,
configured, or otherwise used by.a user. As used herein, the phrase "user" may include, but
is not limited to, a human (for example, a trader), trading group (for example, group of
                                                 5

 traders), or an electronic trading device (for example, an algorithmic trading system). One or
 more users may be involved in the ownership, operation, control, programming,
 configuration, or other use, for example.
 100301       The trading device 110 may include one or more trading applications. As used
herein, a trading application is an application that facilitates or improves electronic trading.
A trading application provides one or more electronic trading tools. For example, a trading
application stored by a trading device may be executed to arrange and display market data in
one or more trading windows. In another example, a trading application may include an
automated spread trading application providing spread trading tools. In yet another example,
a trading application may include an algorithmic trading application that automatically
processes an algorithm and performs certain actions, such as placing an order, modifying an
existing order, deleting an order. In yet another example, a trading application may provide
one or more trading screens. A trading screen may provide one or more trading tools that
allow interaction with one or more markets. For example, a trading tool may allow a user to
obtain and view market data, set order entry parameters, submit order messages to an
exchange, deploy trading algorithms, and/or monitor positions while implementing various
trading strategies. The electronic trading tools provided by the trading application may
always be available or may be available only in certain configurations or operating modes of
the trading application.
100311       A trading application may include computer readable instructions that are stored
in a computer readable medium and executable by a processor. A computer readable medium
may include various types of volatile and non-volatile storage media, including, for example,
random access memory, read-only memory, programmable read-only memory, electrically
programmable read-only memory, electrically erasable read-only memory, flash memory, any
combination thereof, or any other tangible data storage device. As used herein, the term non
transitory or tangible computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of
computer readable storage media and to exclude propagating signals.
100321       One or more components or modules of a trading application may be loaded into
the computer readable medium of the trading device 110 from another computer readable
medium. For example, the trading application (or updates to the trading application) may be
stored by a manufacturer, developer, or publisher on one or more CDs or DVDs, which are
then loaded onto the trading device 110 or to a server from which the trading device I 10
                                                  6

 retrieves the trading application. As another example, the trading device 110 may receive the
 trading application (or updates to the trading application) from a server, for example, via the
  Internet or an internal network. The trading device 110 may receive the trading application
 or updates when requested by the trading device I 10 (for example, "pull distribution") and/or
 un-requested by the trading device I 10 (for example, "push distribution").
  100331      The trading device 110 may be adapted to send order messages. For example, the
 order messages may be sent to through the gateway 120 to the exchange 130. As another
 example, the trading device 110 may be adapted to send order messages to a simulated
 exchange in a simulation environment which does not effectuate real-world trades.
 [0034]       The order messages may be sent at the request of a user. For example, a trader
 may utilize the trading device 110 to send an order message or manually input one or more
 parameters for a trade order (for example, an order price and/or quantity). As another
example, an automated trading tool provided by a trading application may calculate one or
 more parameters for a trade order and automatically send the order message. In some
 instances, an automated trading tool may prepare the order message to be sent but not
actually send it without confirmation from a user.
 [00351       An order message may be sent in one or more data packets or through a shared
memory system. For example, an order message may be sent from the trading device 110 to
the exchange 130 through the gateway 120. The trading device 110 may communicate with
the gateway 120 using a local area network, a wide area network, a wireless network, a
virtual private network, a TI line, a T3 line, an integrated services digital network ("ISDN")
line, a point-of-presence, the Internet, and/or a shared memory system, for example.
 [0036]       The gateway 120 may include one or more electronic computing platforms. For
example, the gateway 120 may implemented as one or more desktop computer, hand-held
device, laptop, server, a portable computing device, a trading terminal, an embedded trading
system, workstation with a single or multi-core processor, an algorithmic trading system such
as a "black box" or "grey box" system, cluster of computers, or any combination thereof.
[00371        The gateway 120 may facilitate communication. For example, the gateway 120
may perform protocol translation for data communicated between the trading device 110 and
the exchange 130. The gateway 120 may process an order message received from the trading
device 110 into a data format understood by the exchange 130, for example. Similarly, the
                                                 7

 gateway 120 may transform market data in an exchange-specific format received from the
 exchange 130 into a format understood by the trading device 110, for example.
 100381     The gateway 120 may include a trading application, similar to the trading
 applications discussed above, that facilitates or improves electronic trading. For example, the
gateway 120 may include a trading application that tracks orders from the trading device 110
and updates the status of the order based on fill confirmations received from the exchange
 130. As another example, the gateway 120 may include a trading application that coalesces
 market data from the exchange 130 and provides it to the trading device 1 10. In yet another
example, the gateway 120 may include a trading application that provides risk processing,
calculates implieds, handles order processing, handles market data processing, or a
combination thereof.
 [00391     In certain embodiments, the gateway 120 communicates with the exchange 130
using a local area network, a wide area network, a virtual private network, a TI line, a T3
line, an ISDN line, a point-of-presence, the Internet, and/or a shared memory system, for
example.
 100401     The exchange 130 may be owned, operated, controlled, or used by an exchange
entity. Example exchange entities include the CME Group, the London International
Financial Futures and Options Exchange, the Intercontinental Exchange, and Eurex. The
exchange 130 may include an electronic matching system, such as a computer, server, or
other computing device, which is adapted to allow tradeable objects, for example, offered for
trading by the exchange, to be bought and sold. The exchange 130 may include separate
entities, some of which list and/or administer tradeable objects and others which receive and
match orders, for example. The exchange 130 may include an electronic communication
network ("ECN"), for example.
100411      The exchange 130 may be an electronic exchange. The exchange 130 is adapted
to receive order messages and match contra-side trade orders to buy and sell tradeable
objects. Unmatched trade orders may be listed for trading by the exchange 130. The trade
orders may include trade orders received from the trading device    110 or other devices in
communication with the exchange 130, for example. For example, typically the exchange
 130 will be in communication with a variety of other trading devices (which may be similar
to trading device 1 10) which also provide trade orders to be matched.
                                                 8

 100421      The exchange 130 is adapted to provide market data. Market data may be
provided in one or more messages or data packets or through a shared memory system. For
example, the exchange 130 may publish a data feed to subscribing devices, such as the
trading device 1 10 or gateway 120. The data feed may include market data.
 100431     The system 100 may include additional, different, or fewer components. For
example, the system 100 may include multiple trading devices, gateways, and/or exchanges.
In another example, the system 100 may include other communication devices, such as
middleware, firewalls, hubs, switches, routers, servers, exchange-specific communication
equipment, modems, security managers, and/or encryption/decryption devices.
III.    EXPANDED EXAMPLE ELECTRONIC TRADING SYSTEM
100441      FIG. 2 illustrates a block diagram of another example electronic trading system
200 in which certain embodiments may be employed. In this example, a trading device 210a
is in communication with an exchange 230a through a gateway 220a. The following
discussion mainly focuses on the trading device 210a, gateway 220a, and the exchange 230a.
However, the trading device 21 Oa may also be connected to and communicate with any
number of gateways 220n connected to exchanges 230n. The communication between the
trading device I 10a and other exchanges 230n may be the same, similar, or different than the
communication between the trading device 21 Oa and exchange 230a. Generally, each
exchange has its own preferred techniques and/or formats for communicating with a trading
device, a gateway, the user, or another exchange.
[0045]      The trading device 210a, which may be similar to the trading device 110 in FIG.
1, may include a server 212a in communication with a trading terminal 214a. The server
212a may be located geographically closer to the gateway 120 than the trading terminal 214a.
As a result, the server 212a latency benefits that are not afforded to the trading terminal 214a.
In operation, the trading terminal 214a may provide a trading screen to a user and
communicate commands to the server 212a for further processing. For example, a trading
algorithm may be deployed to the server 212a for execution based on market data. The
server 212a may execute the trading algorithm without further input from the user. In another
example, the server 212a may include a trading application providing automated trading tools
and communicate back to the trading terminal 214a. The trading device 21 Oa may include,
additional, different, or fewer components. In some examples, the trading device 21 0a is a
                                                9

 mobile or portable trading device such as, for example, a hand-held device, a laptop, a tablet,
 a cell phone, a portable computing device, etc.
 10046]      The trading device 210a may communicate with the gateway 220a using one or
 more communication networks. As used herein, a communication network is any network,
 including the Internet, which facilitates or enables communication between, for example, the
trading device 21 Oa, the gateway 220a and the exchange 220a. For example, as shown in
 FIG. 2, the trading device 210a may communicate with the gateway 220a across a multicast
communication network 202a. In some examples, the network 202a is a wireless
communication network (e.g., a Wi-Fi network, a cellular or mobile network such as, for
example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network, a Personal
Communications Service (PCS) network, a Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service (D
AMPS) network, a 3G network, a 4G network, and/or any other wireless communication
network), which may be terrestrial and/or satellite based. The data on the network 202a may
be logically separated by subject (for example, prices, orders, or fills). As a result, the server
212a and trading terminal 214a can subscribe to and receive data (for example, data relating
to prices, orders, or fills) depending on their individual needs.
 100471     The gateway 220a, which- may be similar to the gateway 120 of FIG. 1, may
include a price server 222a, order server 224a, and fill server 226a. The gateway 220a may
include additional, different, or fewer components. The price server 222a may process price
data. Price data includes data related to a market for one or more tradeable objects. The
order server 224a may process order data. Order data is data related to a user's trade orders.
For example, order data may include order messages, confirmation messages, or other types
of messages. The fill server collects and provides fill data. Fill data includes data relating to
one or more fills of trade orders. For example, the fill server 226a may provide a record of
trade orders, which have been routed through the order server 224a, that have and have not
been filled. The servers 222a, 224a, 226a may run on the same machine or separate
machines.
[00481      The gateway 220a may communicate with the exchange 230a using one or more
communication networks. For example, as shown in FIG. 2, there may be two
communication networks connecting the gateway 220a and the exchange 230a. The network
204a may be used to communicate market data to the price server 222a. In some instances,
                                                 10

the exchange 230a may include this data in a data feed that is published to subscribing
devices. The network 206a may be used to communicate order data.
 100491     The exchange 230a, which may be similar to the exchange 130 of FIG. 1, may
 include an order book 232a and a matching engine 234a. The exchange 230a may include
additional, different, or fewer components. The order book 232a is a database that includes
data relating to unmatched quantity of trade orders. For example, an order book may include
data relating to a market for a tradeable object, such as the inside market, market depth at
various price levels, the last traded price, and the last traded quantity. The matching engine
234a may match contra-side bids and offers. For example, the matching engine 234a may
execute one or more matching algorithms that match contra-side bids and offers. A sell order
is contra-side to a buy order with the same price. Similarly, a buy order is contra-side to a sell
order with the same price.
 [00501      In operation, the exchange 230a may provide price data from the order book 232a
to the price server 222a and order data and/or fill data from the matching engine 234a to the
order server 224a. Servers 222a, 224a, 226a may translate and communicate this data back
to the trading device 210a. The trading device 210a, for example, using a trading application,
may process this data. For example, the data may be displayed to a user. In another example,
the data may be utilized in a trading algorithm to determine whether a trade order should be
submitted to the exchange 230a. The trading device 210a may prepare and send an order
message to the exchange 230a.
100511      In certain embodiments, the gateway 220a is part of the trading device 210a. For
example, the components of the gateway 220a may be part of the same computing platform
as the trading device 210a. As another example, the functionality of the gateway 220a may
be performed by components of the trading device 210a. In certain embodiments, the
gateway 220a is not present. Such an arrangement may occur when the trading device 210a
does not need to utilize the gateway 220a to communicate with the exchange 230a, for
example. For example, if the trading device 210a has been adapted to communicate directly
with the exchange 230a.
10052]      Additional trading devices 210b - 21 0e, which are similar to trading device 21 0a,
may be connected to one or more of the gateways 220a - 220n and exchanges 230a - 230n.
Furthermore, additional gateways, similar to the gateway 220a, may be in communication
with multiple exchanges, similar to the exchange 230a. Each gateway may be in

 communication with one or more different exchanges, for example. Such an arrangement
 may, for example, allow one or more trading devices 210a to trade at more than one exchange
 (and/or provide redundant connections to multiple exchanges).
 IV.     EXAMPLE COMPUTING DEVICE
 [00531     FIG. 3 illustrates a block diagram of an example computing device 300 which
 may be used to implement the disclosed embodiments. The trading device 110 of FIG. I may
 include one or more computing devices 300, for example. Thus, in some examples, the
computing device 300 is mobile or portable. The gateway 120 of FIG. I may include one or
 more computing devices 300, for example. The exchange 130 of FIG. I may include one or
 more computing devices 300, for example.
 100541     The computing device 300 includes a communication network 310, a processor
312, a memory 314, an interface 316, an input device 318, and an output device 320. The
computing device 300 may include additional, different, or fewer components. For example,
multiple communication networks, multiple processors, multiple memory, multiple
interfaces, multiple input devices, multiple output devices, or any combination thereof, may
be provided. As another example, the computing device 300 may not include an input device
318 or output device 320.
 100551     As shown in FIG. 3, the computing device 300 may include a processor 312
coupled to a communication network 310. The communication network 310 may include a
communication bus, channel, electrical or optical network, circuit, switch, fabric, or other
mechanism for communicating data between components in the computing device 300. The
communication network 310 may be communicatively coupled with and transfer data
between any of the components of the computing device 300.
100561      The processor 312 may be any suitable processor, processing unit, or
microprocessor. The processor 312 may include one or more general processors, digital
signal processors, application specific integrated circuits, field programmable gate arrays,
analog circuits, digital circuits, programmed processors, and/or combinations thereof, for
example. The processor 312 may be a single device or a combination of devices, such as one
or more devices associated with a network or distributed processing. Any processing strategy
may be used, such as multi-processing, multi-tasking, parallel processing, and/or remote
processing. Processing may be local or remote and may be moved from one processor to
                                                12

another processor. In certain embodiments, the computing device 300 is a multi-processor
 system and, thus, may include one or more additional processors which are communicatively
coupled to the communication network 310.
 100571      The processor 312 may be operable to execute logic and other computer readable
 instructions encoded in one or more tangible media, such as the memory 314. As used
herein, logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes instructions which may be
executable by the processor 312 or a different processor. The logic may be stored as part of
software, hardware, integrated circuits, firmware, and/or micro-code, for example. The logic
may be received from an external communication device via a communication network such
as the network 340. The processor 312 may execute the logic to perform the functions, acts,
or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein.
 10058]      The memory 314 may be one or more tangible media, such as computer readable
storage media, for example. Computer readable storage media may include various types of
volatile and non-volatile storage media, including, for example, random access memory,
read-only memory, programmable read-only memory, electrically programmable read-only
memory, electrically erasable read-only memory, flash memory, any combination thereof, or
any other tangible data storage device. As used herein, the term non-transitory or tangible
computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable
medium and to exclude propagating signals. The memory 314 may include any desired type
of mass storage device including hard disk drives, optical media, magnetic tape or disk, etc.
[0059]       The memory 314 may include one or more memory devices. For example, the
memory 314 may include local memory, a mass storage device, volatile memory, non
volatile memory, or a combination thereof. The memory 314 may be adjacent to, part of,
programmed with, networked with, and/or remote from processor 312, so the data stored in
the memory 314 may be retrieved and processed by the processor 312, for example. The
memory 314 may store instructions which are executable by the processor 312. The
instructions may be executed to perform one or more of the acts or functions described herein
or shown in the figures.
100601      The memory 314 may store a trading application 330. In certain embodiments,
the trading application 330 may be accessed from or stored in different locations. The
processor 312 may access the trading application 330 stored in the memory 314 and execute
computer-readable instructions included in the trading application 330.
                                                 13

100611       In certain embodiments, during an installation process, the trading application
may be transferred from the input device 318 and/or the network 340 to the memory 314.
When the computing device 300 is running or preparing to run the trading application 330,
the processor 312 may retrieve the instructions from the memory 314 via the communication
network 310.
V.      MITIGATING COMMUNICATION RISKS
[00621       Example methods to mitigate a communication risk in an electronic trading
system are disclosed herein. When a user employs a mobile or portable trading device to
communicate with an exchange, a communication link is established between the mobile
trading device and a gateway, which provides access to one or more markets at the exchange.
The communication link enables the mobile trading device to interact with the gateway. For
example, the communication link provides a channel for communication of messages
between the mobile device and the gateway via wireless signals of a wireless communication
network.
100631       Communication via the mobile trading device may be affected by one or more
communication conditions. The communication conditions are functions, characteristics,
and/or attributes of the-mobile trading device, the gateway, and/or the wireless
communication network that enable, affect, and/or support communication between the
mobile trading device and the exchange via the communication link. The communication
conditions include, for example, a strength of the signal of the wireless communication
network received via the mobile trading device (e.g., a connectivity level of the mobile
trading device), and latency at a gateway server. A qualitative and/or quantitative
measurement, value, and/or status of a communication condition is a state of the
communication condition ("a communication state"). If the communication state deteriorates
below a mimimum threshold state, the communication between the mobile trading device and
the exchange may be interrupted (e.g., delayed, incomplete, and/or substantially impaired).
Thus, the communication state reflects an ability of the mobile trading device to
communicate with the exchange via the communication link.
100641      Certain examples disclosed herein monitor the communication link established
between the mobile trading device and a gateway. For example, the mobile trading device
may measure a strength of the signal of the wireless communication network received by the
mobile trading device. The examples may also include determining a communication state
                                               14

 related to the communication link (e.g., a connectivity level of the mobile trading device
 relative to a maximum possible connectivity level).
 100651       In some examples, a communication risk threshold is set (e.g., by a user,
 automatically by a trading application, etc.). In some examples, the communication risk
threshold is a predetermined state of a communication condition at which a given amount of
 risk is present that the communication between the mobile trading device and the exchange
will be interrupted. If the communication state falls below the communication risk threshold,
a risk mitigation action may be initiated at the mobile trading device. The risk mitigation
action is any action mitigating or performed to mitigate a risk of a market position not closing
due to an interruption in the communication link established between the mobile trading
device and the exchange. Example risk mitigation actions include generating an alert or
warning by the mobile device and providing the alert or warning to a user to indicate that the
mobile trading device may not be capable of closing an open market position; executing
instructions stored at the gateway to enable the user to get flat in the market position; and
uploading or communicating instructions stored on the mobile trading device to the gateway
for execution in the event that communications are interrupted. The above-noted risk
mitigation actions are merely examples and, thus, other risk mitigation actions may be
performed without departing from the scope of this disclosure.
100661       Certain examples disclosed herein determine the communication state based on a
location of the mobile trading device. In some examples, the mobile trading device is
associated with the communication state based on a map. In some examples, the map
includes areas that are associated with communication states. In some examples, the map is
generated and/or updated based on communication states communicated via a plurality of
other mobile trading devices located in the areas. If the mobile trading device is located in
one of the areas, the mobile trading device may be associated with the communication state
associated with that area.
100671       As described in conjunction with FIG. 2 above, the example trading device 21 Oa
may be a mobile or portable trading device such as, for example, a hand-held device, a
laptop, a tablet, a cell phone, a portable computing device, etc. In some such examples, the
network 202a is a wireless communication network (e.g., a Wi-Fi network, a cellular or
mobile network such as, for example, a Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
network, a Personal Communications Service (PCS) network, a Digital Advanced Mobile
                                                15

Phone Service (D-AMPS) network, a 3G network, a 4G network, and/or any other wireless
communication network), which may be terrestrial and/or satellite based.
100681        When the trading device 21 Oa is in communication with the gateway 220a, a
communication link is established between the gateway 220a and the trading device 210a via
the network 202a. The communication link enables the trading device 210a to interact with
the gateway 220a, for example, via signals wirelessly communicated via the network 202a.
In some examples, the communication link is established when, via the communication link,
the trading device 21 Oa is capable of communicating with the gateway 220a, and/or the
gateway 220a is capable of responding to instructions communicated to the gateway 21 Oa via
the trading device 210a.
100691       One or more communication conditions of the trading device 210a and/or the
gateway 220a are related to the communication link. The communication conditions are
functions, characteristics, and/or attributes of the trading device 210a, the gateway 220a,
and/or the network 202a that enable, affect, and/or support communication between the
trading device 210a and the exchange 230a via the communication link. The communication
conditions include, for example, a strength of the signal of network 202a received by the
trading device 220a (e.g., a connectivity level of the trading device 210a), a remaining battery
life of the trading device 210a, latency at the gateway 220a, an amount of memory utilization
of the trading device 210a and/or the gateway 210a, a CPU load at the gateway 220a, and/or
other communication condition(s).
100701       A qualitative and/or quantitative measurement, value, and/or status of a
communication condition is a state of the communication condition ("a communication
state"). The state of each of the communication conditions reflects an ability of the trading
device 210a to communicate with the exchange 230a. If the state of a communication
condition reaches or falls below a minimum threshold state, the communication between the
trading device 210a and the exchange 230a may be interrupted (e.g., delayed, incomplete,
and/or substantially impaired). If a market position is open when the state of the
communication condition is at or below the minimum threshold state, the market position
may not be able to be closed via the trading device 21 Oa. For example, the minimum
threshold state may include a lack of remaining battery life of the trading device 210a,
insufficient connectivity, and/or other communication condition that may prevent or delay the
trading device 21 Oa from communicating instructions to the gateway 220a to close the market
                                                 16

 position. Thus, a deterioration of the state of the communication condition may present
 and/or increase a risk of a market position not closing due to an interruption in
 communication between the trading device 210a and the exchange 230a. A failure to close a
 market position can, for example, result in a loss of money, a lost opportunity, and an
 incorrect trade.
 100711       To mitigate the risk, a risk mitigation action is initiated if the communication state
 falls below a communication risk threshold (e.g., below a threshold state). In some examples,
the communication risk threshold is a predetermined state of a communication condition at
 which a given amount of risk is present that the communication between the trading device
 220a and the exchange 230a will be interrupted. In some examples, the communication risk
threshold corresponds to the minimum threshold state (e.g., a state of a communication
condition at which the communication between the trading device 210a and the gateway 220a
 is interrupted). In other examples, the communication risk threshold corresponds to a state of
the communication condition above the minimum threshold state (e.g., a state at which the
trading device 210a is capable of communicating with the gateway 220a via the network
202a) to enable, for example, the trading device 220a to communicate instructions to the
gateway 220a to perform one or more risk mitigation actions.
 100721      The risk mitigation action is any action mitigating or performed via the trading
device 21 Oa and/or the gateway 220a to mitigate a risk of a market position not closing due to
an interruption in the communication link established between the trading device 210a and
the exchange 230a. In some examples, the risk mitigation action includes executing
instructions stored at the gateway 220a to enable a user to get flat in a market position (e.g.,
communicate with the exchange 230a to perform a transaction, reject a trade message, etc. to
prevent the user from having a surplus or deficit of a commodity), providing a message (e.g.,
an alert, a warning, a prompt) to the user, and/or performing any other risk mitigation action.
In some examples, the risk mitigation action includes preventing a position from being
opened via the trading device 21 Oa.
100731       For example, the communication link between the trading device 210a and the
gateway 220a may be monitored by measuring the connectivity at the trading device 210a
(e.g., substantially continuously, at predetermined intervals of time, based on a location of the
trading device 210a as described in more detail in conjunction with FIG. 4 below, etc.). In
some examples, the communication risk threshold may be set at a given percentage of a
                                                   17

maximum possible signal strength to be received by the trading device 210a. If the trading
device 21 0a detects a signal having a strength at or below the given percentage, a risk
mitigation action stored at the trading device 210a and/or gateway 220a is initiated. For
example, the risk mitigation action may include providing an alert indicating that a market
position may not be capable of being closing via the trading device 21 0a, executing
instructions stored at the gateway 220a to enable a user to get flat in a market position, etc.
100741       FIG. 4 illustrates an example area 400 in which the trading device 210a may be
located. In the illustrated example, the area 400 includes a plurality of zones 402, 404, 406,
408, 410. Each of the example zones 402, 404, 406, 408, 410 defines a geographic region as
a function of a communication condition evaluated with respect to the trading device 21 Oa.
In the illustrated example, the communication condition is a connectivity level of the trading
device 21 0a to the network 202a. For example, Zone A 402 is associated with no
connectivity; Zone B 404 is associated with intermittent connectivity; Zone C 406 is
associated with high connectivity, etc. In other examples, the zones 402, 404, 406, 408, 410
are associated with other states and/or communication conditions such as the signal-to-noise
ratio, and the type of network available. The example zones 402, 404, 406, 408, 410 may
correspond to buildings, streets, cities, areas defined by global positioning system ("GPS")
coordinates, and/or any other type of area.
[00751       In the illustrated example of FIG. 4, a state of a communication condition is
determined based on a location of the trading device 210a. In some examples, the trading
device 21 Oa determines its location via a GPS tracking device and/or with respect to another
device. If the trading device 210a is located in one of the zones 402, 404, 406, 408, 410, the
trading device 210a is associated with a state of the communication condition (e.g., a
connectivity level) of the zone 402, 404, 406, 408, 410 in which the trading device 210a is
located. For example, if the trading device 210a determines that it is located in Zone D 408,
the trading device 210a is associated with the communication state that is associated with
Zone D 408: medium connectivity. If medium connectivity is at or below the communication
risk threshold, a risk mitigation action is initiated. In some examples, if the trading device
210a is within a predetermined distance (e.g., five hundred feet) from a zone associated with
a communication state at or below the communication risk threshold, the risk mitigation
action is initiated. For example, a message (e.g., an alert, a warning, etc.) may be provided
via the trading device 210a indicating that the trading device 210a is located near the zone
associated with the communication state at or below the communication risk threshold.
                                                   18

100761       In the illustrated example, a map is generated (e.g., the zones 402, 404, 406, 408,
410 are determined and/or associated with the communication conditions) based on
communication states and trading device locations communicated by a plurality of mobile
trading devices including the trading device 210a and other mobile trading devices. For
example, each of the mobile trading devices monitors a communication state and its location
and communicates the communication state and its location to a central location such as, for
example, the gateway 220a. Based on the communication states and the locations, a host
generates and/or updates the map. In some examples, the map includes a table, a matrix,
and/or a database, etc. that includes the communication states and the device locations. In
some examples, the map includes a graphical representation of a given area. The map may be
communicated to the mobile trading devices to enable the mobile trading devices to assess
communication risks (e.g., compare the communication state with a communication risk
threshold) based on their locations and the map.
[00771      FIG. 5 illustrates an example method 500 to mitigate a communication risk in an
electronic trading system. The example method 500 may be performed by any mobile
trading device (e.g., the trading device 110 of FIG. 1, the trading device 210a of FIG. 2, etc.)
and/or gateway (e.g., the gateway 120 of FIG. 1, the gateway 220a of FIG. 2, the gateway
220n of FIG. 2, etc.). The example method 500 begins by monitoring a communication link
established between a mobile trading device and a gateway (block 502). In some examples,
the communication link is monitored by evaluating a communication condition of mobile
trading device such as, for example, a connectivity level of the mobile trading device with a
wireless communication network. In some examples, the communication link is monitored
by evaluating a location of the mobile trading device. In some examples, the communication
condition monitored includes a remaining battery life of the mobile trading device, a memory
utilization of the mobile trading device, and/or any other communication condition(s) of the
mobile trading device. In some examples, the communication link is monitored my
evaluating a communication condition of the gateway such as, for example, latency at the
gateway 220a, an amount of memory utilization of the gateway 210a, a CPU load at the
gateway 220a, and/or any other communication condition(s). In some examples, more than
one communication condition of the mobile trading device and/or the gateway is monitored.
100781      A communication state related to the communication link and reflecting an ability
of the mobile trading device to communicate with an exchange is determined (block 504).
For example, the communication state may include a measured connectivity of the mobile
                                                 19

 trading device relative to a maximum possible connectivity, an estimated time remaining in a
 life of a battery of the mobile trading device, a percentage of available memory being used at
 the gateway, etc. In some examples, the communication state is determined based on a
 location of the mobile trading device. For example, if the mobile trading device is located in
 Zone D 408 of FIG. 4, the communication state is determined to be the communication state
 associated with Zone D 408: medium connectivity.
 [00791       The communication state is compared to a communication risk threshold (block
 506). For example, the communication risk threshold may be a predetermined
 communication state such as, for example, medium connectivity, a remaining ten percent of
 battery life of the mobile trading device, a given latency at the gateway, and/or any other
 desired communication risk threshold. If the communication state is below the
 communication risk threshold (block 508), a risk mitigation action is initiated (block 510). In
 some examples, the risk mitigation action is initiated at the gateway. For example,
 instructions stored at the gateway may be executed to enable a market position taken by a
 user of the mobile trading device to go flat, the gateway may prevent a market position from
 being opened via the mobile trading device, etc. In other examples, additionally or
alternatively, a risk mitigation action is initiated at the mobile trading device. For example,
the mobile.trading device~mayjgeneraterand/or display an alert or warning indicating that the
communication state fell below the communication risk threshold, a trading application may
prevent a market position from being opened via the mobile trading device, etc. If the
communication state has not fallen below the communication risk threshold, the example
method returns to block 502.
 100801       FIG. 6 illustrates another example method 600 to mitigate a communication risk
in an electronic trading system. The example method 600 may be performed by any mobile
or portable trading device (e.g., the trading device 110 of FIG. 1, the trading device 210a of
FIG. 2, etc.) and/or gateway (e.g., the gateway 120 of FIG. 1, the gateway 220a of FIG. 2, the
gateway 220n of FIG. 2, etc.). The example method 600 of FIG. 6 begins by determining a
state of a communication condition related to a communication link established between a
mobile trading device and a gateway (block 602). In some examples, the mobile trading
device and/or the gateway monitors one or more communication conditions such as, for
example, a connectivity level of the mobile trading device, a remaining battery life of the
trading device 210a, latency at the gateway 220a, an amount of memory utilization of the
                                                  20

trading device 21 Oa and/or the gateway 21 Oa, a CPU load at the gateway 220a, and/or other
communication condition(s).
 100811       The example method 600 determines if the state is at or below a predetermined
threshold state (block 604). If the state is above the predetermined threshold state (e.g., a
state corresponding to a communication risk threshold), opening a market position via the
mobile trading device is enabled (block 606), and the example method returns to block 602.
 If the state is at or below the predetermined threshold state, the example method 600
determines if a market position taken via the mobile trading device is open (block 608). In
some examples, whether or not the market position is open (or unfilled) is determined via an
application stored on the mobile trading device. In other examples, whether or not the market
position is open is determined via the gateway. If no market position is open, market
positions are prevented from being opened via the mobile trading device (block 610). For
example, a trading application stored on the mobile trading device prevents the market
position from being opened, one or more applications stored on the gateway prevents the
market position from being opened via the mobile trading device, etc. The example method
then returns to block 602.
[0082]        If a market position taken via the mobile trading device is open, an action is
initiated to enable a user to get flat in the position (block 612). For example, a trade message
may be accepted via the gateway to prevent a user from having a surplus or deficit of a
commodity. In other examples, additionally or alternatively, one or more other risk
mitigation actions stored at the gateway and/or the mobile trading device is initiated (e.g., an
alert is provided via the mobile trading device, etc.). FIG. 7 illustrates another example
method 700 to mitigate a communication risk in an electronic trading system. The example
method 700 may be performed by any mobile trading device (e.g., the trading device I 10 of
FIG. 1, the trading device 210a of FIG. 2, etc.) and/or gateway (e.g., the gateway 120 of FIG.
1, the gateway 220a of FIG. 2, the gateway 220n of FIG. 2, etc.). FIG. 7 begins by
determining a location of a mobile trading device (block 702). In some examples, the mobile
trading device includes a tracking device such as, for example, a GPS tracking device, and
the mobile trading device determines its position via the tracking device.
[00831        The mobile trading device is associated with a communication state based on the
location (block 704). In some examples, a map is generated and/or updated at a central
location (e.g., the gateway, a host on a wireless communications network, etc.) based on
                                                  21

communication states and mobile trading device positions communicated to the central
location by a plurality of mobile trading devices. The map may associate an area with a
communication state. In some examples, the central location communicates the map to the
mobile trading device. If the mobile trading device is located in an area covered by the map,
the communication state associated with the mobile trading device is determined to be the
communication state associated with the area in which the mobile trading device is located.
For example, if the mobile trading device is located in a location corresponding to Zone B
404 of FIG. 4, the mobile trading device is associated with the communication state
intermittent connectivity.
[00841       The communication state is compared to a communication risk threshold (block
706). If the communication state is below the communication risk threshold, (block 708), a
risk mitigation action is initiated (block 710). For example, if the communication risk
threshold is set at medium connectivity and the communication state is determined to be low
connectivity, the risk mitigation action is initiated. In some examples, the risk mitigation
action is initiated at the gateway. For example, instructions stored at the gateway may be
executed to enable a user to get flat in a market position. In other examples, the risk
mitigation action is initiated at the mobile trading device. For example, the mobile trading
device may generate and/or display an alrt indicating that the communication state fell
below the communication risk threshold, and/or a trading application stored on the mobile
trading device may prevent a market position from being opened via the mobile trading
device. In some examples, instructions stored on the mobile trading device are uploaded or
communicated to the gateway for execution in the event that communications are disrupted.
The example method 700 then returns to block 702. If the communication state has not fallen
below the communication risk threshold as determined at block 708, the example method 700
returns to block 702.
100851       FIG. 8 is a block diagram of an example system 800 that may implement and/or
execute the example operations of FIGS. 5-7. In some examples, the system 800 may be
implemented as part of software (or an application) associated with the trading device 110 of
FIG. 1, the trading device 220a of FIG. 2, gateway 120 of FIG. 1, the gateway 220a of FIG. 2
and/or the gateway 220n of FIG. 2. In some examples, the system 800 may be implemented
as computer implemented code or instructions operable independent of software associated
with the trading device 110, the trading device 220a, the gateway 120, the gateway 220a
and/or the gateway 220n. In some examples, the features and functionality of the system 800
                                                 22

 may be implemented in hardware operable in connection with the trading device 1 10, the
trading device 220a, the gateway 120, the gateway 220a and/or the gateway 220n.
 100861      The example system 800 of FIG. 8 includes a communication link monitoring
module 802 to monitor a communication link established between a mobile trading device
and a gateway in communication with an exchange. For example, the communication link
monitoring module 802 may monitor the communication link by monitoring a
communication condition of the mobile trading device, the gateway and/or a wireless
communication network such as a connectivity level of the mobile trading device with the
wireless communication network (e.g., the network 202a), a remaining battery life of the
mobile trading device, a latency of one or more servers at the gateway, an amount of memory
being utilized by the gateway, etc. In some examples, the communication link monitoring
module 802 monitors the communication link by monitoring a location of the mobile trading
device. In the illustrated example, the communication link monitoring module 802 includes a
location determining module 804 to determine a location of the mobile trading device.
 (00871     The example system 800 of FIG. 8 includes a communication state determining
module 806. In some examples, the communication state determining module 806
determines-a state of the communication-condition by making, evaluating and/or determining
a qualitative and/or quantitative measurement, value and/or status of the communication
condition. Some example communication states include a connectivity level relative to a
maximum possible connectivity level, an estimated amount of time remaining in a life of a
battery of the mobile trading device, a percentage of total available memory being used by a
server at the gateway, etc. In some examples, the communication state determining module
806 determines the communication state based on the location of the mobile trading device
determined via the location determining module 804 and a map generated via a map
generating module 808.
[00881      The map generating module 808 receives mobile trading device locations and
communication states from a plurality of mobile trading devices. In some examples, the
location determining module 804 communicates a location of the mobile trading device to the
map generating module 808, and the communication state determining module 806
communicates a communication state to the map generating module 808. The map
generating module 808 may associate the communication state with the location. Based on
the location and the communication state, the map generating module 808 generates and/or
                                               23

 updates a map in which an area is associated with the communication state. In some
examples, the map includes a plurality of areas associated with a plurality of communication
states. If the mobile trading device is located in one of the areas, the communication state
determining module 806 associates the mobile trading device with the communication state
associated with the area.
 100891      The example system 800 includes a communication risk assessing module 810 to
determine if the communication state is below a communication risk threshold, which may be
set by a user or a trading application. In some examples, the communication risk threshold
corresponds to a minimum threshold state at which communication between mobile trading
device and the gateway is interrupted (e.g., delayed, incomplete, and/or substantially
 impaired). In other examples, the communication risk threshold corresponds to a state of the
communication condition above the minimum threshold state.
 100901      In the illustrated example, a risk mitigation action initiating module 812 of the
example system 800 of FIG. 8 initiates a risk mitigation action if the communication state is
below the communication risk threshold. In some examples, a type of risk mitigation action
performed is based on whether a market position taken via the mobile trading device is open.
A market position monitoring module 814 of the example system 800 of FIG. 8 monitors
market positions taken via the mobile trading device. If a market position has been taken, the
market position monitoring module 814 determines if the market position is open. In some
examples, if the market position is open, the risk mitigation action initiating module 812
initiates one or more actions to enable a user of the mobile trading device to get flat in the
market position. In some examples, if the market position is not open, the risk mitigation
action initiating module 812 prevents any positions from being opened via the mobile trading
device (e.g., until the communication state returns to a state above the risk communication
threshold). In some examples, additionally or alternatively, the risk mitigation action
initiating module 812 performs one or more other actions such as, for example, providing an
alert or warning to the user.
100911       Some of the described figures depict example block diagrams, systems, and/or
flow diagrams representative of methods that may be used to implement all or part of certain
embodiments. One or more of the components, elements, blocks, and/or functionality of the
example block diagrams, systems, and/or flow diagrams may be implemented alone or in
combination in hardware, firmware, discrete logic, as a set of computer readable instructions
                                                 24

stored on a tangible computer readable medium, and/or any combinations thereof, for
example.
 [00921     The example block diagrams, systems, and/or flow diagrams may be implemented
using any combination of application specific integrated circuit(s) (ASIC(s)), programmable
 logic device(s) (PLD(s)), field programmable logic device(s) (FPLD(s)), discrete logic,
hardware, and/or firmware, for example. Also, some or all of the example methods may be
 implemented manually or in combination with the foregoing techniques, for example.
 [0093]     The example block diagrams, systems, and/or flow diagrams may be performed
using one or more processors, controllers, and/or other processing devices, for example. For
example, the examples may be implemented using coded instructions, for example, computer
readable instructions, stored on a tangible computer readable medium. A tangible computer
readable medium may include various types of volatile and non-volatile storage media,
including, for example, random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM),
programmable read-only memory (PROM), electrically programmable read-only memory
(EPROM), electrically erasable read-only memory (EEPROM), flash memory, a hard disk
drive, optical media, magnetic tape, a file server, any other tangible data storage device, or
any combination thereof. The tangible computer readable medium is non-transitory.
100941      Further, although the example block diagrams, systems, and/or flow diagrams are
described above with reference to the figures, other implementations may be employed. For
example, the order of execution of the components, elements, blocks, and/or functionality
may be changed and/or some of the components, elements, blocks, and/or functionality
described may be changed, eliminated, sub-divided, or combined. Additionally, any or all of
the components, elements, blocks, and/or functionality may be performed sequentially and/or
in parallel by, for example, separate processing threads, processors, devices, discrete logic,
and/or circuits.
[00951      While embodiments have been disclosed, various changes may be made and
equivalents may be substituted. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a
particular situation or material. Therefore, it is intended that the disclosed technology not be
limited to the particular embodiments disclosed, but will include all embodiments falling
within the scope of the appended claims.
                                                 25

[00961      In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or
similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements
solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
[00971      This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
<removed-apn>. The full disclosure of AU<removed-apn> is incorporated herein by
reference.
                                            26

                                             CLAIMS
1.       A method for communicating with an electronic exchange, the method comprising:
         establishing, via a gateway, a communication link between a mobile trading device
and a gateway device to provide access for the mobile trading device to one or more markets
at the exchange, where the gateway device communicates order messages between the
mobile trading device and an electronic exchange;
         storing, via the gateway, a risk mitigation action;
         monitoring, via the gateway, the communication link to determine a communication
state reflecting an ability of the mobile trading device to electronically communicate with the
electronic exchange via the communication link;
         monitoring, via the gateway, a position of a user of the mobile trading device based
on the communication of the order messages between the mobile trading device and the
electronic exchange;
         comparing, via the gateway, the communication state to a communication risk
threshold; and
         in response to determining that both the communication state is less than a
communication risk threshold and that the user of the mobile trading device has an open
market position, initiating, via the gateway, the risk mitigation action including executing
instructions to communicate an order message from the gateway to the exchange to flatten
the open market position of the user of the mobile trading device.
2.       The method of claim 1 wherein the risk mitigation action further comprises providing
an alert.
3.       The method of claim 1 or 2 further comprising receiving the communication risk
threshold from the user.
4.       The method of any preceding claim wherein comparing the communication state to a
communication risk threshold includes determining a signal strength via the mobile trading
device.
                                                27

5.      The method of any preceding claim wherein comparing the communication state
includes determining a remaining battery life of the mobile trading device.
6.      The method of any preceding claim wherein comparing the communication state
includes determining an amount of memory being utilized by the gateway.
7.      The method of any preceding claim further comprising:
        associating the communication state with a location of the mobile trading device; and
        communicate the communication state and the location to enable a map to be
updated.
8.       The method of any preceding claim further comprising:
        determining a location of the mobile trading device; and
        determining the state associated with the location.
                                              28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
