                                                            ABSTRACT
            A system for analyzing an unknown geological sample, the system comprising:
            at    least two        analytical     subsystems including a near-infrared spectral-analysis
subsystem and at least one other analytical subsystem, each of the at least two analytical
subsystems providing different information about the geological sample;
            a data collection component to collect and combine the different information from
each analytical subsystem to create combined analytical information;
            a chemometric calibration database that includes records that relate geological
attributes to data previously generated with at least two analytical systems that are the same
types of systems as the at least two analytical subsystems; and
            a prediction engine that applies the records in the chemometric calibration database
to the combined analytical information to identify specific geological attributes in the
unknown geological sample.
H:\der\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\16624438_1.doc - 19/3/18

                            1/6
                               102
  NIR   XRF       RAMAN            FTIR  ICP
SPECT SPECTRA    SPECTRA        SPECTRA DATA
                       CHEMOMETRIC
      CHEMHEALMETRIC       MODEL
                         GENERATOR
                             106
                        CALIBRATION
                           MODEL
                             108
                          FIG. 1

             MULTI-SENSOR ANALYSIS OF COMPLEX GEOLOGIC MATERIALS
   [0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013323430,
      and is entitled to priority from US Provisional Application No. 61/705,760 entitled
      "SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MULTIVARIATE CALIBRATION USING MULTI-SENSOR
      DATA" filed 26 September 2012, the originally filed specifications of which are
      incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]     The   present invention      relates to   improving the    quality and    quantity of
      information that can be obtained from geological samples. In particular, but not by
      way of limitation, the present invention relates to systems and methods using multi
      sensor data streams for obtaining improved qualitative and quantitative information
      on ore properties that can allow for efficient mine planning and mining related
      operations.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0003]     Characterization    of   minerals    is  a   complex   task,   which    may     include
      measurement of elemental composition, mineralogy, lithology, hardness, and various
      other chemical or physical parameters. In the context of mining operations for
      example, mining     companies      require   knowledge   of ore   properties   for both mine
      planning    and operations.     Ore mineralogy has a strong influence on cost and
      efficiency of metal extraction. Ore metallurgical properties also affect the behavior of
      the ore in processing steps such as crushing, concentration, and extraction.
   [0004]     In a typical ore analysis system, only one analytic data stream is used to
      predict or measure a parameter.           Near-Infrared (NIR) spectroscopy is a molecular
      technique and has been used for qualitative and quantitative determination of mineral
      content and for certain metallurgical response parameters.            X-ray fluorescence is
      typically used to produce a measurement of elemental parameters.              Similarly, laser
      induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) is another method that provides an elemental
      analysis.    Raman    spectroscopy,      Fourier  Transform   Infrared    (FT-IR)   and     NIR
      spectroscopy are molecular techniques and are used for qualitative estimation of
      some mineral types. Although NIR, FT-IR and Raman spectroscopic techniques have
      been used for qualitative estimation of minerals, each is useful for a different set of
      minerals. While any given analytical technique may be able to provide a subset of
      the required information, in many cases the accuracy and precision of that single
                                                  1

     analytical technique may be less than optimal. Accordingly, a system and method are
     needed to address the shortfalls of present technology and improve the quality and
     quantity of information      required for efficient mine planning and      mining related
     operations.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0005]     Aspects of the present invention include a method for analyzing an unknown
     geological sample. The method includes obtaining an unknown geological sample and
     analyzing the unknown geological sample with at least two analytic subsystems to
     obtain two sets of analytic data. The two sets of analytic data are then combined into
     a single dataset, and attributes of the unknown geological sample are identified by
     applying a chemometric calibration model to the combined data to predict geological
     attributes of the sample.
  [0006]      Other aspects include a system for analyzing an unknown geological sample.
     The system includes at least two analytic subsystems that include a near-infrared
     analysis subsystem and at least one other analytic subsystem.         Each of the at least
     two   analytic   subsystems    provide  different compositional   information  about   the
     geological sample.     The system also includes a previously generated chemometric
     calibration model based on a database that includes records with combined data from
     multiple analytic systems that describes geological attributes with this analytic data. A
     prediction engine utilizes the chemometric model that was based on the records in the
     chemometric database to predict the composition of the geological attribute.
  [0007]     Yet other aspects include a non-transitory, tangible processor readable storage
     medium,     encoded with processor readable instructions to perform a method for
     analyzing an unknown geological sample. The method includes obtaining an unknown
     geological sample and analyzing the unknown geological sample with at least two
     analytic subsystems to obtain two sets of analytical data.     The two sets of analytical
     data are collected into a combined dataset, and attributes of the unknown sample are
     identified by applying a chemometric calibration model to the combined data to predict
     geological attributes of the sample.
  [0008]      Exemplary embodiments of the present invention that are presented are
     summarized below.      These and other embodiments are more fully described in the
     Detailed Description section.      It is to be understood, however, that there is no
     intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the
     Invention or in the Detailed Description.      One skilled in the art can recognize that
     there are numerous modifications, equivalents and alternative constructions that fall
                                                2

      within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0009]     Various objects and advantages and a more complete understanding of the
      present invention are apparent and more readily appreciated by reference to the
      following Detailed Description and to the appended claims when taken in conjunction
      with the accompanying drawing wherein:
   [0010]     FIGURE    1 is a diagram depicting an exemplary system for generating a
      chemometric calibration model;
   [0011]     FIGURE 2 is a diagram depicting an exemplary system for predicting attributes
      of an unknown sample using the chemometric calibration model generated in FIGURE
      1;
   [0012]     FIGURE    3 is a flowchart depicting a method that may be traversed in
      connection with the embodiment depicted in FIG. 2;
   [0013]     FIGURE 4 is a diagram depicting another embodiment in which two or more
      analytical technologies are integrated in a single unit;
   [0014]     FIGURE    5   illustrates  a  summary    of  the   different   parameters  of  the
      calibration model generated using NIR spectra alone, ICP-AES data alone, and using a
      combination of      NIR spectra     and ICP-AES   data for different minerals and one
      metallurgical property; and
   [0015]     FIGURE 6 is block diagram depicting physical components that may be utilized
      in connection with realizing components disclosed herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0016]     Several embodiments disclosed herein provide a method for addressing the
      need for obtaining       improved geological property information       by combining data
      streams and/or results from multiple sensors, such as X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray
      fluorescence (XRF), Raman, Fouier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, laser
      induced breakdown         spectroscopy (LIBS),  Quantitative    Evaluation of Minerals  by
      SCANing electron microscopy (QEMSCAN),          whole rock chemistry and near infrared
      (NIR) into a single multivariate calibration model.        For example, NIR, FT-IR and
      Raman are used to analyze minerals, but each is best suited to a somewhat different
      list of mineral species.      Thus the combination of NIR, FT-IR and Raman sensors is
      useful together to produce better qualitative and quantitative results.
   [0017]     As discussed above, NIR works well with a wide range of sample preparation
      approaches. Hence NIR spectra obtained from an NIR spectrometer is combined with
                                                3

   data from "whole rock" mineral assays (which are essentially elemental analysis data
   similar to those produced by XRF instrumentation)          or other forms of elemental
   analysis into a single data matrix for improved chemometric data analysis and
   calibration development.
[0018]      In the NIR region many important minerals related to the geologic conditions
   that are indicative of mineralization (deposit of metal) can be detected. Thus, NIR
   analytical techniques generally     have   high utility  in connection   with measuring
   alteration minerals. These minerals result from alteration of the host rock and are
   often pathfinders for mineralization (presence of valuable metals). While the NIR
   region is sensitive to most alteration minerals, it lacks sensitive to many rock-forming
   minerals and sulfide minerals, Knowledge of elemental composition can assist in the
   identification of these minerals, but NIR is a molecular technique. Thus the need often
   arises to utilize an additional technique to measure the elemental composition of the
   minerals, such as with Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectroscopy
   (ICP-OES) analysis, Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP
   AES), Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS), X-ray Fluorescence
   spectroscopy (XRF) or via various chemical analyses. Additionally, the NIR region is
   not ideal for measurement of many rock-forming minerals, thus the addition of either
   Raman or Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy is often separately used.
   Additional chemical or physical tests may also be used to provide a measure of the
   metallurgical processing parameters of the materials.
[0019]      FT-IR analytical techniques typically have utility for measurement of rock
   forming minerals, and less utility for alteration minerals.       FT-IR is not used for
   elemental determination. Raman analysis has utility for sulfides, crystalline materials,
   and some rock-forming minerals, but it is not used for elemental determination. A
   Raman analytical system uses a laser beam of various wavelengths to excite the
   atoms of a sample causing them to move into various vibrational states. Some of
   these vibrational states cause some portion of the incident illumination to have a
   change in energy. Raman measures the shift in energy state, and materials often have
   a unique fingerprint for the Raman Shift.
[0020]      XRF analysis is useful for determination of elemental composition and metal
   content. XRF is mostly used as a rapid method of elemental analysis, and XRF systems
   use X-Rays to measure composition. All forms of ICP are used for determination of
   elemental composition. In mining, ICP is mostly used for determination of metal
   content.
[0021]      NIR, FT-IR, Raman and XRF all use electromagnetic radiation to operate. NIR
   operates in the 350 - 2500 nm region, FT-IR region includes longer wavelengths
                                            4

   whereas XRF instruments operate in the shorter wave region of X-Rays. As those of
   ordinary skill in the art will appreciate, there is a big overlap between FT-IR, NIR and
   Raman methods. Typically only one of these methods would be used in mining based
   primarily on which technique was most suitable for the main mineral of interest.
[0022]     Referring now to the drawings, where like or similar elements are designated
   with identical reference numerals throughout the several views, and referring          in
   particular to FIGURE 1, it illustrates one embodiment of a system for generating a
   chemometric calibration model. As shown, in this embodiment N collections of data
   102 from N different analytical techniques are each combined with chemical or
   physical reference data into a disparate calibration database 104. The disparate
   calibration database 104 is referred to as "disparate"             because although the
   calibration data from the several analytical techniques is accessible, it is still
   separate at this stage and has not been unified as discussed below.
[0023]     As depicted, the N collections of data may include NIR spectra, XRF spectra,
   Raman spectra, FTIR spectra, ICP data from corresponding analytical techniques,
   and potentially other data from other analytical techniques discussed above and
   further herein. The chemical or physical reference data 103 in this embodiment is
   data that represents a known attribute of a geologic sample of matter such as a
   molecular property or molecular structure. For example, specific mineral content,
   elemental content, and/or metallurgical properties for a sample may reside in the
   chemical or physical reference data 103. In this way, a known attribute (e.g.,
   molecular structure) is associated with the corresponding signature of the attribute
   that is produced by the corresponding analytical technique.
[0024]     The disparate calibration database 104 may be organized into records and
   each record may include the known attribute and the corresponding signature
   produced by the corresponding analytical technique. But when assembled, the
   disparate calibration database 104 includes a large collection of separate records
   (separated by analytical techniques); thus the disparate calibration database 104 is
   useful when analytical techniques are separately used, but is unwieldy, includes
   redundant data, and is not amenable to use when two or more analytical techniques
   (e.g., NIR and XRF) are simultaneously used to analyze a sample.
[0025]     Thus the disparate calibration database 104 represents a collection of typical
   calibration data that may be utilized with the typical and usual process for materials
   characterization, which includes separately collecting and analyzing data using a
   variety of instruments and chemical procedures. In other words, data from each
   individual analytical technique is stored in the disparate calibration database 104
   without regard to the other data (derived compositional or other material property
                                              5

   values) from the other analytical techniques.
[0026]     It should be recognized that the depicted disparate calibration database 104
   simply represents the availability of calibration data from the N analytical techniques,
   and it may be realized by a distributed collection of data stores that may or may not
   be collocated. For example, it is contemplated that NIR calibration data for a specific
   geological property may be stored at a first location, and XRF calibration data for the
   same geological property may be stored at a second location, but the NIR and XRF
   calibration data are obtainable by wire line and/or wireless networks and provided to
   the chemometric model generator 106 for processing.
[0027]     In general,    the chemometric     model generator    106 functions to combine
   separate sets of calibration data from the disparate calibration database 104
   (corresponding to two or more of the separate analytical techniques) to generate a
   more comprehensive, yet simpler, characterization of geological attributes of a
   sample.
[0028]      Although any given assay may not ideally identify a material, some part of the
   raw signal or interpreted result may be useful in characterizing other properties of the
   material. Thus when combined in a multivariate model with other available data, the
   material can be characterized to a better extent than possible with each individual
   data source. The combination of all pertinent data (from two or more of the analytical
   techniques)    in the chemometric calibration model       108 enables a     better overall
   characterization of geological sample than with any single source of information.
   Moreover, the chemometric calibration model 108 is in an easily-actionable form that
   renders it readily amenable for implementation in mining operations where quick
   analysis of geologic materials is desired.
[0029]     In some embodiments, the output (derived compositional or other material
   property values) from each non-NIR data source is added to the overall database
   along with NIR spectra. For example, XRF produces a spectrum, which is used by the
   XRF to determine the elemental composition of a sample. In these embodiments, the
   elemental values are combined with NIR spectral data into the database to create a
   multivariate calibration model that is used in the chemometric calibration model 108.
   In other embodiments, the raw non-NIR data (the XRF spectrum, Raman spectrum, IR
   spectrum, etc.)(rather than derived compositional or other material property values)
   are combined with the NIR spectrum to create a multivariate calibration model that is
   used in the chemometric calibration model 108.
[0030]     In many instances, the resultant simplified model derived from two sources
   (e.g.,  a   NIR   source  and  ICP  source)   result in   a  characterization  that more
   comprehensively characterizes a geological attribute than the sum of the two separate
                                              6

   calibration sets for the sources.
[0031]     In some implementations, the chemometric model generator 106 is realized by
   processor-based      hardware   that  executes  non-transitory   processor  executable
   instructions to combine two or more sets of calibration data into a unified calibration
   model that is more amenable to application (e.g., to predict a sample's constituent
   structure and/or components). In some variations, for example, the chemometric
   model generator 106 utilizes principle component analysis (PCA) to arrive at a model
   with a number of principle components that is fewer than the number of variables in
   the source data from the disparate calibration database 104, but it contemplated that
   other approaches such as partial least squares (PLS) may be utilized.
[0032]     Referring next to FIG. 2, it depicts a system for identifying attributes of a
   geological sample 204. While referring to FIG. 2, simultaneous reference is made to
   FIG. 3, which is a flowchart depicting a method that may be traversed in connection
   with the embodiment depicted in FIG. 2 (in addition to other embodiments described
   herein). As shown, the system 200 includes an analysis component 202 for analyzing a
   geological sample (e.g., ore) using two or more of N analytical technologies (also
   referred to as analytical subsystems) such as NIR, XRF, Raman,          FTIR, ICP and
   potentially other technologies. Although many analytical techniques may be utilized, as
   discussed further herein, in many embodiments only two analytical technologies are
   utilized.
[0033]     In operation, an unknown geological sample is initially obtained for analysis
   (Block 300). For example, the sample may be an ore sample obtained during the
   development of a new mine or during ongoing extraction of material from an existing
   mine. In some mines for example, deposits are spatially variable and ongoing analysis
   is important for ore sorting or for ore processing optimization. As depicted, the
   unknown sample is analyzed with at least two of the N analytical technologies (Block
   302), and each of the at least two analytical technologies generates a corresponding
   one of at least two data streams 206 when analyzing the sample.
[0034]     The data from these streams 206 is then collected in a data collection
   component 208 before being processed (Block 304). In some implementations, the
   data from each of the analytical technologies is generated and sent to the data
   collection component 208 substantially simultaneously. But in other implementations,
   the analytical technologies do not analyze the sample at the same time, and the data
   collection component 208 waits until the data from each analytical technology is
   received before combining and releasing the data to the combined database.
[0035]     As shown, a prediction engine 212 is coupled to the combined database 210
   and the chemometric calibration model 108 (generated as described with reference to
                                            7

   FIG. 1), and the prediction engine 210 generally operates to provide an identification
   of attributes of the sample 204 by applying the chemometric calibration model 108 to
   the collected and combined data (Block 306). Typically the calibration model consists
   of a set of vectors that in application are multiplied times the corresponding data
   vectors to arrive at a predicted result.
[0036]      It should be recognized that the analytical subsystems are the same types of
   systems that were used to generate the chemometric calibration model.      For example,
   if the analytical subsystems are NIR and XRF types of systems, then the analytical
   systems used to generate the chemometric calibration model must also be NIR and
   XRF systems. One of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that if the analytical
   subsystems are made by a different manufacturer than the analytical systems used to
   generate the chemometric calibration model, products are available to convert the
   data generated by the analytical subsystems so that the chemometric calibration
   model may be applied to the combined data generated by the analytical subsystems.
[0037]      In some variations of the embodiment depicted in FIG.         2, the analytical
   technologies     are  realized  by  completely    separate  machines,   which  may    be
   manufactured      by separate entities.   In these embodiments,     the data collection
   component 208 may include hardware or hardware in connection with software in
   addition to communication links known to those of skill in the art to communicate with
   the various protocols that are utilized by the different machines. In addition, data is
   extracted from the various data formats and the data may be converted to different
   units of measure. One of ordinary skill will also appreciate that the various constructs
   depicted in FIG. 2 may be connected by wireline or wireless technologies and may be
   collocated or distributed across different locations.
[0038]      Referring next to FIG. 4, shown is another embodiment in which two or more
   analytical subsystems are integrated into a single analysis unit 400. Shown are a NIR
   subsystem and a supplemental subsystem 404 that are coupled to the data collection
   component 208, which operates as described with reference to FIGS. 2 and 3 to collect
   and combine data, which is then stored in the combined database 210 for analysis by
   the prediction component 210 as previously described with reference to FIGS. 2 and 3.
   As depicted, the analysis unit 400 in this embodiment includes a network connectivity
   component 420 to enable the analysis unit 400 to receive chemometric calibration
   data via a network 422 to enable the local chemometric calibration model 408 to be
   updated.
[0039]     Although the analysis unit 400 depicted in FIG. 4 only includes two analytical
   subsystems, other embodiments utilize more than two analytical subsystems. But the
   depicted use of a NIR subsystem 402 (in connection with at least one other type of
                                             8

   analytical subsystem)     is an implementation      that has wide-ranging    utility. More
   specifically, NIR works well with a wide range of sample preparation approaches, and
   as a consequence, it is an attractive method to pair with other techniques. In
   particular, the NIR subsystem 402 is capable of examining irregular surfaces with the
   same ease as a carefully prepared          sample,    NIR  is non- destructive,    and NIR
   analysis requires little or no sample preparation. NIR can also be used to analyze
   multiple constituents in a single scan. Combined with another type of analytical
   subsystem, NIR analysis is an especially powerful tool for a multitude of applications.
[0040]      Referring to FIG.   5, it is a table depicting a summary of results of an
   exemplary implementation in which two analytical techniques--NIR spectroscopy and
   inductively coupled plasma induced atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES)-were
   utilized to analyze four minerals and one metallurgical property (e.g., mineral acid
   consumption). As depicted, the four minerals and one metallurgical property (e.g.,
   mineral acid consumption) were modeled using a combination of NIR spectra and
   ICP-AES data, ICP-AES data alone, and NIR spectra alone, respectively.
[0041]     Spectral data from an Analytical Spectral Devices, Inc., (ASD) NIR LabSpec
   5000 Spectrometer with wavelength range of 350 to 2500 nanometers was combined
   with data from whole rock inductively coupled plasma induced atomic emission
   spectroscopy (ICP-AES) analysis.     ICP-AES produces elemental data that is similar to
   data produced by XRF instrumentation.          In typical mining operations, the delay
   between collection of the sample and determination of the traditional ICP-AES data
   causes a loss in productivity. A drawback of the approach is that it does not allow for
   real-time process optimization of metal extraction parameters. Thus the inclusion of
   multiple    non-destructive  techniques    can   also   enable  ore analysis    and   mine
   optimization techniques that were previously unattainable.
[0042]     The column labeled "PC" contains the number of principal components (PC)
   used in the models that were developed. The PCs are the simplification vectors that
   are created by various chemometric tools to describe a data matrix. A complex sample
   set that is not well described by the data may require a large number of PCs, whereas
   the same sample set described to a better extent will require fewer PCs. Ideally,
   models should contain the lowest possible number of principal components while
   producing the lowest possible error.
[0043]     The number of PCs should be as low as possible and a model with fewer PCs
                                            9

   indicates a more simple solution. Fewer PCs are preferred because as PCs are added to
   describe a data matrix the amount of noise in the PCs tends to increase. Models
   developed using a higher number of factors are more susceptible to noise in the data
   and noise in the data can create prediction errors from the models. But if the model is
   based on a relatively smaller number of factors, generally the models are more robust
   and less susceptible to prediction errors as the result of noise in the data.
[0044]     Error of the calibration set is reported as Standard Error of Cross-validation
   (SECV), which is an estimate of the prediction error that would be encountered on new
   samples. It is not a measurement of true error because the samples were used in the
   calibration set, but were iteratively removed and predicted using a calibration that
   included all remaining calibration set samples. The sample is then added back into the
   calibration set and the next sample removed and error calculated on the omitted
   sample. Finally error is averaged across all samples to produce SECV. This is an
   automated function of all chemometric programs, which mat be utilized in connection
   with the embodiments disclosed herein. True error as measured by the Standard Error
   of Prediction is calculated using a set of samples not included in the calibration set.
   This is the square root of the squared differences divided by the number of samples in
   the test set. This true error is often used to determine whether the calibration will
   work as the SECV would indicate it should. As shown in FIG. 5, the number of principle
   components in many instances was beneficially reduced while the combined use of two
   analytical techniques (NIR and ICP) provided a more comprehensive analysis of the
   geological sample.
[0045]     Of note, quartz and pyrite both have either very low or no (NIR) spectral
   signature, and hence their calibration models generated via NIR spectra alone were
   poor. The addition of the supplemental ICP-AES data allowed creation of significantly
   improved models for these minerals. Note the higher value of the coefficient of
   determination in calibration (R2     -  represented by RSQ), the lower value of the
   standard error in cross validation (SECV), and the lower value of the standard error of
   prediction (SEP). Additionally, the calibration model obtained for muscovite (one of the
   key alteration minerals) in the case of NIR spectra alone (RSQ value of 0.73 and a
   SECV of 7.85) was dramatically improved by using NIR spectra with ICP data (RSQ
   value of 0.95 and a SECV of 3.34) as seen in FIG. 5.
                                            10

[0046]     Mineral and metallurgical    models for mining likewise can       be significantly
   improved through the combination of NIR data with XRF data, RAMAN spectra, or
   (Fourier Transform- Infrared)    FT-IR spectra.    All of these techniques produce a
   different data stream that can be combined with NIR spectra (or data) so each is
   complementary to the NIR spectra. Although, NIR, RAMAN, XRF and FT-IR systems
   are   commonly    used   as  separate  systems    in   mining-related   applications, the
   combination of data from these systems (as performed by the various embodiment
   disclosed herein)   into a single predictive model for mining applications is novel.
   Additionally, combination of these techniques into a single measurement instrument is
   also novel.
[0047]     Aspects of the systems and methods described herein can be implemented in
   connection with a computer system in addition to the specific physical devices
   described herein.   FIG. 6 shows a diagrammatic representation of one embodiment of
   a computer system 600 within which a set of non-transitory, processor executable
   instructions can execute for causing a device to perform or execute any one or more of
   the aspects and/or methodologies of the present disclosure.            For example, the
   chemometric model generator 106 described with reference to FIG. 1 may be realized
   in part by a computing device such as that depicted in FIG. 6.           In addition, the
   prediction engine 210 described with reference to FIG. 2 may be realized (at least in
   part) by components such as those depicted in FIG. 6, and the method described with
   reference to FIG. 3 may be effectuated (at least in part) by non-transitory, processor
   executable instructions that are executed by a system such as the one depicted in FIG.
   6. The components in FIG. 6 are examples only and do not limit the scope of use or
   functionality of any hardware, hardware combined with software, firmware, embedded
   logic component, or a combination of two or more such components implementing
   particular embodiments of this disclosure.   Some or all of the illustrated components
   can be part of the computer system 600.     For instance, the computer system 600 can
   be implemented as a general purpose computer (e.g., a laptop computer), mobile
   device (e.g., tablet or smart phone) or an embedded logic device (e.g., an FPGA), to
   name just two non-limiting examples.
[0048]     Computer system 600 includes at least a processor 601 such as a central
   processing unit (CPU) or an FPGA to name two non-limiting examples. The computer
   system 600 may also comprise a memory 603 and a storage 608, both communicating
   with each other, and with other components, via a bus 640.         The bus 640 may also
   link a display 632, one or more input devices 633 (which may, for example, include a
   keypad, a keyboard, a mouse, a stylus, etc.), one or more output devices 634, one or
   more storage devices 635, and various non-transitory, tangible computer-readable
                                           11

   storage media 636 with each other and with one or more of the processor 601, the
   memory 603, and the storage 608. All of these elements may interface directly or via
   one or more interfaces or adaptors to the bus 640.         For instance, the various non
   transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media 636 can interface with the bus
   640 via storage medium interface 626. Computer system 600 may have any suitable
   physical form, including but not limited to one or more integrated circuits (ICs),
   printed circuit boards (PCBs), mobile handheld devices (such as mobile telephones or
   PDAs), laptop or notebook computers, distributed computer systems, computing grids,
   or servers.
[0049]      Processor(s) 601 (or central processing unit(s) (CPU(s))) optionally contains a
   cache memory unit 602 for temporary local storage of instructions, data, or computer
   addresses.      Processor(s) 601 are configured to assist in execution of computer
   readable instructions stored on       at least one non-transitory,     tangible computer
   readable storage medium. Computer system 600 may provide functionality as a result
   of the processor(s) 601 executing software embodied in one or more non-transitory,
   tangible computer-readable storage media, such as memory 603, storage 608, storage
   devices 635, and/or storage medium 636 (e.g.,           read only memory (ROM)).        For
   instance, the method described with reference to FIG. 3 may be embodied in one or
   more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media.          The non-transitory,
   tangible computer-readable      storage media     may store software that implements
   particular embodiments, and processor(s) 601 may execute the software. Memory 603
   may read the software from one or more other non-transitory, tangible computer
   readable storage media (such as mass storage device(s) 635, 636) or from one or
   more other sources through a suitable interface, such as network interface 620. The
   software may cause processor(s) 601 to carry out one or more processes or one or
   more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. Carrying out such
   processes or steps may include defining data structures stored in memory 603 and
   modifying the data structures as directed by the software.      In some embodiments, an
   FPGA can      store instructions for carrying    out functionality as described in this
   disclosure.    In other embodiments, firmware includes instructions for carrying out
   functionality as described in this disclosure (e.g., the method described with reference
   to FIG. 3).
[0050]     The memory       603  may include various components         (e.g., non-transitory,
   tangible computer-readable storage media) including, but not limited to, a random
   access memory component (e.g., RAM 604) (e.g., a static RAM "SRAM", a dynamic
   RAM "DRAM,      etc.), a read-only component (e.g., ROM 605), and any combinations
   thereof.    ROM 605 may act to communicate data and instructions unidirectionally to
                                             12

   processor(s) 601, and RAM 604 may act to communicate data and instructions
   bidirectionally with processor(s) 601. ROM 605 and RAM 604 may include any suitable
   non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media described below.      In some
   instances, ROM 605 and RAM 604 include non-transitory, tangible computer-readable
   storage media for carrying out the methods described herein. In one example, a basic
   input/output system 606       (BIOS),  including basic routines that help to transfer
   information between elements within computer system 600, such as during start-up,
   may be stored in the memory 603.
[0051]     Fixed storage 608 is connected bidirectionally to processor(s) 601, optionally
   through storage control unit 607. Fixed storage 608 provides additional data storage
   capacity and may also include any suitable non-transitory, tangible computer-readable
   media described herein. Storage 608 may be used to store operating system 609,
   EXECs 610 (executables), data 611, API applications 612 (application programs), and
   the like. For instance, multiple instances of the storage 608 could be implemented for
   storage of the disparate calibration database 104, the chemometric calibration model
   108, the data collection component 208, and the combined database 210 as described
   in FIGS. 1, 2, and 4.   Often, although not always, storage 608 is a secondary storage
   medium (such as a hard disk) that is slower than primary storage (e.g., memory 603).
   Storage 608 can also include an optical disk drive, a solid-state memory device (e.g.,
   flash-based systems), or a combination of any of the above.      Information in storage
   608 may, in appropriate cases, be incorporated as virtual memory in memory 603.
[0052]     In one example, storage device(s) 635 may be removably interfaced with
   computer system 600 (e.g., via an external port connector (not shown)) via a storage
   device interface 625. Particularly, storage device(s) 635 and an associated machine
   readable medium may provide nonvolatile and/or volatile storage of machine-readable
   instructions, data structures, program modules, and/or other data for the computer
   system 600. In one example, software may reside, completely or partially, within a
   machine-readable medium on storage device(s) 635. In another example, software
   may reside, completely or partially, within processor(s) 601.
[0053]     Bus 640 connects a wide variety of subsystems. Herein, reference to a bus may
   encompass one or more digital signal         lines serving a common function, where
   appropriate. Bus 640 may be any of several types of bus structures including, but not
   limited to, a memory bus, a memory controller, a peripheral bus, a local bus, and any
   combinations thereof, using any of a variety of bus architectures. As an example and
   not by way of limitation, such architectures include an Industry Standard Architecture
   (ISA) bus, an Enhanced ISA (EISA)       bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a
   Video Electronics Standards Association local bus (VLB),      a Peripheral Component
                                            13

   Interconnect (PCI)     bus, a PCI-Express (PCI-X)    bus, an Accelerated Graphics Port
   (AGP) bus, HyperTransport (HTX) bus, serial advanced technology attachment (SATA)
   bus, and any combinations thereof.
[0054]     Computer system 600 may also include an input device 633. In one example, a
   user of computer system 600 may enter commands and/or other information into
   computer system 600 via input device(s) 633. Examples of an input device(s) 633
   include, but are not limited to, an alpha-numeric input device (e.g., a keyboard), a
   pointing device (e.g., a mouse or touchpad), a touchpad, touchscreen, a joystick, a
   gamepad, an audio input device (e.g., a microphone, a voice response system, etc.),
   an optical scanner, a video or still image capture device (e.g., a camera), and any
   combinations thereof. Input device(s) 633 may be interfaced to bus 640 via any of a
   variety of input interfaces 623 (e.g., input interface 623) including, but not limited to,
   serial, parallel, game port, USB, FIREWIRE, THUNDERBOLT, or any combination of the
   above.
[0055]     In  particular embodiments,    when computer system 600 is connected to
   network    630 (such     as   network 422   in  FIG.  4),  computer system     600    may
   communicate with other devices, such as mobile devices and enterprise systems,
   connected to network 630. Communications to and from computer system 600 may
   be sent through network interface 620. For example, network interface 620 may
   receive incoming communications (such as requests or responses from other devices)
   in the form of one or more packets (such as Internet Protocol (IP)         packets) from
   network 630, and computer system 600 may store the incoming communications in
   memory 603 for processing. Computer system 600 may similarly store outgoing
   communications (such as requests or responses to other devices) in the form of one or
   more packets in memory 603 and communicated to network 630 from network
   interface 620.     Processor(s) 601 may access these communication packets stored in
   memory 603 for processing.
[0056]     Examples of the network interface 620 include, but are not limited to, a
   network interface card, a modem,       and any combination thereof.       Examples of a
   network 630 or network segment 630 include, but are not limited to, a wide area
   network (WAN) (e.g., the Internet, an enterprise network), a local area network (LAN)
   (e.g., a network associated with an office, a building, a campus or other relatively
   small geographic space), a telephone network, a direct connection between two
   computing devices, and any combinations thereof. A network, such as network 630,
   may employ a wired and/or a wireless mode of communication.              In general, any
   network topology may be used.
[0057]     Information and data can be displayed through a display 632.       Examples of a
                                            14

   display 632 include, but are not limited to, a liquid crystal display (LCD), an organic
   liquid crystal display (OLED), a cathode ray tube (CRT), a plasma display, and any
   combinations thereof. The display 632 can interface to the processor(s) 601, memory
   603, and fixed storage 608, as well as other devices, such as input device(s) 633, via
   the bus 640. The display 632 is linked to the bus 640 via a video interface 622, and
   transport of data between the display 632 and the bus 640 can be controlled via the
   graphics control 621.      The results presented by the prediction engine 210 may be
   displayed by the display.
[0058]     In addition to a display 632, computer system 600 may include one or more
   other peripheral output devices 634 including, but not limited to, an audio speaker, a
   printer, and any combinations thereof.           Such peripheral output devices may be
   connected to the bus 640 via an output interface 624.             Examples of an output
   interface 624 include, but are not limited to, a serial port, a parallel connection, a USB
   port, a FIREWIRE port, a THUNDERBOLT port, and any combinations thereof.
[0059]     In   addition   or  as  an  alternative,   computer   system     600  may    provide
   functionality as a result of logic hardwired or otherwise embodied in a circuit, which
   may operate in place of or together with software to execute one or more processes or
   one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. Reference
   to software in this disclosure may encompass logic, and reference to logic may
   encompass software.        Moreover, reference to a non-transitory, tangible computer
   readable medium may encompass a circuit (such as an IC) storing software for
   execution, a circuit embodying logic for execution, or both, where appropriate.          The
   present disclosure encompasses hardware or hardware in connection with software.
[0060]     Within this specification, the same reference characters are used to refer to
   terminals, signal lines, wires, etc. and their corresponding signals. In this regard, the
   terms    "signal,"    "wire,"  "connection,"    "terminal," and    "pin"    may   be    used
   interchangeably, from time-to-time, within the this specification. It also should be
   appreciated that the terms "signal," "wire," or the like can represent one or more
   signals, e.g., the conveyance of a single bit through a single wire or the conveyance of
   multiple parallel bits through multiple parallel wires. Further, each wire or signal may
   represent bi-directional communication between two, or more, components connected
   by a signal or wire as the case may be.
[0061]     The various illustrative logical     blocks, modules, and circuits described in
   connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed
   with a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor (DSP),          an application
   specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array (FPGA)         or other
   programmable       logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware
                                             15

   components, or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described
   herein.   A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative,
   the processor may be any conventional processor, controller, microcontroller, or state
   machine.     A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing
   devices,   e.g.,  a   combination of a   DSP   and   a microprocessor,    a  plurality of
   microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any
   other such configuration.
[0062]     The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable
   any person     skilled in the art to make or use the present invention.          Various
   modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art,
   and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.          Thus, the present
   invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be
   accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed
   herein.
[0063]     In conclusion, improvements in the precision and accuracy of ore property
   calibration when two or more analytical techniques are combined such as those
   discussed above. The result is a combined system that provides an accurate and
   precise analysis of as many of the ore mineralogical and metallurgical properties as is
   possible.   In addition, many variations of the system for obtaining the data are rapid
   and require only a single prepared ore sample. In addition to the selection of the
   optimum analytical technologies, the software system that optimizes the calibration
   using the combined dataset may be tailored to the mineralogy of the ore deposit.
[0064]     The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
   derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as
   an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication
   (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0065]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.
                                           16

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A system for analyzing an unknown geological sample, the system comprising:
        at least two analytical subsystems including a near-infrared spectral-analysis subsystem
and at least one other analytical subsystem, each of the at least two analytical subsystems
providing different information about the geological sample;
        a data collection component to collect and combine the different information from each
analytical subsystem to create combined analytical information;
        a chemometric calibration database that includes records that relate geological attributes
to data previously generated with at least two analytical systems that are the same types of
systems as the at least two analytical subsystems; and
        a prediction engine that applies the records in the chemometric calibration database to
the combined analytical information to identify specific geological attributes in the unknown
geological sample.
2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two analytical subsystems are integrated
within a single housing.
3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two analytical subsystems are discrete and
separately operable units.
4.      The system of claim 1, including a network connectivity component to couple the
chemometric calibration database with a remote chemometric calibration database.
5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the geological attributes are selected from the group
consisting of elemental attributes, molecular attributes, mineral content, and metallurgical
attributes.
6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one other analytical subsystem is a
technology selected from the group consisting of X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray fluorescence
(XRF), Raman, laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS), Fourier Transform Infrared (FT
IR),  Quantitative Evaluation of Minerals      by SCANing    electron  microscopy    (QEMSCAN),
Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-OES)          analysis, Inductively
Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES),         and Inductively Coupled Plasma
Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS).
                                                17

7.      A method for analyzing an unknown geological sample, the method comprising:
        obtaining an unknown geological sample;
        analyzing the unknown geological sample with at least two geological-property analytical
subsystems to obtain two sets of analytical data;
        collecting the two sets of analytical data to form combined data; and
        identifying attributes of the unknown geological sample by applying a chemometric
calibration model to the combined data to predict geological attributes of the sample, wherein
the calibration model is derived from data collected from analytical systems that are the same
types as the analytical subsystems.
8.      The method of claim 7 including:
        obtaining the chemometric calibration model from a remote location via a network.
9.      The method of claim 7, wherein analyzing the unknown geological sample includes
analyzing the unknown geological sample with a near-infrared spectral-analysis subsystem to
obtain data indicative of a molecular content of the geological sample.
10.     The method of claim 9, wherein analyzing the unknown geological sample includes
analyzing the unknown        geological sample with an analytic technology that provides an
indication of elemental content of the geological sample.
11.     A non-transitory, tangible processor readable storage medium, encoded with processor
readable instructions to perform a method for processing analyzing an unknown geological
sample, the method comprising:
        obtaining an unknown geological sample;
        analyzing the unknown geological sample with at least two geological-property analytical
subsystems to obtain two sets of analytical data;
        collecting the two sets of analytical data to form combined data; and
        identifying attributes of the unknown geological sample by applying a chemometric
calibration model to the combined data to predict geological attributes of the sample, wherein
the calibration model is derived from data collected from analytical systems that are the same
types as the analytical subsystems.
                                                   18

12.     The non-transitory, tangible processor readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein
the method includes obtaining the chemometric calibration model from a remote location via a
network.
13.     The non-transitory, tangible processor readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein
analyzing the unknown geological sample includes analyzing the unknown geological sample
with a near-infrared spectral-analysis subsystem to obtain data indicative of a molecular content
of the geological sample.
14.     The non-transitory, tangible processor readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein
analyzing the unknown geological sample includes analyzing the unknown geological sample
with an analytic technology that provides an indication of elemental content of the geological
sample.
                                                19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/6

    <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
"                                4/6
               !
           !

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               5/6
#

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        "
                %
&
    #
    $
            !
                                               6/6

