ABSTRACT
The present invention provides an advantageous formulation of ubiquinone (CoQ1o)
and/or ubiquinol with greater bioavailability, thereby allowing for high concentrations
of CoQ1o and/or ubiquinol to be absorbed with lesser volumes of the desired lipophilic
substance in the composition. The present invention provides this through a water
soluble composition comprising at least one bioactive lipophilic substance selected
from one or more of ubiquinone, ubiquinol and semi-ubiquinone and micelle-promoting
agents comprising one or more of carrier oils, solvents, emulsifiers, antioxidants and
excipients.

      UBIQUIN ONE AND UBIQUINOL COMPOSI TI ON S. AND METHODS
                                 RELATING THERETO
This document claims priority from AU 2015903795 and AU <removed-apn>, the entire
contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
TECH NI CAL FI ELD
The present invention generally relates to water-soluble compositions of bioactive
lipophilic compounds, particularly relating to water soluble compositions of ubiquinone
or ubiquinol, to compounds useful for the preparation of such compositions, to
methods of preparing such compounds and compositions, to the use of such
compositions     as   therapeutics,   complementary      medicines,   cosmetics, dietary
supplements, sports supplements and functional foods, and for the purpose of
increasing the bioavailability of such bioactive lipophilic compounds.
BACKGROUND
Many bioactive compounds are highly lipophilic (hydrophobic), meaning that they are
soluble in lipids (oils) and some organic solvents, while being substantially insoluble
or only partially soluble in water.
The lack of solubility of a bioactive compound in aqueous media is an important factor
limiting its therapeutic or clinical applications, and particularly making efficient
administration of the compound to a patient difficult. When administered in the form
of an oil solution or some kind of water and/or oil suspension or emulsion, lipophilic
compounds typically show a poor bioavailability, meaning a low concentration and a
long build-up time of the compound in the systemic circulation.
Bioactive lipophilic compounds in need of solubilization belong to various therapeutic
categories, such as vitamins, antibiotics, free radical scavengers, immunosuppressants
etc. One particularly important bioactive lipophilic compound is coenzyme Qio (CoQ1o),
which is a natural compound whose therapeutic potential has been recently recognized
and it is also of great interest to cosmetic industry, since it can be included into
                                              1

cosmetic preparations as an agent slowing down natural skin ageing processes,
amongst other benefits.
CoQ1o has as its basic core unit a benzoquinone ring. This central ring structure exists
in chemical equilibrium with its alternate redox forms; the partially-reduced form
oxybenzoquinol, and the fully-reduced form of benzoquinol. The overall ubiquinone
structure therefore exists in chemical equilibrium with its reduced forms;            semi
ubiquinone (also known as semiquinone) and ubiquinol, respectively.
Semiquinone (the partially-reduced form         of CoQ1o)   is a free radical, chemically
unstable and thus unsuitable for clinical or cosmetic applications due to its low
chemical stability. However, the fully-reduced form of CoQ1o (ubiquinol) is stable
enough to see clinical or cosmetic application as an alternative to CoQ1o, allowing the
compound to be converted into CoQ1o by the body as needed. However, ubiquinol faces
the same drawbacks as CoQ1o in that it also possesses a low level of absorption
because, like CoQ1o, it is lipophilic.
The biological activity of CoQ1o is believed to be linked to its ability to act as an
antioxidant and free radical scavenger protecting integrity of cell membranes and to
offset the inability of diseased cells to manufacture sufficient energy for cellular repair,
by stimulating mitochondrial respiration and production of ATP. For effectiveness in
both clinical and cosmetic applications, preparations of Coenzyme Qio with high
bioavailability and solubility in aqueous media are usually required.
It is well known that the absorptivity of CoQ1o by oral administration is low due to its
low solubility in water. CoQ1o is absorbed like fat-soluble vitamins into the living body
mainly through lymph vessels and particularly through the small intestine. Since the
amount which can be absorbed is very limited, the bioavailability of CoQ1o (ubiquinone)
or ubiquinol is low.
The physiological process conducted by the body in an attempt to absorb CoQ1o,
ubiquinol and other lipophilic compounds of value to human physiology is known as
                                             2

micelle formation. Through interaction with chemicals carried in bile, the lipophilic
species can be 'enveloped' in a micelle. The chemicals act as surfactants and are
molecules formed from a long lipophilic tail with a hydrophilic head. A typical micelle
in aqueous solution forms an aggregate with the hydrophilic "head" regions in contact
with surrounding solvent, sequestering the hydrophobic single-tail regions in the
micelle centre. The micelle can then be dispersed in the bulk solvent by virtue of the
hydrophilic head groups that form the outer layer of the micelle.
Many attempts have been made to improve the bioabsorptivity and the stability of fat
soluble compositions that are minimally soluble in water. These compounds are
dissolved in pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as vegetable oils, e.g. sesame
oil, peanut oil, olive oil, soybean oil, cottonseed oil and corn oil, or in animal oils, e.g.
fish liver oil, or dispersed and emulsified in an aqueous liquid with various additives
such as an emulsifier, a dispersing agent or a surfactant.
Previous approaches have also been made to provide water soluble compositions of
ubiquinone. For example, International PCT patent publication no. WO 1996017626
discloses water soluble ubiquinone compositions and prodrugs, methods of their
delivery, and methods of their use in the amelioration of apoptosis. However, these
water soluble ubiquinone prodrugs comprise substituted functional groups in at least
one of positions C1 and C4 of the molecule with the substituent independently selected
from a solubilizing moiety and a targeting moiety.
United States patent no. 7,094,804 discloses a water soluble, essentially water-free
ubiquinone concentrate comprising ubiquinone, a light oil containing triglycerides, and
an emulsifier with an HLB value between 9 and 16, in which the emulsifier is a
polysorbate and is present in a content of at least about 73 weight % of the total
weight of the concentrate.
United States patent no. 7,026,361 discloses a composition comprising ubiquinone
having superior dispersion-stability in an aqueous solution and high bioavailability. The
ubiquinone(s) is dispersed and emulsified in an aqueous solution of a water-soluble
                                               3

material in the presence of an organic acid(s) to form a protective colloid, the average
particle size of the suspended particles being not more than 5pm. The liquid
composition can be adsorbed in or carried on an excipient, or dried.
As shown by the prior art discussed above, the use of micelles to allow compounds
that are normally insoluble (in the solvent being used) to dissolve is well known. This
occurs because the insoluble species can be incorporated into the micelle core, which
is itself solubilized in the bulk solvent by virtue of the micelle head groups' favourable
interactions with the solvent species. A micelle is an aggregate of surfactant molecules
dispersed in a liquid colloid.
Indeed, the human body itself utilizes micelles in the small intestine so as to absorb
fatty substances. The absorption of life-essential nutrients, such as vitamins, minerals,
trace elements is performed by the mucous membrane cells in the small intestine. The
cells of the small intestine, for example, are covered with a microscopically fine water
film so that the cells can directly absorb only such substances that are soluble in this
water film. The bio-availability of water soluble substances, such as sugar, salts, and
certain vitamins (for instance vitamin C) is therefore at an optimum.
However, fat soluble substances - such as commonly available coenzyme Qio and
ubiquinol - are unable to penetrate the water film, but instead must be "pre-treated"
in the small intestine. This occurs by means of micelle formation with the aid of bile
salts. This micelle formation step is the reason that the absorption of fatty substances
cannot occur as easily as for water soluble substances. This disadvantage is evident
from the following facts:
     *  The micelle formation in the small intestine occurs at a time delay, or after the
        release of bile secretion (bile juice) and enzymes of the pancreas.
     *  The micelle formation that is considered the prerequisite for fat digestion absorb
        only part of the fatty substances received with food.
     *   During the comparatively long lasting formation and "eating" of micelles in the
        small intestine, the rest of the digestive processes (transport, etc.) continue
                                               4

        without interruption so that the micelles formed, which contain the fat particles,
        are discharged largely undigested.
The facts described explain the very low bio-availability of fat soluble substances,
which is at approximately 25 percent where no further treatment is made to the fat
soluble substance. To the consumer this means that he/she discharges a large part of
the fat soluble substances absorbed with food or nutritional supplements, such as fat
soluble coenzyme Qio capsules or similarly fat-soluble ubiquinol capsules, unutilized.
Furthermore, some people are unable to absorb fat soluble substances due to certain
metabolic diseases-unless they are present in water soluble form. The formation of
micelles is absolutely crucial, and an indispensable prerequisite for the digestion, or
for the cellular lipid resorption. In nature, the formation of micelles occurs either with
the aid of bile salts and enzymes in the small intestine.
As discussed above, there are certain people who, due to medical reasons, cannot
form micelles, even further lowering their body's absorption of essential lipophilic
species. Further, old age is also known to reduce the ability of a person's digestive
tract to take up a range of important chemicals, including fatty acids or other lipophilic
compounds enclosed in micelles.
Therefore it would be advantageous to provide optimised water-soluble compositions
of bioactive lipophilic compounds, particularly relating to water soluble ubiquinone
composition. This would overcome at least some of the disadvantages of previously
known approaches in this field, or would provide a useful alternative.
DI SCLOSURE OF I NVENTI ON
These and other advantages are met with the present invention. An embodiment of
the present invention provides a water-soluble composition comprising at least one
bioactive lipophilic substance selected from one or more of ubiquinone, ubiquinol and
semi-ubiquinone and micelle-promoting agents comprising one or more of carrier oils,
solvents, emulsifiers, antioxidants and excipients.
                                              5

In an embodiment of the present invention, the carrier oil may comprise one or more
of   medium    chain   triglycerides,  long-chain   triglycerides, caprylic and/or capric
triglycerides, coconut oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil, macadamia nut oil, sesame
oil, soybean oil, peanut oil, castor oil and oleic acid.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the solvent may comprise one or more of
citrus   oil, ethanol,    ethyl   oleate,  glycerine,   glyceryl    mono-oleate,    limonene,
polyethylene glycol 300, polyethylene glycol 400,            polyethylene glycol 600 and
propylene glycol.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the emulsifier may comprise one or more
of hydrogenated castor oil, lecithin, macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate, oat oil polar
lipids,  phosphatidylcholine,     poloxamers,     polyoxyl   35    castor  oil,  polyoxyl  40
hydrogenated     castor oil,    polysorbate 20,    polysorbate 60,      polysorbate 80 and
polyglycerol esters of fatty acids.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the antioxidant may comprise from one
or more of ascorbyl palmitate, d-alpha-tocopherol,            dl-alpha-tocopherol, d-alpha
Tocopheryl acetate, dl-alpha-Tocopheryl acetate, d-alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate,
dl-alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate, mixed tocopherols, Olive polyphenols and Algal
polyphenols.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the excipient may comprise from Colloidal
silica, Corn starch, Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC),           Maltodextrin, Magnesium
stearate, Magnesium hydroxide, Microcrystalline cellulose, dextrin, sorbitol, mannitol
and Trehalose.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the composition may comprise Ubiquinone
or Ubiquinol, from about 10 wt. % to about 85.5 wt. %; a carrier Oil, from about 4.5
wt. % to about 70 wt. %; a solvent, from about 1.0 wt. % to about 20 wt. %
Emulsifier, from about 7.5 wt. % to about 30 wt. %; and an antioxidant, from about
0.005 wt. % to about 0.01 wt. %.
                                               6

A water-soluble composition of claim 1, further comprising an excipient selected from
Colloidal silica, Corn starch,    Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC),      Maltodextrin,
Magnesium      stearate,   Magnesium   hydroxide,   Microcrystalline cellulose,  dextrin,
sorbitol, mannitol and Trehalose.
In  an   embodiment      of the  present  invention,  the composition    may    comprise
Ubiquinoneor Ubiquinol, from about 5 wt. % to about 66.5 wt. %; a carrier oil, from
about 2.5 wt. % to about 45 wt. %; a solvent, from about 1.25 wt. % to about 10 wt.
%; an emulsifier, from about 3.75 wt. % to about 15 wt. %; an antioxidant, from
about 0.005 wt. % to about 0.01 wt. %; and an excipient, to 100 wt. %
A water-soluble composition of claim 1 wherein the absorption of ubiquinone and/or
ubiquinol is improved by at least four times.
A water-soluble composition of claim 1 wherein upon dissolution at a concentration of
4g/L of the composition in an aqueous solvent, the components form a population of
micelles wherein the population mean micelle diameter is less than 20 micrometres
and substantially all of the population of micelles havea diameter of less than 100
micrometres.
In an embodiment of the present invention, the percentage composition of the micelle
promoting mixture is developed so as to ensure that the mean diameter of the
resulting micelles is under 30 microns. In an embodiment of the present invention,
more than 20% of the total population of micelles may have a diameter of less than
10 microns and substantially all of the micelles may have a diameter of less than 100
microns.
In an embodiment, the bioavailability of the lipophilic bioactive compound may be
improved by the use of the present invention by more than 400% relative to traditional
means of delivering the bioactive lipophilic substance.
                                            7

In an embodiment, the composition may be chemically stable at ambient temperature
and humidity for 12 months.
BRI EF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE DRAWl NGS
Figure 1 is a graph showing the stability of a composition of the present invention at
ambient conditions over a period of twelve months.
Figure 2 is a graph showing comparison data between the concentration of CoQ1o in
the blood plasma of a sample group over a period of twenty-four hours following
administration of a typical CoQ1o capsule or a Micelle-prepared CoQ1o            capsule,
measured relative to the baseline concentration level of CoQ1o in blood plasma.
Figure 3 is a graph showing the population size analysis of micelles formed upon
dissolution of 1 gram of the current invention in 250 mL of water.
Figure 4 is a graph showing the volume size analysis of micelles formed upon
dissolution of 1 gram of the current invention in 250 mL of water.
BEST MODE FOR CARRY NG OUT THE INVENTION
An   aspect of the    present  invention   provides an advantageous formulation        of
ubiquinone (CoQ1o) and/or ubiquinol with greater bioavailability, thereby allowing for
high concentrations of CoQ1o and/or ubiquinol to be absorbed with lesser volumes of
the desired lipophilic substance in the composition. As both ubiquinol and CoQ1o are
non-water soluble compounds, in order for the composition of the present invention
to be water soluble it is incorporated into micelle cores (also known as protective
colloids), which are solubilized in the bulk aqueous solvent by virtue of the micelle
head groups' favourable interactions with the aqueous environment.
The micelle-shaped     units that are formed when       the product     is ingested and
subsequently dissolved in the gastric fluids, which contain the lipids (such as CoQ1o or
ubiquinol), are stable with respect to temperature and acid effects in the stomach.
They reach the small intestine unharmed, attach themselves to the mucous membrane
                                            8

cells across their entire surfaces, and can be easily absorbed, leading to a therefore
minimum four times improved bioavailability, into the blood plasma, than is the case
for a "normal" fat digestion.
In a first embodiment of the present invention there is provided a composition formed
as an admixture of one or more of ubiquinone and ubiquinol and one or more micelle
promoting agents. The ubiquinone/ubiquinol may further comprise trace quantities of
semi-ubiquinone.
When the composition of the present invention is added to water - or a solution largely
comprising water, such as milk or fruit juice - the ubiquinone/ubiquinol and the
micelle-promoting agents will interact to form a population of micelles. This process
can also occur on contact between the composition of the present invention and the
aqueous environment of the stomach, if the composition is taken without being added
to water or similar (for example, in a pill or gel form). These micelles are stable with
respect to temperature and acid effects in the stomach and reach the small intestine
undamaged, attach themselves to the mucous membrane cells located across the inner
surface of the small intestine, and can be easily absorbed, thereby leading to higher
bio-availability than is the case for a "normal" uptake of ubiquinone and/or ubiquinol
by the body without the additional micelle-promoting agents.
The micelle-promoting agents comprise a mixture of one or more of a carrier oil, a
solvent, an emulsifier and an antioxidant. In one embodiment of the present invention,
the percentage composition of the micelle-promoting agents is developed so as to
ensure that the mean diameter of the resulting micelles is under 30 microns. In an
embodiment, more than 20% of the total population of micelles has a diameter of less
than 10 microns. In a further embodiment, substantially all of the micelles have a
diameter of less than 100 microns.
The carrier oil is selected from one or more of medium chain triglycerides, long-chain
triglycerides, caprylic and/or capric triglycerides, coconut oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil,
olive oil, macadamia nut oil, sesame oil, soybean oil, peanut oil, castor oil, fish oil and
oleic acid.
                                             9

The solvent is selected from one or more of citrus oil, ethanol, ethyl oleate, glycerine,
glyceryl mono-oleate, limonene, polyethylene glycol 300, polyethylene glycol 400,
polyethylene glycol 600 and propylene glycol.
The emulsifier is selected from one or more of hydrogenated castor oil, lecithin,
macrogolglycerol     hydroxystearate,   oat    oil  polar   lipids,  phosphatidylcholine,
poloxamers, polyoxyl 35 castor oil, polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil, polysorbate
20, polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80 and polyglycerol esters of fatty acids.
The antioxidant is selected from      one or more of ascorbyl         palmitate, d-alpha
tocopherol,   dl-alpha-tocopherol,  d-alpha-Tocopheryl     acetate,   dl-alpha-Tocopheryl
acetate, d-alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate, dl-alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate, mixed
tocopherols, Olive polyphenols and Algal polyphenols.
Process
For the preparation of the composition of this invention, ubiquinone and/or ubiquinol
is first dissolved into the carrier    oil(s) and solvent(s).      The emulsifier(s)  and
antioxidant(s) system are then added. These steps are carried out at a temperature
of about 30-45*C. It is also possible to directly add ubiquinone powders into the
preheated solution, in which the ubiquinone is melted and dispersed. This method is
advantageous because it increases the process efficiency and can decrease the loss of
raw material.
According to an embodiment of the invention, a solid composition can be produced by
allowing the ubiquinone-containing composition to be adsorbed in or carried on an
excipient. Any    type of excipients capable of adsorbing         or carrying the liquid
composition and acceptable for the oral administration can be used for this purpose.
Moreover, the functionality and characteristics of the solid composition can be changed
according to the selection of the excipient. For example, if sorbitol, dextrin and/or
mannitol are used as an excipient, the solid composition becomes soluble in water. If
                                            10

lactose,  cornstarch,   sorbitol,  and/or    crystalline cellulose are used,  the  solid
composition acquires plasticity and can be directly compacted into tablet. Moreover,
chewable tablets, differentially soluble tablets, foaming tablets and the like can be
prepared accordingly. In other embodiments of the invention, the composition can be
used in the preparation of liquids, pastes and emulsions.
An alternative embodiment of the invention is as above, wherein the desired compound
for delivery is a mixture of both ubiquinol and ubiquinone. There may additionally be
trace levels of semi-ubiquinone.
Example 1 - Liquid/Paste Delivery
The preferable compositional range of the present invention is shown in the table below
for all embodiments of the composition of the present invention intended for delivery
and consumption in a liquid, gel, liquid/gel capsule form or similar:
                            Component               Com position
                        Ubiquinone/Ubiquinol      10 - 85.5 wt. %
                             Carrier Oil           4.5 - 70 wt. %
                              Solvent              1.0 - 20 wt. %
                             Emulsifier            7.5 - 30 wt. %
                            Antioxidant         0.005 - 0.01 wt. %
     Table 1: Compositions of Ubiquinone and/ or Ubiquinol for Liquid/ Paste type
                                         delivery
The compositions produced as mentioned above, either by directly drying it or by
adsorbing it in an excipient or by carrying it on an excipient, have been dispersed and
emulsified at the time of forming the protective colloid with an average particle size
not more than 5 pm, preferably not more than 1 pm. And therefore they are promptly
re-dispersed to fine particles when administered.
                                             11

Example 2 - Solid Delivery
According to a further embodiment of the invention, a solid composition can be
produced by allowing the active-ingredient-containing composition to be adsorbed in
or carried on an excipient. Any type of excipient capable of adsorbing or carrying the
liquid composition and acceptable for the oral administration can be used for this
purpose. The excipient is selected from one or more of colloidal silica, corn starch,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose       (HPMC),     maltodextrin,     magnesium      stearate,
magnesium     hydroxide, microcrystalline cellulose, dextrin, sorbitol, mannitol and
trehalose.
The preferable compositional range of the present invention is shown in the table below
for all embodiments of the composition of the present invention intended for delivery
in a solid form, such as powders for dissolution or other purposes, hard tablets or
similar:
                           Component               Com position
                       Ubiquinone/Ubiquinol       5 - 66.5 wt. %
                            Carrier Oil           2.5 - 45 wt. %
                             Solvent             1.25 - 10 wt. %
                            Emulsifier           3.75 - 15 wt. %
                           Antioxidant         0.005 - 0.01 wt. %
                              Powder              30 - 90 wt. %
    Table 2: Compositions of Ubiquinone andl or Ubiquinol for Solid-type delivery
Stability
Compositions produced by the above processes are stable under ambient storage
conditions. The table below depicts the actual results of stability testing conducted on
a formulation manufactured by the process of the present invention.
                                            12

                Test date      11/6/15     13/8/15      20/1/16      8/6/16
             Time (months)         0            3           6           12
               CoQ1o Assay
                                 20.04       22.71        20.34        23.9
                 (wt.% )
    Table 3: Stability test results for CoQ1o lipid based drug delivery system using
                  methods and ingredients described in this invention.
As shown by the drawings, the stability of the composition of the present invention is
further shown in Figure 1, which is a graphical representation of the information in
Table 3. As Table 3 and Figure 1 show, the formulation of the present invention is
stable in conditions as would be typically encountered by supplements and medications
kept in ambient-temperature locations. Therefore, the composition of the present
invention does not require specialised storage facilities for long-term storage. This
provides    industry-level  and   consumer-level    benefit  in that  a  medicament  or
supplement comprising the composition of the present invention will not rapidly
degrade.
Pharmacokinetics
A comparative, controlled (parallel design) single-dose pharmacokinetic study was
conducted with random assignment of subjects of both sexes. The protocol was
approved by the Human Research Ethics Committee at the National Institute of
Integrative Medicine in Hawthorn, Victoria, and informed consent was obtained from
all of the subjects.
Two groups (nl=9, n2=10) of clinically healthy males and females (9 males, 10
females), between the ages of 18 to 50 years, participated in the study. Subjects were
selected in accordance with the inclusion/exclusion criteria listed below. At the
beginning of the study, the subjects were informed of the study, its aims and its
execution. The data was acquired and stored in anonymous form.
Micelle CoQ1o: formulation comprising the composition of the present invention and
containing the specified ingredients with 150 mg CoQ1o per dose.
                                             13

Standard CoQ1o: Control with 150 mg CoQ1o per dose. Product B is a commercially
available formula and is the bestselling CoQ1o formulation, in its category, in Australia.
The subjects were randomized to receive 150 mg of CoQ1o by either taking one Product
A dose or one Product B dose (Standard Qio preparation). The study preparations were
given in the morning before breakfast on an empty stomach. The taking of blood
samples and mealtimes occurred at predetermined regular time intervals. The same
food was eaten by all participants and at the same time.
Samples were taken at 2 sites approximately 1 month apart. 4 participants in Brisbane
and 15 participants in Sydney. All followed the same dosing and testing protocol,
however only the Brisbane participants completed the 7.5 and 24 hour sample.
Samples were collected at Medlab, Sydney and QML in Brisbane in a Lithium Heparin
tube, centrifuged, wrapped in foil and frozen for transport Health Scope for analysis.
Plasma concentrations of CoQ1o were determined by CHarom system - HPLC using a
commercial Qio standard. All data was analysed using GraphPad Prism 6 software. The
CoQ1o baseline levels, at time zero, were evaluated for statistical difference with a
standard t-test for variability of means.
Pharmacokinetic parameters were assessed using the area under the observed
concentration-time curve above baseline (AUCO-24h), the graph of which is shown in
Figure 2. The observed maximum plasma concentration above baseline (Delta Cmax)
was calculated for each individual subject and then average change was calculated.
The AUC was calculated by Prism using the trapezoid rule. Statistical significance was
indicated by a probability level of P<0.05. The CoQ1o baseline levels between the two
groups were similar (no statistical significant difference observed, P=0.31).
After supplementation with CoQ1o both groups experienced significant increase in
plasma levels. Maximum concentration was observed at between 3.5 and 6 hours. The
highest DeltaCmax and Cmax were seen in the Micelle CoQ1o group. The plasma
concentration of CoQ1o in that of the Micelle group remained well above that of the
                                            14

group that had consumed the standard CoQ1o over the duration of the study. The
DeltaCmax for Product A CoQ1o and Product B were statistically different (p=0.009).
The difference in AUC(o.24h), the bioavailability of Product A CoQ1o to Product B was
460%.
                                             Micelle     Standard
                                              CoQ10        CoQ10
                           Baseline
                                               1120         1170
                         (pmol/ ml)
                      Cmax (pmol/ ml)          1991         1449
                          Delta Cmax
                                               871           345
                         (pmol/ ml)
                             Tmax           3.5 hours     6 hours
                          AUC(O-24h)
                                              8227          1784
                         (pmol/ hr)
                        Table 4: Pharmacokinetic parameters
As Table 4 above and the graph in Figure 2 shows, the composition of the present
invention allows for a much higher bioavailability as represented by the respective
AUC(o-24h) values. This shows that the composition of the present invention is
advantageous in provision of bioactive lipids such as ubiquinol and ubiquinone.
Micelle Size
                                        Pop. Stats    Vol. Stats
                             Mean         17.32pm       42.9pm
                         S.Deviation      12.81pm      22.08pm
                            Median        16.17pm      39.18pm
                             Mode          0.5pm       33.86pm
                              D10         2.96pm       22.04pm
                              D50          15.9pm      39.27pm
                              D90        35.37pm        69.1pm
                          % < 10pm        28.05%         0.4%
                             Table 5: Micelle Size Statistics
                                             15

With reference to Figure 3 and table 5, the micelles formed using one gram of the
formulation detailed in Table 1 above in 250 ml water had a mean diameter of 17
microns and 27% of the total population was under 10 microns in size. As Figure 3
shows, there was an initial spike of very-low-size micelles, a lowered number of
micelles of slightly larger diameter and then a spike in micelle population at increased
sizes, peaking close to the mean micelle diameter of 17 microns. Substantially all of
the micelle population was within the micron range and under 100 microns, with only
trace numbers of the micelle population in the over-100 micron range.
Figure 4 shows the volume statistics of the same mixture, which are also contained in
Table 5, above. The volume mean is calculated as 42.9 micrometres, with 90% of the
micelle volume with a diameter of less than 70 micrometres.
It is known that micelle size has an inverse effect on the bio-absorption of the micelle
and contained bioactive lipids. In general, as a micelle population's average diameter
decreases, the ability of said micelles to pass into the bloodstream of a human
increases. Therefore, the present invention is advantageous in that it offers the ability
to produce a population of micelles with an average diameter well below              100
micrometres. This improves uptake of the bioactive compound such as CoQ1o or
ubiquinol, increasing the overall bioavailability.
Dietary Requirements and the Food Effect
In the case of some drugs or bioactive compounds, the method of consumption
frequently requires that the drug/bioactive compound be administered following a
meal, so as to ensure that the necessary biological functions (such as provision of bilial
secretions) are activated in order to induce uptake of the compound by the body. This
is due to the hydrophobic nature of many of these compounds, requiring fats and other
micelle-forming compounds in order to properly solubilise in the gastrointestinal tract
and be absorbed. The timing, volume, temperature, calorific content and nutrient
composition of a particular food, along with accompanying fluid ingestion, may impact
the pharmacokinetics of a bioactive compound and is often known as the food effect.
                                           16

An advantage of the present invention is in the elimination or limitation of the food
effect during the consumption of compositions of the present invention. This promotes
flexibility, enabling it to be applicable across a greater range of people who may have
different dietary needs, restrictions or habits and thus different compatibilities with
various drugs or bioactive compounds.
While the invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments
above, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is not limited to those
embodiments, but may be embodied in many other forms.
In this specification,     unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the word
"comprising" is not intended to have the exclusive meaning of the word such as
"consisting only of", but rather has the non-exclusive meaning, in the sense of
"including at least". The same applies, with corresponding grammatical changes, to
other forms of the word such as "comprise", etc.
I NDUSTRI AL APPLI CABI LI TY
The present invention can be utilised in relation to compounds and compositions for
use as therapeutics, complementary medicines, cosmetics, dietary supplements,
sports supplements and functional foods, and for the purpose of increasing the
bioavailability of such bioactive lipophilic compounds.
In particular, the water-soluble formulations of Coenzyme Qio and its fully-reduced
form of ubiquinol having high bioavailability and solubility of the present invention are
effective in clinical, therapeutic, cosmetic, dietary supplements, sports supplements
and functional foods applications.
                                              17

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are two pages of claims only

CLAI MS:
 1. A water-soluble composition comprising at least one bioactive lipophilic substance
     selected from one or more of ubiquinone and ubiquinol and micelle-promoting
     agents comprising one or        more of carrier    oils, solvents,   emulsifiers and
     antioxidants.
 2. A water-soluble composition according to claim 1 wherein the carrier oil is
     selected from one or more of medium chain triglycerides, long-chain triglycerides,
     caprylic and/or capric triglycerides, coconut oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, olive oil,
     sesame oil, soybean oil, peanut oil, castor oil and oleic acid.
 3. A water-soluble composition according to claim 1 wherein the solvent is selected
     from one or more of citrus oil, ethanol, ethyl oleate, glycerine, glyceryl mono
     oleate, limonene, polyethylene glycol 300, polyethylene glycol 400, polyethylene
     glycol 600 and propylene glycol.
 4. A water-soluble composition according to claim 1 wherein the emulsifier is
     selected from one or more of hydrogenated castor oil, lecithin, macrogolglycerol
     hydroxystearate, oat oil polar lipids, phosphatidulcholine, poloxamers, polyoxyl
     35 castor oil, polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil, polysorbate 20, polysorbate
     60, polysorbate 80 and polyglycerol esters of fatty acids.
 5. A water-soluble composition according to claim 1 wherein the antioxidant is
     selected from one or more of ascorbyl palmitate, d-alpha-tocopherol, dl-alpha
     tocopherol, d-alpha-Tocopheryl acetate, dl-alpha-Tocopheryl acetate, d-alpha
     Tocopheryl acid succinate, dl-alpha-Tocopheryl acid succinate, Olive polyphenols
     and Algal polyphenols.
   6. A water soluble composition according to claim 1, comprising:
              Ubiquinone/Ubiquinol, from about 10 wt. % to about 85.5 wt. %
              Carrier Oil, from about 4.5 wt. % to about 70 wt. %

            Solvent, from about 1.0 wt. % to about 20 wt. %
            Emulsifier, from about 7.5 wt. % to about 30 wt. %
            Antioxidant, from about 0.005 wt. % to about 0.01 wt. %
7. A water-soluble composition of claim 1, further comprising an excipient selected
   from    Colloidal  silica, Corn   starch,   Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose    (HPMC),
   Maltodextrin,     Magnesium    stearate,   Magnesium   hydroxide,   Microcrystalline
   cellulose, dextrin, sorbitol, mannitol and Trehalose.
8. A water soluble composition according to claim 7, comprising:
            Ubiquinone/Ubiquinol, from about 5 wt. % to about 66.5 wt. %
            Carrier Oil, from about 2.5 wt. % to about 45 wt. %
            Solvent, from about 1.25 wt. % to about 10 wt. %
            Emulsifier, from about 3.75 wt. % to about 15 wt. %
            Antioxidant, from about 0.005 wt. % to about 0.01 wt. %
            Excipient, to 100 wt. %
9. A water-soluble composition of claim 1 wherein the absorption of ubiquinone
   and/or ubiquinol is improved by at least four times.
10.A water-soluble      composition   of  claim  1 wherein   upon    dissolution  at  a
   concentration of 4g/L of the composition in an aqueous solvent, the components
   form a population of micelles wherein the population mean micelle diameter is
   less than 20 micrometres and substantially all of the population of micelles havea
   diameter of less than 100 micrometres.
11.A water-soluble composition of claim 1 which is chemically stable at ambient
   temperature and humidity for 12 months.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
