                     MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                              ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         A wagering game system and its operations are described herein. In some embodiments,
the operations can include detecting a request to pair a mobile device with a secondary content
controller that is communicatively coupled to a wagering game machine. The operations can
further include determining, by the secondary content controller, that primary wagering game
content of the wagering game machine is in a state that would permit secondary wagering on the
primary wagering game content. Further, the operations can include pairing the mobile device
with the secondary content controller after determining that the primary wagering game content
is in the state that would permit the secondary wagering.

                                                   1
                    MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                           REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015210435, filed on 7 August 2015, which claims convention priority from U.S. Provisional
Patent Application No. 62/034646, filed on 7 August 2014. Australian Patent Application No.
2015210435 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                 LIMITED COPYRIGHT WAIVER
[0001a] A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to
copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by
anyone of the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or
records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. Copyright 2015, WMS Gaming,
Inc.
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    Embodiments of the inventive subject matter relate generally to wagering game systems
and networks that, more particularly, to providing secondary game content.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0003]    Wagering game machines, such as slot machines, video poker machines and the like,
have been a cornerstone of the gaming industry for several years. Generally, the popularity of
such machines depends on the likelihood (or perceived likelihood) of winning money at the
machine and the intrinsic entertainment value of the machine relative to other available gaming
options. Where the available gaming options include a number of competing wagering game
machines and the expectation of winning at each machine is roughly the same (or believed to be
the same), players are likely to be attracted to the most entertaining and exciting machines.
Shrewd operators consequently strive to employ the most entertaining and exciting machines,
features, and enhancements available because such machines attract frequent play and hence
increase profitability to the operator. Therefore, there is a continuing need for wagering game
machine manufacturers to continuously develop new games and gaming enhancements that will
attract frequent play.
[0004]    In an effort to develop new games and gaming enhancements, one or more
manufacturers have developed technology to present secondary content simultaneously with
presentation of wagering games. While the secondary content can add to the

                                                  2
entertainment value of a wagering game machine, it can also present certain challenges. For
example, if a primary wagering game and the secondary content are controlled by separate
sources, then coordination of content can be challenging.
                                            SUMMARY
[0004a] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
at least ameliorate, at least one disadvantage of present arrangements.
[0004b] One aspect of the present disclosure provides a computer-implemented method for
providing secondary wagering content in a wagering game system, the method comprising:
detecting, by a secondary content controller residing in a wagering game machine, a
communication to add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game machine; detecting, by the
secondary content controller via a network communication interface, a request to pair a mobile
device with the secondary content controller; communicatively pairing, via the network
communication interface, the mobile device with the secondary content controller after detecting
the communication to add funds to the credit meter; presenting, by the primary content
controller, primary game content on a display device of the wagering game machine; presenting,
by the secondary content controller, secondary game content on the mobile device, wherein the
secondary content controller is independent of a primary content controller.
[0004c]      Another aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more machine-readable
storage media having instructions stored thereon, which when executed by a set of one or more
processors, cause the set of one or more processors to perform operations for providing
secondary wagering content in a wagering game system, the instructions comprising: instructions
to detect, by a secondary content controller residing in a wagering game machine, a
communication to add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game machine; instructions to
detect, by the secondary content controller via a network communication interface, a request to
pair a mobile device with the secondary content controller; instructions to communicatively pair,
via the network communication interface, the mobile device with the secondary content
controller after detecting the communication to add funds to the credit meter; instructions to
present, by the primary content controller, primary game content on a display device of the
wagering game machine; instructions to present, by the secondary content controller, secondary
game content on the mobile device, wherein the secondary content controller is independent of a
primary content controller.
[0004d] Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system comprising: one or more
processors; and one or more machine-readable storage media having instructions stored thereon,
which when executed by a set of one or more processors, cause the set of one or more processors

                                                    2a
to perform operations for providing secondary wagering content in a wagering game system, the
instructions comprising: instructions to detect, by a secondary content controller residing in a
wagering game machine, a communication to add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game
machine; instructions to detect, by the secondary content controller via a network
communication interface, a request to pair a mobile device with a secondary content controller;
instructions to communicatively pair, via the network communication interface, the mobile
device with the secondary content controller after detecting the communication to add funds to
the credit meter; instructions to present, by the primary content controller, primary game content
on a display device of the wagering game machine; instructions to present, by the secondary
content controller, secondary game content on the mobile device, wherein the secondary content
controller is independent of a primary content controller.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING(S)
[0005]    Embodiments are illustrated in the Figures of the accompanying drawings in which:
[0006]    Figure 1 is an illustration of transacting one or more secondary bets made by a mobile
device paired with a wagering game machine, according to some embodiments;
[0007]    Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating transacting one or more secondary bets made by a
mobile device paired with a wagering game machine, according to some embodiments;
[0008]    Figures 3-9 are illustrations of a wagering game system 300, according to some
embodiments;
[0009]    Figure 10 is a flow diagram illustrating controlling authorization to pair a mobile device
with a secondary content controller, according to some embodiments;
[0010]    Figure 11 is a flow diagram illustrating controlling authorization to perform secondary
betting via a mobile device paired with a secondary content controller, according to some
embodiments;
[0011]    Figure 12 is an illustration of a wagering game system architecture 1200, according to
some embodiments;
[0012]    Figure 13 is an illustration of a wagering game machine architecture 1300, according to
some embodiments; and
[0013]    Figure 14 is an illustration of a wagering game system 1400, according to some
embodiments.
                      DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
[0014]    This description of the embodiments is divided into five sections.    The first section
provides an introduction to embodiments. The second section describes example operations
performed by some embodiments while the third section describes additional

example embodiments. The fourth section describes example operating environments
while the fifth section presents some general comments.
[0015]     For purposes of the present detailed description, a user may be referred to as a
player (i.e., of wagering games), and a player may be referred to interchangeably as a
player account. Account-based wagering systems utilize player accounts when
transacting and performing activities, at the computer level, that are initiated by players.
Therefore, a "player account" represents the player at a computerized level. The player
account can perform actions via computerized instructions. For example, in some
embodiments, a player account may be referred to as performing an action, controlling an
item, communicating information, etc. Although a player, or person, may be activating a
game control or device to perform the action, control the item, communicate the
information, etc., the player account, at the computer level, can be associated with the
player, and therefore any actions associated with the player can also be associated with
the player account. Therefore, for brevity, to avoid having to describe the
interconnection between player and player account in every instance, a "player account"
may be referred to herein in either context. Further, in some embodiments herein, the
word "gaming" is used interchangeably with "gambling."
[0016]     Furthermore, for purposes of the present detailed description, the terms
"wagering games," "gambling," "slot game," "casino game," and the like include games
in which a player places at risk a sum of money or other representation of value, whether
or not redeemable for cash, on an event with an uncertain outcome, including without
limitation those having some element of skill. In some embodiments, the wagering game
may involve wagers of real money, as found with typical land-based or online casino
games. In other embodiments, the wagering game may additionally, or alternatively,
involve wagers of non-cash values, such as virtual currency, and therefore may be
considered a social or casual game, such as would be typically available on a social
networking web site, other web sites, across computer networks, or applications on
mobile devices (e.g., phones, tablets, etc.). When provided in a social or casual game
format, the wagering game may closely resemble a traditional casino game, or it may take
another form that more closely resembles other types of social/casual games.
                                               3

[0017]     Further, some embodiments of the inventive subject matter describe examples of
providing secondary betting (also referred to as secondary wagering) via an associated
mobile device in a network wagering venue (e.g., an online casino, a wagering game
website, a wagering network, etc.) using a communication network. Embodiments can be
presented over any type of communications network that provides access to wagering
games, such as a public network (e.g., a public wide-area-network, such as the Internet), a
private network (e.g., a private local-area-network gaming network), a peer-to-peer
network, a social network, etc., or any combination of networks. Multiple users can be
connected to the networks via computing devices. The multiple users can have accounts
that utilize specific services, such as account-based wagering services (e.g., account
based wagering game websites, account-based casino networks, etc.).
                                          Introduction
[0018]     This section provides an introduction to some embodiments.
[0019]     Wagering games are expanding in popularity. Wagering game enthusiasts
expect continuous innovations to the wagering game experience. As such, wagering
game companies are interested in creating and providing innovative wagering games and
gaming features to the demanding public. As mentioned previously, some wagering
game manufacturers have developed ways to present primary wagering game content and
secondary content. Some embodiments of the inventive subject matter include providing
secondary content via a mobile device. The secondary content provides a way to make
one or more secondary bets (also referred to as secondary wagers) on the primary
wagering game content. In some examples, the secondary content is independent from
the primary wagering game content (e.g., the secondary content originates from and/or is
controlled by a different content source, a different content provider, a different content
manufacturer, etc. than that of the primary wagering game content).
[0020]     In some examples, a secondary content controller is communicatively coupled
to a wagering game machine. The secondary content controller can be independent of
(e.g., function independently from) the wagering game machine. For example, the
secondary content controller may not be native to the original manufacturing of the
wagering game machine or may be an add-on to the wagering game machine. For
                                                4

instance, the secondary content controller can be inserted into an expansion slot of the
wagering game machine. The secondary content controller includes wireless
communication capabilities, such as a Bluetooth beacon. The secondary content
controller can pair a mobile device to the wagering game machine. The secondary
content controller can further determine appropriate times to pair the mobile device, such
as only when the wagering game machine is being used (e.g., when a wagering game
session ("gaming session") has been initiated, when the wagering game machine has been
funded, etc.).
[0021]    When paired, the mobile device can present content to make a secondary bet on
the primary wagering game content. In some examples, the secondary content controller
can determine when primary wagering game content on the wagering game machine is in
a state that would permit secondary wagering. For example, the secondary content
controller can determine whether the primary wagering game content is in a playing state
that pertains to options for a secondary bet presented on the mobile device. The
secondary content can, via the paired connection with the mobile device, prevent or
enable secondary betting based on the state of the primary wagering game content.
[0022]    In some examples, the secondary content controller can detect and/or intercept
certain communications made by the wagering game machine pertinent to the primary
wagering game content. In some instances, the secondary content controller can function
as a proxy for the communications. For example, the secondary content controller can, as
the proxy, obtain funds from a monetary balance associated with the primary wagering
game content. The secondary content controller can use the funds to fund the one or
more secondary bets related to the secondary content. In some instances, the secondary
content controller can, as the proxy, detect events that occur in the primary wagering
game to determine whether the one or more secondary bets having winning outcomes. In
some instances, the secondary content controller can, as the proxy, add the winnings of
the one or more secondary bets to the monetary balance associated with the primary
wagering game content. Further, the secondary content controller, as the proxy, can
communicate information to an accounting system to ensure that using some of the funds
associated with the primary wagering game content complies with given accounting
                                              5

protocols and rules required by the accounting system for the primary wagering game
content.
[0023]    Figure 1 illustrates an example of conducting one or more secondary bets made
by a mobile device paired with a wagering game machine, according to some
embodiments. In Figure 1, a wagering game system ("system") 100 includes a wagering
game machine 160 and a mobile device 130. The wagering game machine 160 is
configured to present primary wagering game content ("primary content 102"). The
wagering game machine 160 includes components that present and/or control the primary
content 102. For example, a primary content controller 161 associated with the wagering
game machine 160 can present and/or control a wagering game (e.g., the ZEUS wagering
game) associated with the primary content 102 via a display 163, and/or via other output
devices, such as a speakers, peripheral devices, etc. In some embodiments, the primary
content controller 161 is incorporated into the wagering game machine 160. In some
embodiments, the primary content controller 161 is configured for a client-server
architecture. For instance, the primary content controller 161 can control a client
application from the wagering game machine 160. In some embodiments, the client
application is a Rich Internet Application (RIA), such as an application that uses the
Adobe@ Flash@ Platform, the Oracle@ JavaFX@ Platform, the Microsoft@ Silverlight@
Platform, etc. The client application can present the primary content 102 via the
wagering game machine 160. The client application can receive user input, such as a
user selection of a payline control 110 (to select a number of pay lines), a bet-per-payline
control 114 (an amount to bet on each of the pay lines), or a spin control 118 (to spin
virtual reels 108 for the primary content 102). A wagering game server can run a server
application. The server application can receive the user data from the client application.
The server application can generate control data for the primary content 102 in response
to the user data and send the control data to the client application running on the
wagering game machine 160. The client application can receive the control data from the
wagering game server and alter the presentation of the primary content 102 based on the
control data. In some embodiments, the wagering game machine 160 is connected to the
wagering game server via a communications network. Further, in some embodiments,
the primary content 102 originates from a primary game source, such as from a memory
                                               6

device included in the wagering game machine 160 and/or from the wagering game
server external to the wagering game machine 160.
[0024]    The mobile device 130 is configured to present secondary content 103 from
which a secondary bet can be made on whether certain events will occur via the primary
content 102. The mobile device 130 controls and presents the secondary content 103 on a
display 131 of the mobile device 130 at the same time that the primary content 102 is
presented on the display 163 of the wagering game machine 160. In some embodiments,
the secondary content 103 is independent of the primary content 102. For instance, the
primary content 102 may come from a different source and/or a different content provider
than for the secondary content 103 (e.g., the primary content controller 161 controls game
content provided by a first game provider while the mobile device 130 controls content
provided by a different game provider). In some embodiments, the mobile device 130
operates independently from the primary content controller 161. For instance, the mobile
device 130 can have separate hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof,
from that of the primary content controller 161. Further, the mobile device 130 can use
separate processors and separate memory devices than those used by the wagering game
machine 160 and/or the primary content controller 161. Further, the mobile device 130
can run a betting application that is separate and independent from a wagering game
application run by the primary content controller 161.
[0025]    The wagering game machine 160 can include a secondary content controller 162
configured to communicate with internal components and devices of the wagering game
machine 160. In some instances, the secondary content controller 162 is configured to
perform certain functions associated with secondary content 103 (e.g., with secondary
content presented via the wagering game machine 160, with the secondary content 103
presented via the mobile device 130, etc.). For example, the secondary content controller
162 can take funds from a gaming session used for the primary content 102 (e.g., from a
credit meter 120) to pay for the secondary bet.
[0026]    The secondary content controller 162 is also configured to communicate with
devices external to the wagering game machine 160, such as the mobile device 130. For
instance, the secondary content controller 162 can include a wireless beacon that detects
when the mobile device 130 is within a given distance (i.e., proximity range). The
                                               7

secondary content controller 162 can detect a request to pair with the mobile device 130,
such as via a Bluetooth pairing procedure. The secondary content controller 162 can
determine whether the primary content 102 is in a state that would permit pairing. For
example, the secondary content controller 162 can determine whether a gaming session
has been initiated. For instance, the secondary content controller 162 can determine
whether the credit meter 120 is funded. In another instance, the secondary content
controller 162 can determine whether a player has logged into the wagering game
machine 160 using an account-based-wagering (ABW) player account. After pairing
with the mobile device 130, the secondary content controller 162 can initiate a secondary
betting session for the mobile device 130 separate from the gaming session associated
with the primary content 102.
[0027]     Once paired, the mobile device 130 presents, via the display 131, the secondary
content 103. In some embodiments, a mobile application ("app") of the mobile device
130 presents the secondary content 103 via a betting interface 190. The betting interface
190 presents options to make a secondary bet on the primary content 102. For example,
the betting options respond to user input (e.g., selection of user interface objects), which
specify a secondary bet, or "side bet" on whether certain events will occur via the
primary content 102. For example, the betting interface 190 includes a bet type control
105 from which a user can select a type of side bet (e.g., a proposition bet, a matching
bet, etc.). The betting interface 190 also includes a game selection control 107 by which
a user can select a game presented via the wagering game machine 160. In some
embodiments, the game selection control 107 automatically selects the Zeus slot game if
the wagering game machine 160 only offers one wagering game. Furthermore, the
mobile device 130 can present an indicator graphic 109. The indicator graphic 109
specifies the primary content 102 (e.g., the indicator graphic 109 is matched with the
indicator graphic 104 of the primary content 102) . In some embodiments, the secondary
content controller 162 provides the information about the primary content 102 through a
wireless connection made with the mobile device 130.
[0028]     The betting interface 190 further includes a bet parameters section 111. The bet
parameters section 111 includes a bet control 115, which signifies a type of event that
could potentially occur during play of the primary content 102, such as occurrence of a
                                               8

certain symbol 117. A bet control 113 can be selected by the user to specify how many
instances of the symbol 117 should appear in the primary content 102 for the secondary
bet. A bet control 119 can be used to specify how the symbol 117 should appear (e.g., in
a payline, in a primary game, in a bonus game, in a tournament, etc.) A bet control 121
can be used to specify a number of playing rounds by which the secondary bet should
occur (e.g., within a given number of spins, within a short period of time, etc.). The
secondary bet specified in the bet parameters section 111 indicates that the user of the
mobile device bets that five of the symbols 117 will occur in a single payline of the Zeus
game within the next 10 spins of the reels 108. A bet meter 123 indicates the cost
required to make a specific secondary bet. A bet control 125 can be selected to place the
secondary bet. An additional control 127 is configured to make an additional secondary
bet, if desired. In some instances, the secondary content controller 162 is configured to
take credits from the credit meter 120 (associated with the primary content 102) to pay
for the secondary bet. In other words, when the bet control 125 is selected, the secondary
content controller 162 determines whether it is authorized to take funds from the gaming
session for the primary content 102 (such as by taking sufficient credits specified in the
credit meter 120) or whether it must fund the secondary bet in another way (such as by
pulling the funds from a player account independent from the gaming session for the
primary content 102).
[0029]     The secondary bet specified in the bet parameters section 111 is just one
example of a secondary bet. For instance, the secondary bet type control 105 signifies
that the secondary bet is a proposition bet. A proposition bet is a side bet made regarding
either the occurrence or non-occurrence, during a game (usually a gambling game), of an
event in the game. In some instances, the event does not directly affecting the game's
outcome. In other instances the event may be related to an outcome of the game. For
example, the proposition bet may be that a given event will occur which is also an event
specified in a pay table for the primary content 102. In other examples, the given event
may not be specified in a pay table for the primary content 102, but may nonetheless
potentially occur during the primary game presented via the primary content 102. In
other examples, secondary bet type control 105 may specify other types of bets, such as a
"matching" bet, which either mirrors or substantially "matches" a bet made by the player
                                              9

of the primary content 102. For a "matching" type of bet, the bet parameters section 111
may be blank, and the secondary bet would merely match the betting of a player of the
wagering game machine 160. In other examples, for a "matching" type of bet, the bet
parameters section 111 may include controls by which the user can select a multiplier of
the bets made by a player of the wagering game machine 160.
[0030]    In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 162 is configured to
determine whether the primary content 102 is available for secondary betting. For
example, the secondary content controller 162 can determine whether the primary content
102 is in an active playing state that could result in a primary game event that is available
as one of the betting options of the secondary content 103. If the primary content 102 is
in an active playing state (e.g., the reels 108 are spinning), then the secondary content
controller 162 can prevent secondary betting via the mobile device 130 until the primary
content 102 is in a non-active playing state. For instance, the secondary content
controller 162 can send messages to the mobile device 130 (via the pairing) to indicate
when the primary content 102 is in an active playing state and when the primary content
102 is in a non-active playing state or idle state. The mobile device 130 can enable
and/or disable betting options via the secondary content 103 based on the messages
provided by the secondary content controller 162.
[0031]    Further, in some embodiments, the secondary content controller 162 is
configured to detect whether the certain events associated with the secondary bet occur
via the primary content 102. If, according to the occurrence of the events for the primary
content 102, the secondary bet wins, then the secondary content controller 162 is
configured to apply the winnings back to the source from whence the funds for the
secondary bet originated. For example, if the secondary content controller 162 is
authorized to access funds from the gaming session for the primary content 102, then the
secondary content controller 162 can add the winnings back to the credit meter 120. In
another instance, if the secondary content controller 162 took funds from a wagering
game player account, then the secondary content controller 162 can add the winnings
back to the wagering game player account. Further, in some embodiments, if funds for
the bet were taken from the credit meter 120, winnings could be returned to the wagering
game player account, or vice versa.
                                               10

[0032]     Although Figure 1 describes some embodiments, the following sections
describe many other features and embodiments.
                                     Example Operations
[0033]     This section describes operations associated with some embodiments. In the
discussion below, some flow diagrams are described with reference to block diagrams
presented herein. However, in some embodiments, the operations can be performed by
logic not described in the block diagrams.
[0034]     In certain embodiments, the operations can be performed by executing
instructions residing on machine-readable storage media (e.g., software), while in other
embodiments, the operations can be performed by hardware and/or other logic (e.g.,
firmware). In some embodiments, the operations can be performed in series, while in
other embodiments, one or more of the operations can be performed in parallel.
Moreover, some embodiments can perform more or less than all the operations shown in
any flow diagram, or accompanying conceptual diagram.
[0035]    Figure 2 is a flow diagram ("flow") 200 illustrating transacting one or more
secondary bets made by a mobile device paired with a wagering game machine,
according to some embodiments. Figures 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 are conceptual diagrams
that help illustrate the flow of Figure 2, according to some embodiments. This
description will present Figure 2 in concert with Figures 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
[0036]    In Figure 2, the flow 200 begins at processing block 202, where a wagering
game system ("system") associates a mobile device with a wagering game machine
configured to present wagering game content. For example, Figures 3-9 illustrates an
example wagering game system ("system") 300. Referring first to Figure 3, the system
300 includes a wagering game machine 360, a mobile device 330, a secondary content
server 380, a casino accounting system 340, and an account server 370. The system 300
also includes a communications network 321 that connects the wagering game machine
360, the casino accounting system 340, the account server 370, and the secondary content
server 380. The wagering game machine 360 includes a primary content controller 361, a
secondary content controller 362, and a wireless communication unit 363. The mobile
                                               11

device 330 includes a secondary content controller 331 and a wireless communication
unit 333.
[0037]    In some embodiments, the system 300 is configured to associate the mobile
device 330 with the wagering game machine 330. For example, in Figure 4, at stage "A,"
a gaming session is funded. The gaming session provides funds for use with primary
wagering game content similar to how, in Figure 1, the wagering game session for the
primary content 102 was funded such that credits appeared in the credit meter 120 of the
wagering game machine 160. Still referring to Figure 4, in some examples, after the
game session is funded, then the wagering game machine 360 becomes eligible to be
paired with the mobile device 330. For instance, the secondary content controller 362
detects when credits are added to the wagering game machine 360, such as when a
wagering game player enters a ticket with monetary value into a ticket entry system
incorporated into the wagering game machine 360. In some embodiments, when credits
are added to the wagering game machine 360, the primary content controller 361 sends a
communication to the casino accounting system 340. The secondary content controller
362 can detect the communication made with the casino accounting system 340 and, in
return, communicate with the wireless communication unit 363 that the wagering game
machine 360 is eligible to be paired for secondary bets.
[0038]    In some examples, the casino accounting system 340 is a casino accounting host
configured to communicate with the wagering game machine 360 to send, and receive,
financial data (e.g., accounting data) for financial transactions related to wagering games
presented on the wagering game machine 360. In some embodiments, the casino
accounting system 340 is incorporated into, or directly connected to, the wagering game
machine 360. For instance, the casino accounting system 340 may be contained entirely
within the cabinet or casing for the wagering game machine 360. The casino accounting
system 340 may be embedded into the wagering game machine 360, included on the
motherboard of the wagering game machine 360, attached as a daughterboard, plugged
into a backplane or riser card expansion slot of the motherboard of the wagering game
machine 360, etc. In other embodiments, however, the casino accounting system 340
may be separate from the wagering game machine 360. For example, the casino
                                               12

accounting system 340 may be incorporated into a server separate from the wagering
game machine 360.
[0039]    In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 is contained within
the wagering game machine 360. For example, the secondary content controller 362 may
be contained entirely within a cabinet or casing for the wagering game machine 360. In
some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 may be embedded into the
wagering game machine 360 as an embedded system, a Slot Machine Interface Board
(SMIB), a single board computer, a single board smart interface, a system host board, etc.
In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 may be included on a
motherboard of the wagering game machine 360 or attached as a daughterboard. In some
embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 may be plugged into a backplane or
riser card expansion slot of a motherboard of the wagering game machine 360. Examples
of expansion slots may include an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) expansion slot, a
Conventional Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) expansion slot, a PCI eXtended
(PCI-X) expansion slot, a PCI Express (PCI-e) expansion slot, and so forth. In some
embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 is connected via a serial link to the
primary game controller 361.
[0040]    In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 is independent from
the primary content controller 361, the casino accounting system 340, and/or other
elements of the wagering game machine 360 that were originally incorporated into the
wagering game machine 360 by a manufacturer of the wagering game machine 360. For
example, in some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 may be
incorporated into a part of the wagering game machine 360 after the wagering game
machine 360 has been manufactured and/or shipped to a casino. In some embodiments,
the secondary content controller 362 is incorporated into a device separate from the
wagering game machine 360. The separate device can be communicatively coupled to
the wagering game machine 360, such as via a wired connection or a wireless link.
[0041]    In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 is dedicated for
communications using the Slot Accounting System (SAS) protocol commercially
available from International Game Technology (IGT) of Las Vegas, Nevada. Therefore,
in some examples, the secondary content controller 362 communicates with the primary
                                             13

content controller 361 using the SAS protocol. The secondary content controller 362 can
intercept SAS communications made by the primary content controller 361 to one or
more internal components of the wagering game machine 360 and/or to one or more
devices external to the wagering game machine 360, such as to the casino accounting
system 340. For instance, the secondary content controller 362 intercepts SAS
communications made by the primary content controller 361 that are directed to the
casino accounting system 340. For example, the secondary content controller 362
determines, based on the intercepted SAS communications, that funds were added to the
gaming session of the wagering game machine 360.
[0042]    At stage, "B," the secondary content controller 362 communicates with the
wireless communication unit 363 to begin to transmit a pairing beacon signal. In some
embodiments, the wireless communication unit 363 is incorporated onto the secondary
content controller 362. In other embodiments, the wireless communication unit 363 is
separate from the secondary content controller 362. In some embodiments, when the
wireless communication unit 363 begins transmitting the pairing beacon, the secondary
content controller 162 can cause a visual indicator to appear on the wagering game
machine 360 (e.g., a specific colored light effect associated with the secondary content
controller 362, such as a blue and green flashing LED light effect).
[0043]    At stage "D," the secondary content controller 362 is configured to generate
pairing data 414 that will securely link the secondary content controller 362 to the mobile
device 330. The wireless communication unit communicates some, or all, of the pairing
data 414 to the wireless communication unit 333 of the mobile device 330. The pairing
data 414 can include a pairing identifier that uniquely identifies the pairing session
between the mobile device 330 and the secondary content controller 362. The pairing
identifier can be used at another stage to associate a secondary bet to the pairing. In some
embodiments, the wireless communication unit 363 utilizes a wireless technology
standard for exchanging data over short distances. In some examples, the wireless
technology standard is the Bluetooth wireless technology standard, which uses short
wavelength Ultra-High-Frequency (UHF) radio waves in the ISM band from 2.4 to
2.485 GHz, and which has a range of about 60 meters. In some embodiments, the
wagering game machine 360 may be placed on a casino floor, or other location, with
                                              14

various other wagering game machines in close proximity. Therefore, in some
embodiments, the wireless communication unit 363 is configured to limit a wireless
broadcast range for pairing signals to approximately 0.5 to 1 meter. Because the wireless
communication unit 353 broadcasts a limited range, then only mobile devices within that
range will detect the signal. Likewise, if other nearby wagering game machines
broadcast in limited ranges, the mobile device 330 will detect fewer pairing signals from
the other wagering game machines.
[0044]   In some examples, at stage "D," the secondary content controller 362 can
determine whether primary wagering game content is in a state that would permit pairing.
For example, the secondary content controller 362 can determine whether a gaming
session has been initiated via the wagering game machine 360. For instance, the
secondary content controller 362 can determine whether a credit meter is funded. In
another instance, the secondary content controller 362 can determine whether a player
has logged into the wagering game machine 360 using an account-based-wagering
(ABW) player account. The description for Figure 10 describes various examples of how
a secondary content controller can determine whether a mobile device should be paired
based on a state of primary wagering game content. If the primary wagering game
content is in a state that would permit pairing, then the secondary content controller 362
enables the pairing. If not, then the secondary content controller 362 prevents the
pairing.
[0045]   At stage "C," the mobile device 330 responds to the pairing beacon by launching
a native application ("app") related to secondary betting. In some embodiments, the
pairing beacon is coded in a certain way to be recognized by the app of the mobile device
330. For example, when the mobile device 330 comes within the communication range
of the wireless communication unit 363, the app "wakes up" on the mobile device 330.
The app on the mobile device 330 can specify a pairing with the particular wagering
game machine 330. For example, if the secondary content controller 362 causes the
wagering game machine 360 to present a visual indicator regarding the pairing (e.g., the
blue and green flashing LED lights), the app can indicate in a message that states, for
instance, "Pair with the wagering game machine that has the blue and green flashing
lights?" The user of the mobile device 330 could then acknowledge whether or not to
                                              15

pair with the wagering game machine 360 that has the visual indicator. For example, the
user could select a button in the app that is marked "Initiate Pairing." The button can
have a blue and green flashing effect surrounding the button, which corresponds to the
blue and green flashing effect on the wagering game machine 360. When the button is
selected, the pairing procedure between the mobile device 330 and the secondary content
controller 362 would be initiated.
[0046]    In some examples, the secondary content controller 362 can detect whether the
player of the wagering game machine 360 should be notified of the pairing. If the player
is notified, and authorizes the pairing, then, at a different stage, the secondary content
controller 362 will have the option of using funds from the wagering game machine 360
to fund secondary bets made via the mobile device 330. In some examples, the
secondary content controller 362 can detect whether the mobile device 330 has
identification data that matches corresponding data for the gaming session of the
wagering game machine 360. For instance, the mobile device 330 or the app may store in
settings identifying information about the player (e.g., a configuration setting that
indicates the owner of the mobile device, contact information for the user stored in a
profile related to the app, etc.). In other examples, the user of the mobile device 330 may
have to sign in to the app using a user identifier (e.g., a user ID and password, a name, a
code, etc.). The mobile device 330 can communicate the identifier, or information
associated with the identifier (e.g., the user ID and/or password, the name, the code, etc.).
The secondary content controller 362 can determine whether matching information is
stored for the gaming session on the wagering game machine 360. For instance, if the
player of the wagering game machine 360 has provided a matching user identifier (e.g., a
matching user ID and/or password, a matching name, a matching code, etc.) then the
secondary content controller 362 can compare the identifiers and/or associated
information, to detect a match. In some embodiments, the app could present a prompt via
the mobile device 330 to ask whether the player of the wagering game machine 360
should be notified about the pairing (e.g., a prompt that states "Request authorization to
access gaming funds from the wagering game machine?"). If the secondary content
controller 362 detects that the player of the wagering game machine 360 should be
                                               16

notified of the pairing, then the secondary content controller 362 requests a response from
the player.
[0047]    In other embodiments, however, the secondary content controller 362 does not
notify the player of the pairing. For instance, if the user of the mobile device 330 wants
to use their own player account to fund secondary bets, then the secondary bet may be
independent of any funds associated with the gaming session on the wagering game
machine 360. Thus, if the secondary content controller 362 determines that the player
should not be notified (e.g., the user of the mobile device 330 indicated not to notify the
player of the wagering game machine 360, the identifying information from the mobile
device 330 does not match identifying information from the wagering game machine 360,
etc.), then the secondary content controller 362 does not notify the player and the pairing
continues. In some examples, the secondary content controller 362 may require a pairing
code and/or an authorization code be entered into a user interface for the wagering game
machine 360. For instance, the app on the mobile device 330 may generate an
authorization code (e.g., a personal identifier number (PIN)) that the player of the
wagering game machine 360 must enter into the wagering game machine 360 to
authorize funds sharing. The mobile device 330 submits the authorization code to the
secondary content controller 362 so that the secondary content controller 362 can
compare the authorization code when it is entered into the wagering game machine 360.
The wagering game machine 360 then presents a prompt for the authorization code via
the user interface of the wagering game machine 360. If the player of the wagering game
machine 360 is the same as the user of the mobile device 330 or if the player of the
wagering game machine 360 desires to provide the user of the mobile device 330 access
to funds from the gaming session, then the player can enter the authorization code into
the user interface. Otherwise, the player can deny the request.
[0048]    At stage "D" and "E," the secondary content controller 362 and the secondary
content controller 331 perform respective pairing procedures to link the wagering game
machine 360 to the mobile device 330. For example, the secondary content controller
362 transmits the pairing identifier to the secondary content controller 331. The
secondary content controller 331 can acknowledge the pairing identifier. The pairing
                                              17

establishes a Bluetooth connection 320 between the secondary content controller 362 and
the secondary content controller 331.
[0049]    In some embodiments, for security purposes, only one mobile device might may
be permitted to be pair with a wagering game machine at the same time. Yet, in other
embodiments, multiple mobile devices can be paired with a single wagering game
machine. For example, if all of the mobile devices are part of a shared community game
or if multiple users want to bet on activity of the player of the wagering game machine
360. In this case, each of the users of the multiple mobile devices may utilize separate
wagering game player accounts ("player accounts") of an Account Based Wagering
System (ABWS) to fund their individual secondary bets via their respective mobile
devices. In some embodiments, users of the mobile devices can transfer coins between
player accounts using a mobile device app installed on each of the mobile devices. This
could be done by Advanced Funds Transfers (AFTs) between the player accounts.
[0050]    As previously mentioned, the wagering game machine 360 may present a visual
indicator regarding the pairing (e.g., blue and green flashing LED lights). The app can
also present a matching visual indicator (e.g., a blue and green flashing effect
surrounding a button) so that the user of the mobile device 330 can be visually informed
that the pairing will be with the wagering game machine 360. When the secondary
content controller 362 and the mobile device 330 are paired, the visual indicator
presented via the wagering game machine 360 can change to signify the pairing (e.g., the
blue and green flashing LED lights displayed on the wagering game machine 360 can
change to a non-flashing blue light). Similarly, the matching visual indicator on the app
can change to signify the pairing (e.g., the blue and green flashing indicator on the app
can change to a non-flashing blue light).
[0051]    Referring momentarily back to Figure 2, the flow 200 continues at processing
block 204, where the system detects initiation of a secondary bet on a potential
occurrence of an event of the wagering game content. The secondary bet is initiated by
the mobile device. For example, in Figure 4, at stage "F," after the pairing procedure is
completed, the secondary content controller 331 of the mobile device 330 establishes a
secure wireless link with the secondary content server 380 via a secure wireless network
322. Information from the wagering game machine 360, such as information about the
                                              18

primary wagering game content, information about funding, etc., can be communicated,
via the communications network 321, between the secondary content controller 362 and
the secondary content server 380. The secondary content server 380 can then send the
information to the secondary content controller 331 (via the wireless communication unit
333) using the secure wireless link.
[0052]   At stage "G," the secondary content controller 362 communicates data 365
regarding the primary wagering game content. For example, the secondary content
controller 362 can send to the mobile device 330 information that explains what primary
wagering game content is being played on the wagering game machine 360. The
secondary content controller 362 can also send to the mobile device 330 information
about game elements, game functions, game history, player data, etc., that can result in
events that may possibly occur during the gaming session. The information can be used
to present possible betting parameters via the app of the mobile device 330, which betting
parameters are related to events of the gaming session related to the primary wagering
game content. For example, referring momentarily back to Figure 1, when the mobile
device 131 is paired with the wagering game machine 160, the secondary content 103 can
show the indicator graphic 109 that specifies the name of the wagering game presented in
the primary content 102. The secondary content 103 also presents the symbol 117 in the
bet control. To provide the indicator graphic 109 and/or the symbol 117, the app
associated with the secondary content 103 needs information about what the wagering
game was presented via the primary content 102 and what the potential events might be
for the wagering game (e.g., what are the symbols of the wagering game that might occur
for various stop-reel configurations). Consequently, the secondary content controller 162
can transmit that information about the primary wagering game to the mobile device 130.
Likewise, referring back to Figure 4, at stage "G," the secondary content controller 362
sends to the mobile device the information 365 associated with the primary wagering
game content.
[0053]   In some embodiments, at stage "H," after the secondary content controller 362
sends the information 365 to the secondary content server 380, the secondary content
server 380 uses the information 365 to determine the secondary content to provide to the
app, and then provides secondary content data 381 to the mobile device 330. For
                                             19

instance, the secondary content server 380 may provide theme information, icons, or
other information/content relevant to the primary wagering game. The app can use the
information and content to present the bet possibilities. In some examples, the secondary
content server 380 can generate a list of possible game events to present in the app of the
mobile device 330. For instance, the secondary content server 380 may (a) generate
entries for a dropdown menu or list of events for secondary wagers, (b) specify types of
events that may occur in a primary wagering game, (c) specify functions or settings of the
primary wagering game, etc. For example, if the secondary content server 380 were used
in Figure 1, the secondary content server 380 could determine the information to put into
the bet parameters section 111 based on the content elements, functions, etc. of the
primary content 102. For instance, the secondary content server 380 could determine
what all of the possible reel symbols were for the Zeus game and provide the symbols to
the mobile device 130 to specify a dropdown listing of all of the symbols in the bet
control 115. The secondary content server 380 could further determine a maximum
number of symbols that might appear in a payline of the Zeus game (e.g., a five reel game
can have a maximum of five symbols in a row) and, thus, limit the number in the second
secondary content control 113 to be a maximum of five. The secondary content server
380 can further determine that the Zeus game is a "slot" type of game (e.g., as opposed to
a card game or some other type of game), and therefore determine that the information in
the bet control 119 should be related to slot types of games (e.g., paylines occur in a slot
type of game, whereas "hands" occur in a card type of game). The secondary content
server 380 could include in the bet control 119 items that may, in some instances, be
directly associated with a game outcome for the primary wagering game, a payable event
of the primary wagering game, etc. For example the bet control 119 specifies that an
event occurs in a payline (used for determine game payouts in the primary game). In
other examples, however, the secondary content server 380 could include in the bet
control 119 items that may not be directly related to a game outcome or payable event.
For example, the bet control 119 could specify that the symbol 117 could appear in rows
and/or columns of the reels 108 (e.g., anywhere on the reels, all in one reel, or a specific
geometrical pattern across the reels, etc.) versus only being in a payline that is spread
horizontally across symbols from all five of the reels 108. The secondary content server
                                              20

380 could further determine an amount for the secondary bet specified in the bet meter
123 based on odds of occurrence of the event or events specified in the bet parameters
section 111.
[0054]    Though not shown, in some embodiments, other controls for the secondary
content 103 may instead, or in addition, include controls to predict a timing for the
event(s), a location for the event(s), a pattern for the event(s), conditions for the event(s),
etc. For example, the controls could specify whether the event(s) occur in a primary
wagering game versus in a bonus game or a secondary wagering game. In some
examples, the controls could specify whether the event(s) occur in the gaming session for
the primary content 102 or in another game for another player in a tournament or
community game. In some examples, the controls could specify whether the event(s)
occur within a given time period. In some examples, the controls could specify whether
specific reel symbols will appear in specific sequences. In some examples, the controls
could specify whether a certain number of wins or losses will occur within a given
number of game play rounds or a time period.
[0055]    Referring back to Figure 4, at stage "H", the secondary content server 380 sends
to the mobile device 330, via the secure wireless network 322, secondary content data
381 (e.g., the data that specifies the secondary content to present via the app). In some
instances, the app on the mobile device 330 already includes specific content to present
(e.g., the app includes reels symbols, possible events, etc. related to a variety of primary
wagering games). The secondary content server 380 and/or the secondary content
controller 362 may only need to identify the primary wagering game being played on the
wagering game machine 360. In some embodiments, the secondary content controller
362 can also send information directly to the mobile device 330 regarding the wagering
game machine 360, regarding the primary content, regarding events, etc. The secondary
content controller 362 can send the information directly to the mobile device 330 via the
Bluetooth connection 320.
[0056]    Furthermore, in some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 and/or
the secondary content server 380 can send to the mobile device 330 additional content
that adds to the experience of being paired with the wagering game machine 360. For
example, the secondary content controller 362 and/or the secondary content server 380
                                               21

can send to the mobile device 330 side games to play along with the primary wagering
game content, bonus rounds that connect to the primary wagering game content, etc.
[0057]    Still referring to Figure 4, at stage "I," the secondary content controller 331
presents, via the app, secondary content associated with the secondary content data 381.
For instance, the secondary content controller 331 presents the secondary content 103
shown in Figure 1. In some examples, at stage "I," the secondary content controller 362
can determine whether primary wagering game content is in a state that would permit
secondary betting on the primary wagering game content. For example, the secondary
content controller 362 can determine whether the primary wagering game content is in an
active playing state that could result in a primary game event that is available as one of
the betting options of the secondary content. If the primary wagering game content is in
an active playing state then the secondary content controller 362 can prevent secondary
betting via the mobile device 330 until the primary wagering game content is in a non
active playing state. For instance, the secondary content controller 362 can send
messages to the mobile device 330 (via the Bluetooth connection 320) to indicate when
the primary wagering game content is in an active playing state and when the primary
wagering game content is in a non-active playing state (e.g., an idle state or any other
state that would not result in a primary game event indicated on a betting option of the
secondary content). The secondary content controller 331 of the mobile device 330 can
enable and/or disable betting options via the secondary content based on the messages
provided by the secondary content controller 362. The description for Figure 11
describes several examples of how a secondary content controller can determine whether
primary wagering game content is in a state that would permit secondary betting.
[0058]    In Figure 4, at stage "J," the secondary content controller 331, in response to
user input via the app, initiates a secondary bet (e.g., in response to selection of the bet
control 125 shown in Figure 1). In one example, the app provides a menu to select "Five
of-a-kind" proposition bet (meaning that the proposition bet will be that either the
player's hand on the wagering game machine 360, or some other character's hand in the
primary wagering game, will show a "five-of-a-kind" within a certain number of playing
rounds). Other examples of proposition bets ("prop bets") can be based on any type of
event in the primary wagering game, such as a symbol combination prop bet where a
                                                22

side-bet is placed on whether a certain combination of symbols appear in the primary
game (as depicted in Figure 1). Another example is a bonus multiplier prop bet where a
side bet is placed to predict that if a bonus game occurs in a given number of subsequent
game-play rounds (e.g., next 10 spins) of the primary wagering game, then a multiplier
will apply in the bonus game. In some examples, if the bonus game does not trigger
within the subsequent number of game play rounds, then a bonus round can be triggered
without the multiplier. Another example of a prop bet is a side bet that predicts whether a
certain number of win streaks or lose streaks will occur within a given number of
subsequent game-play rounds of the primary wagering game. Another example of a prop
bet is a side bet that predicts whether a winning hand is placed on a deal. Another
example of a prop bet includes a side bet that is based on a collection of a certain number
of game play hands (e.g., collecting a certain type of 4 of a kind hands and placing them
on a bingo card).
[0059]    After the secondary bet is initiated, the secondary content controller 331 sends
secondary bet data 334 to the secondary content server 380. For instance, the secondary
content controller 331 sends a signal to the secondary content server 380 that the bet
control 125 (shown in Figure 1) was selected. In some examples, the secondary content
controller 331 may also send to the secondary content server 380 all information
specified in the betting interface 190 that is pertinent to the secondary bet. In other
instances, some, or all, of the information shown by the app (e.g., shown in the betting
interface 190 of Figure 1) may be stored on the secondary content server 380 (e.g., as
soon as each of the betting controls is specified) and stored there until the secondary bet
is activated (e.g., until the bet control 125 of Figure 1 is activated).
[0060]    Referring still to Figure 4, at stage "K," the secondary content server 380
requests funds for the secondary bet. In some embodiments, the secondary content server
380 sends a funds request 382 to one or more of the secondary content controller 362 and
the account server 370, depending on whether or not the secondary content controller 362
has been authorized to use funds from the gaming session. In some embodiments, the
secondary content server 380 requests the funds as soon as the secondary content server
380 has all of the secondary bet data 334 pertinent to the secondary bet (e.g., after stage
"J"). However, in other examples, the secondary content server 380 could obtain funds
                                                23

for the secondary bet prior to the secondary bet being made (e.g., prior to the bet control
125 of Figure 1 being activated) or while the parameters for the secondary bet are being
set (e.g., while the controls in the bet parameters section 111 are being set).
[0061]     Returning momentarily to Figure 2, the flow 200 continues at processing block
206, where the system determines whether there is authorization to access session funds
for the wagering game content. For example, Figures 5 and 6 illustrate two different
ways of obtaining funds for the secondary bet. The first way, shown in Figure 5,
illustrates an example of obtaining funds from the gaming session of the wagering game
machine 360. Figure 5 is pertinent to processing block 208. The second way, shown in
Figure 6, illustrates an example of obtaining funds from a player account. Figure 6 is
pertinent to processing block 210.
[0062]     Referring first to the example of Figure 5, at stage "Li," the secondary content
controller 362 receives the request for funds made by the secondary content server 380
and determines that it is authorized to access game funds. For instance, the secondary
content controller 362 can determine whether the player of the wagering game machine
360 has authorized the mobile device 330 to use gaming funds. For instance, the app of
the mobile device 330 can present a prompt that states, "Request authorization to access
gaming funds from the wagering game machine?" The secondary content controller 362
then presents a prompt to the player of the wagering game machine 360 to authorize use
of the funds. In some embodiments, during the pairing procedure explained in Figure 3,
the secondary content controller 362 can require a pairing code and/or an authorization
code (e.g., a PIN) be entered into a user interface for the wagering game machine 360. If
the pairing code and/or authorization code are entered at that time, and acknowledged by
the player of the wagering game machine 360, then the secondary content controller 362
can determine, at stage "LI," that it has authority to access funds from the gaming
session. In other examples, the secondary content controller 362 determines, implicitly,
that access to the gaming session funds are authorized. For example, the secondary
content controller 362 can detect identifying information associated with the gaming
session and with the mobile device 330 to determine if they match. For example, the
player may have logged into the wagering game machine 360 by using a username and
password, by using a player tracking card, by entering a PIN, etc. The username and
                                               24

password, identifiers for the player tracking card, the PIN, etc. may be stored on the
mobile device 330 or associated with the app. The secondary content controller 362 can
automatically detect the identifying information provided during logon to the wagering
game machine 360 and compare it with the data stored on the mobile device 330. If the
comparison results in a match, then the secondary content controller 362 can, without
explicit acknowledgement by the player of the wagering game machine 360, determine
that the secondary content controller 362 is authorized to access gaming session funds.
[0063]    Still referring to stage "Li," after the secondary content controller 362
determines that it is authorized to access session funds for the gaming session of the
wagering game machine 360, the secondary content controller 362 requests a portion of
game session funds equivalent to an amount of the secondary bet.
[0064]    Returning momentarily to Figure 2, the flow 200 continues at processing block
208, where the system obtains at least a portion of the session funds to fund the
secondary bet. Again, Figure 5 illustrates some examples. Referring again to Figure 5,
as mentioned previously, at stage "Li," the secondary content controller 362 requests a
portion of game session funds. At stage "Ml," the primary content controller then
transfers the funds using a SAS communication that indicates credit data 541.
[0065]    Referring to stage "Li," in some examples, the secondary content controller 362
transfers funds to the secondary content server 380 using SAS spoofing. The secondary
content controller 362 then makes the casino accounting system 340 aware of the
reduction in game credits on the wagering game machine 360, via AFT, as if the credits
were bets for the primary wagering game, even though they are secondary bets on the
secondary content. The casino accounting system 340 is configured to receive data
messages from, and send data messages to, either or both of the primary content
controller 361 and the secondary content controller 362. For example, the casino
accounting system 340 is configured to send and receive data messages using the SAS
protocol. The casino accounting system 340 is configured to perform operations that can
separately account for certain financial transactions made for the primary wagering game
content. For example, the casino accounting system 340 is configured to communicate
with the primary content controller 361 to account for financial data associated when
monetary value is added to a credit meter for the primary wagering game content, when
                                                25

bets are made for the primary wagering game content, when winning outcomes occur for
the primary wagering game content, when win amounts are added to the credit meter,
when a balance of funds (e.g., an amount in the credit meter) is cashed out of the
wagering game machine 360, or for any other type of financial activity associated with
the primary wagering game content.
[0066]    In some embodiments, the primary content controller 361 is specifically
manufactured and/or configured by the same game provider that manufactures the
wagering game machine 360. Thus, in some examples, the programming for the primary
content controller 361 is specifically configured for use with the wagering game machine
360. Further, the secondary content controller 362 may originate from a different
manufacturer than the manufacturer for the wagering game machine 360 or the primary
content controller 361. The secondary content may come from a third-party source
separate from a game provider for the primary wagering game content. Therefore, in
some embodiments, the primary content controller 361, and various financial related
elements of the wagering game machine 360 (e.g., the ticket-in-ticket-out system, the
betting controls, the cash-out button, the ticket printer, etc.) may be specifically
programmed to respond for only the primary wagering game content and not for the
secondary content or the mobile device 330. As such, the primary content controller 361
may be configured to communicate directly with the casino accounting system 340 and
not with the secondary content controller 362.
[0067]    According to some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 is
configured to send commands to the primary content controller 361 that would cause the
primary content controller 361 to send a communication to the casino accounting system
340 regarding the amount of funds requested from the gaming session. For example, the
secondary content controller 362 spoofs the casino accounting system 340 and sends a
SAS command to the primary content controller 361 to transfer a certain amount of funds
to the casino accounting system 340.
[0068]    Referring now to stage "Ml," when the primary content controller 361 transfers
the funds (using a SAS communication that indicates credit data 541), the credit meter on
the wagering game machine 360 reduces by the amount for the secondary bet specified in
the credit data 541. In some examples, the wagering game machine 360 has a credit
                                              26

meter, but the app on the mobile device 330 does not. Individual credits can be
transferred from the credit meter on the wagering game machine 360 when needed for a
secondary bet of the app on the mobile device 130. In other examples, however, more
credits can be transferred from the credit meter than are needed for one secondary bet.
For example, the app on the mobile device 330 may have a second credit meter. Some,
or all, of the funds can be transferred off the wagering game machine 360 and stored via
the secondary content server 380 and/or via the mobile device 330. If the all of the funds
are transferred to the mobile device 330, the mobile device 330 (and/or the secondary
content server 380) can transfer funds back to the wagering game machine 360 for bets
made on the primary wagering game content (which could then cause the first credit
meter on the wagering game machine 360 to have credits). In some examples, some
funds are on the first credit meter for multiple primary game bets and some funds are on
the second credit meter for multiple secondary bets. The wagering game machine 360
can access the funds from the first credit meter for bets made for the primary wagering
game content. The mobile device 330 can access the funds from the second credit meter
for secondary bets.
[0069]     Referring still to stage "Ml," the primary content controller transfers the funds
using a SAS communication that indicates the credit data 541. The credit data 541 is
directed to the casino accounting system 340. However, the secondary content controller
362 intercepts the credit data 541 sent by the primary content controller 361 and spoofs
the casino accounting system 340. In other words, the secondary content controller 362
intercepts messages sent by the primary content controller 361 to the casino accounting
system 340, uses data from the messages, and then sends modified data to the casino
accounting system 340. For instance, at stage "Ni," the secondary content server 362
intercepts the credit data 541 and sends a modified SAS message to the casino accounting
system 340. The modified SAS message indicates that the amount of funds from the
credit data 541 was actually spent on a wager on the primary wagering game, even
though the funds are not spent on a wager of the primary wagering game. In some
embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 provides SAS communications to the
secondary content server 380 (e.g., money transactions, play activity of the wagering
game machine 360, etc.) and/or to any other device or component associated with a
                                               27

wagering game network (e.g., to a primary wagering game server, to an account-based
wagering server, etc.), in addition to sending SAS communications to the primary content
controller 361 and the casino accounting system 340.
[0070]    At stage "01," the secondary content controller 362 can associate the funds with
the pairing identifier and then send funds data 583 to secondary content server 380. The
funds data 583 can specify the amount of the funds from the credit data 541 as well as the
pairing identifier.
[0071]    At stage "P1," the secondary content server 380 transacts the secondary bet. For
example, the secondary content server 380 creates a secondary session account (e.g., an
anonymous account) into which the funds are deposited for secondary bets. In some
embodiments, the secondary session account may be created earlier, such as when the
wagering game machine 360 and the mobile device 330 are paired. A "virtual wallet"
program of the secondary content sever 380 controls the funds in the secondary session
account. As a security measure, the virtual wallet program may require the pairing
identifier before it will deposit funds into the secondary session account. In some
embodiments, the secondary session account is a floating session account such that when
the mobile device 330 is unpaired with the wagering game machine 330, the credits can
remain with the mobile device 330 (and/or with the secondary content server 380) until
the mobile device 330 pairs with another wagering game machine.
[0072]    Also at stage "P1," the secondary content server 380 sends data 535 to the
mobile device 330 via the secure wireless network 322. The data 535 indicates that the
secondary bet was transacted. The mobile device 330 receives the data 535 and the app
indicates that the secondary bet was transacted. For example, the app can show an
indicator that the secondary bet was placed. In some embodiments, the secondary
content controller 331 can show a secondary credit meter that increments in the app for
the amount of the bet, and then decrements when the bet is made. In other embodiments,
however, the app does not show a credit meter. Further, in some embodiments, after the
mobile device 330 receives the data 535, if there is a time parameter or playing round
parameter associated with the secondary bet, the app can begin counting down the time
and/or the number of playing rounds of the primary wagering game.
                                               28

[0073]    In some embodiments, the secondary content server 380 can communicate
directly with the casino accounting system 340 and/or with the account server 370. For
example, the secondary content server 380 can send SAS commands or instructions
directly to the casino accounting system 340 instead of, or in addition to, sending SAS
communications to the secondary content controller 362.
[0074]    Returning momentarily to Figure 2, at processing block 206, if the system
determines that there is no authorization to access session funds for the wagering game
content, then, at processing block 210, the system obtains funds for the secondary bet
from a player account independent of the game session for the wagering game content
[0075]    As mentioned previously, Figure 5 illustrated an example of taking funds from a
gaming session for the wagering game machine 360. In other examples, such as that
shown in Figure 6, the funds from the gaming session are not accessible for use with
secondary bets. For instance, Figure 5 may be pertinent to a scenario where a first player
is playing on the wagering game machine 360 and the first player wants to side-bet on the
events for the wagering game machine 360. Thus, the same player can pair the mobile
device 330 to the wagering game machine 360 and authorize access to the gaming session
funds for the wagering game machine 360. In other embodiments, however,
authorization may not be given to access the gaming session funds for the wagering game
machine 360. For example, the player may not give authorization to access the gaming
session funds for the wagering game machine 360 and may instead prefer to make
secondary bets using a separate player account. Similarly, a second player may want to
side-bet on the events for the wagering game machine 360 and does not have authority to
access the gaming session funds. In such a scenario, then either the first player or the
second player may pair the mobile device 330 with the wagering game machine 360 and
side bet using the separate player account. In the example where a first player is playing
on the wagering game machine 360 and a second, separate player is using the mobile
device 330, the second player may request to pair the mobile device 330 with the
wagering game machine 360. The operations of Stages "A" through "K" shown in
Figure 4 could be performed to pair the second player's mobile device (e.g., mobile
device 330) to the wagering game machine 360. The operations of stages "Li" through
"Pl" shown in Figure 5, however, may not be applicable to that scenario (unless the first
                                             29

player at the wagering game machine 360 were to authorize the second player to use the
first player's funds on the wagering game machine 360). In an example where the second
player does not have access to the first player's funds, the operations of Stages "L2"
through "P2" in Figure 6 are applicable.
[0076]    In Figure 6, the mobile device 330 must use a separate account to fund
secondary bets. No money is transferred from the wagering game machine 360 to the
mobile device 330 or to the secondary content server 380. Instead, money is transferred
from the account server 370 to the mobile device 330 and/or to the secondary content
server 380.
[0077]    Referring to Figure 6, at Stage "L2" the secondary content controller 362
determines that it is not authorized to access funds from the gaming session. In some
embodiments, in response to determining that it does not have access to funds from the
gaming session, the secondary content controller 362 notifies the secondary content
server 380 so that the secondary content server 380 can request funds from the account
server 370. In other embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 can make the
request for funds directly to the account server 370. The account server 370 can provide
the funds to the secondary content server 380 via the communications network 362. For
instance, the secondary content controller 362 can detect login credentials for the player
account stored on the account server 370. The login credentials may be provided during
the pairing operation with the mobile device 330 (e.g., a user of the mobile device 330
provides their login credentials into the app, and the app communicates those credentials
to the secondary content controller 362). In yet other embodiments, the secondary
content server 380 can request funds from the account server 370 prior to, or instead of,
the secondary content controller 362 determining that it is unauthorized to access game
session funds. In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 380 requests
funds from the account server 370, and notifies the secondary content controller 362 that
funds were requested from the player account for the secondary bet.
[0078]    At stage "M2," the secondary content server 380 requests funds from the player
account to pay for the secondary bet. In one example, the secondary content controller
362 detects login credentials for the player account stored on the account server 370. For
example, the login credentials may be provided via the app on the mobile device 330.
                                              30

For instance, when the mobile device 330 pairs with the wagering game machine 360, the
app can require login credentials for the player account. In other embodiments, if the
mobile device 330 does not pair with the wagering game machine 360, when the user
launches the app, the app can require login credentials for the player account. The app
communicates those credentials to the secondary content server 380. The app can present
a credit meter that shows an amount of credits in the player account.
[0079]    In some embodiments, the player account can provide funds for any fee
associated with wagering game machine 360 and/or the mobile device 330. For example,
tournament fees can be paid from the player account prior to pairing. The tournament
may be related to games played on the wagering game machine 360 and/or to possible
secondary bets made via the app on the mobile device 330.
[0080]    At stage "N2," the account server 370 receives the request for the user account
and accesses the user account (e.g., using the login credentials provided by the secondary
content server 380). The account server 370 then transfers and/or transacts the amount of
funds needed for the secondary bet from the player account (e.g., the account server 370
provides transaction data 684 which identifies the funding for the secondary bet). In
some embodiments, at stage "02," the secondary content controller 362 can detect the
communication made by the account server 370 regarding the funds for the secondary
bet. The secondary content controller 362 can provide the pairing identifier 683 to
identify that the funding is associated with a paired session between the mobile device
330 and the wagering game machine 360.
[0081]    At stage "P2," the secondary content server 380 transacts the secondary bet
(e.g., provides data 635 which indicates that the funds were attained for the secondary bet
and that the secondary bet was transacted). If a credit meter for the player account is
shown in the app, then the credit meter decrements by the amount of the secondary bet.
[0082]    Returning momentarily to Figure 2, the flow 200 continues at processing block
212, where the system detects occurrence of the event via game play of the wagering
game content. Figure 7 illustrates an example. Referring to Figure 7, at stage "Q," the
primary content controller 361 continues to present the primary game content. The
primary content controller 361 generates primary game event data 765 for any events that
                                              31

occur in the primary game content, such a via a game, or a series of games, presented via
the primary wagering game content.
[0083]    At stage "R," the secondary content controller 362 detects the events from the
primary game event data 765. The secondary content controller 362 can send to the
secondary content server 380 data 785 that identifies events from the primary game event
data 764. In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 filters the primary
game events and sends, in the data 785, only information about relevant events to the
secondary bet (e.g., the secondary content controller 362 has a filter that detects when an
event is relevant to betting parameters set for the secondary bet). In other embodiments,
the data 785 includes all primary game event data, which the secondary content server
380 can parse and/or analyze to determine which of the data is relevant to the secondary
bet.
[0084]    In some embodiments, the secondary content controller 362 sends game event
data directly to the mobile device 330. In other examples, the mobile device 330 can take
information directly from the wagering game machine 360 (e.g., sniff events, such as
game outcome data, from the secondary content controller 362 via the Bluetooth
connection 320). In some embodiments, the mobile device 330 can take information
from the secondary content server 380 via the secure wireless link.
[0085]    Returning momentarily to Figure 2, the flow 200 continues at processing block
214, where the system determines whether there is a winning outcome for the secondary
bet. For example, in Figure 7, at stage "S," the secondary content server 380 determines
whether an event occurs in the primary wagering game that results in an outcome for the
secondary bet. For instance, referring momentarily to Figure 1, the secondary content
server 380 could detect events from the primary content 102 to determine whether five
instances of the symbol 117 had occurred in a payline within the last 10 spins made since
the secondary bet was placed.
[0086]    Referring back to Figure 7, at stage "T," the secondary content controller 331 of
the mobile device 330 presents results for the secondary bet. For example, if the
secondary bet did not win, the app on the mobile device 330 indicates that there was no
win. If there was a win, then the app indicates that the secondary bet resulted in a win.
                                              32

[0087]     Referring momentarily back to Figure 2, if at processing block 214 the system
determines that there is no winning outcome for the secondary bet, then the flow 200
ends. However, if the system determines that there is a winning outcome for the
secondary bet, then the system can, at processing block 216, determine whether there is
authorization to access session funds for the wagering game content. The operations
associated with processing block 216 can be similar to those described for processing
block 206. If the system determines, at processing block 216, that there is authorization
to access session funds for the wagering game content, then, at processing block 218, the
system provides a secondary bet win amount to the gaming session for the primary game
content. However, if, at processing block 216, the system determines that there is no
authorization to access session funds for the wagering game content, then, at processing
block 220, the system provides the secondary bet win amount to the player account.
[0088]     Figures 8 and 9 illustrate two different ways of providing a win amount of the
secondary bet to a respective source of the funds used to place the secondary bet. The
first way, shown in Figure 8, illustrates an example of adding funds to the gaming session
of the wagering game machine 360. Figure 8 is pertinent to processing block 218. The
second way, shown in Figure 9, illustrates an example of adding funds to a player
account. Figure 9 is pertinent to processing block 220.
[0089]     Referring first to the example of Figure 8, at stage "Ul," the secondary content
server 380 sends to the secondary content controller 362 credit data 866 that indicates an
amount of the win for the secondary bet. At stage "V1," the secondary content controller
362 provides first credit data 867 to the primary content controller 361. The secondary
content controller 362 also provides second credit data 868 to the casino accounting
system 340. The secondary content controller 362 can send a first SAS command, having
the first credit data 867, to the primary content controller 361. The first SAS command
may initiate a first AFT with the primary content controller 361, which, to the primary
content controller 361, appears as an AFT initiated from the casino accounting system
340. At stage "Wi," the primary content controller 361 receives the first credit data 867
(e.g., as a SAS command to initiate the first AFT), which causes credits (in the amount of
the win for the secondary bet) to be placed onto the credit meter for the primary game
content. Further, referring again to stage "Vi," the secondary content controller 362 can
                                                33

send a second SAS command, having the second credit data 868, which indicates to the
casino accounting system 340 that an amount of money was deposited into the wagering
game machine 360, as if an amount of funds (equivalent to the win amount for the
secondary bet) were deposited via a ticket input mechanism, or other monetary input
mechanism, of the wagering game machine 360. Thus, in some embodiments, the
secondary content controller 362 functions as a proxy between the primary content
controller 361 and the casino accounting system 340 to ensure that financial data is
properly accounted. Thus, the secondary content controller 362 can divert and/or add
funds to/from the primary content controller 361 regarding independent game sessions
and/or different game devices (from different game providers), yet still send appropriate
SAS communications to the casino accounting system 340 to satisfy accounting rules
required for funds transfers.
[0090]    In Figure 9, at stage "U2," the secondary content server 380 sends data 966.
The data 966 includes credit data related to the win amount. In other words, the data 966
specifies the win amount for the secondary bet.
[0091]    At stage "V2," the secondary content controller 362 receives the data 966 and
sends data 971 to the account server 370. In other embodiments, the secondary content
server 380 can instead send the data 966 directly to the account server 370 without
intervention by the secondary content controller 362. In such an instance, the secondary
content controller 362 may detect that the data 966 was sent to the account server 370
(e.g., the secondary content controller 362 can sniff a SAS communication sent by the
secondary content server 380 to the account server 370).
[0092]    At stage "W2," the account server 370 receives the data 971 and increases a
credit balance for the player account by the win amount for the secondary bet.
[0093]    While Figures 3-9 illustrated some examples where the secondary content server
380 and the secondary content controller 362 are directly connected via the
communications network 321. In other embodiments, however, a secondary content
controller may not be directly connected to a secondary content server via a
communications network. Instead, in some embodiments, the secondary content
controller can be directed to a secondary content server using the mobile device. For
example, the secondary content controller can first send communications related to the
                                              34

primary wagering game content (e.g., communications related to credits, primary game
events, etc.) to the mobile device via a first wireless connection (such as via the
Bluetooth connection 320 shown in Figures 4-9). The mobile device can be connected to
the secondary content server via a second wireless connection (such as via the secure
wireless network 322 shown in Figures 4-9). The mobile device can then forward the
communications received from the secondary content controller to the secondary content
server using the second wireless connection.
[0094] Figure 10 is a flow diagram ("flow") 1000 illustrating controlling authorization to
pair a mobile device with a secondary content controller, according to some
embodiments;
[0095]    In Figure 10, the flow 1000 begins at processing block 1002, where a secondary
content controller detects a request by a mobile device to pair with the secondary content
controller. The secondary content controller is communicatively coupled to a wagering
game machine. For instance, the secondary content controller may be incorporated into
the wagering game machine (e.g., plugged into an expansion slot on a motherboard of the
wagering game machine 1160). In other embodiments, the secondary content controller
is external to the wagering game machine and is communicatively coupled to the
wagering game machine via a communications connection (e.g., plugged into an Ethernet
port of the wagering game machine, connected wirelessly to a wagering game machine,
etc.). The secondary content controller may be independent from the wagering game
machine (e.g., provided by a content provider and/or manufacturer that is different from a
game provider and/or manufacturer that provided the wagering game machine). For
instance, the secondary content controller may be configured to provide additional
content that runs independent from primary wagering game content on the wagering
game machine. The secondary content controller, however, interacts with the wagering
game machine. Therefore the secondary content controller is coupled communicatively
(i.e., coupled so that the secondary content controller can communicate with, and/or
receive communications from, a primary content controller of the wagering game
machine). The secondary content controller may be inconspicuously positioned (e.g., in a
cabinet of the wagering game machine, on top of the wagering game machine, behind the
                                               35

wagering game machine, etc.) so that a player does not see the secondary content
controller.
[0096]    The secondary content controller can include a wireless beacon that detects
when the mobile device is within a given distance (i.e., proximity range). The mobile
device also includes a wireless beacon which can cause a pairing item to appear on the
mobile device as a representation of the wagering game machine even though the
wireless beacon is actually associated with the secondary content controller. If the
pairing item is selected from the mobile device, the mobile device can send a request to
the secondary content controller to pair, such as via the Bluetooth pairing procedure
described previously in Figure 4.
[0097]    The flow 1000 continues at processing block 1004, where the secondary content
controller determines whether primary wagering game content on the wagering game
machine is available for secondary wagering. For example, the secondary content
controller can determine that primary wagering game content of the wagering game
machine is in a state that would permit secondary wagering by determining that the
wagering game machine has been activated for game play. When the wagering game
machine is activated for play, the primary wagering game content is presented and
wagers can be made. For example, the secondary content controller can determine that a
credit meter of the primary wagering game content is funded. A player may insert or
scan a ticket or card using an electronic scanning device of the wagering game machine.
The ticket or card is encoded with electronic funds, such as credits. The wagering game
machine reads the ticket or card and transfers the electronic funds to an account
associated with the wagering game session ("gaming session account"). The gaming
session account stores funds temporarily on the wagering game machine to be used for
funding wagers on the primary wagering game content. A credit meter associated with
the primary wagering game shows the funds.
[0098]    In some examples, the gaming session account is anonymous. In other
examples, the gaming session account is associated with a player account. For instance,
instead of scanning a ticket or card that is encoded with funds, a player may instead scan
a player card or player device (e.g., RFID device) that is encoded with identifying
information for the player and/or an identifier for an account-based-wagering (ABW)
                                               36

player account. The electronic scanning device can read the identifying information and
log into the player account via the wagering game machine. In some examples, the
system can transfer funds from the player to the gaming session account. In some
examples, the player account may not include funds. However, the gaming session may
still be activated after the player account logs in. After logging into the player account,
the player account can present an option to transfer funds from a financial account (e.g.,
via electronic funds transfer from a bank account or a credit card) to the player account
and/or to the gaming session account. Therefore, in some embodiments, the secondary
content controller determines that primary wagering game content of the wagering game
machine is in a state that would permit secondary wagering by determining that a player
account has logged into the wagering game machine using a player account.
[0099]    In some examples, the secondary content controller also determines that primary
wagering game content of the wagering game machine is in a state that would permit
secondary wagering by determining that the primary wagering game content is in non
active, game-play state. A non-active, game play state is a state where a primary
wagering game application is not actively presenting a game-play round for the primary
wagering game (e.g. is not actively presenting a spin of slot reels, is not actively
computing a random-number and/or a random wagering game outcome, is not actively
presenting a congratulatory effect for a win event of the primary wagering game, etc.).
More specifically, a primary wagering game may experiencing certain events. One type
of event is an idle event, where the primary wagering game is not doing anything. A
second type of event is a game-start event, which may occur when a "spin" button or
"bet" button is activated on a wagering game machine. The game-start event initiates a
betting transaction and begins a game play rounds for the primary wagering game. After
the game-start event, the primary game may deactivate betting controls for the primary
game until after a game-end event occurs. After the game-start event, the primary
wagering game may also generate a random game outcome or detect a randomly
generated game outcome for the game play round. After the game-start event, the
primary wagering game may also present active movement or activity of the primary
wagering game elements (e.g., present spinning reels, present a card deal, present
movement of a game character, etc.). Further, after the game-start event and after
                                               37

determining the game outcome, the primary wagering game presents a reveal of the game
outcome. For example, if the game outcome is a win, the primary wagering game may
present a congratulatory game effect. In some examples, after the game-start event, the
primary wagering game may also determine whether to present a bonus game and/or
bonus content (e.g. present episodic content, launch a community game, present a
progressive game event, etc.). At some point after the game-start event, depending on the
configuration of the primary wagering game and/or jurisdictional rules, the primary
wagering game generates a game-end event, which indicates the end of the game play
round. In some examples, the game-end event may occur immediately after the reveal of
the game outcome. In other examples, the game-end event may occur after the reveal of
the game outcome and after a congratulatory game effect is presented and/or after bonus
content is presented. After the game-end event occurs, the primary wagering game
activates the betting controls again so that a second bet can be made and a subsequent
game play round can begin.
[00100] The secondary content controller can detect the game-start events and game-end
events. Therefore, in some embodiments, the secondary content controller can determine
that the primary wagering game content is in a state that would permit secondary
wagering by determining whether the primary wagering game content has generated a
game-start event in relation to a game-end event. For instance, if the secondary content
controller detects, at a beginning of a gaming session (i.e., after a log-in event, after a
gaming session funding event, etc.), that a game-start event has not been generated, then
the primary wagering game is in a state that would permit wagering. In another example,
if the secondary content controller detects, during a gaming session, that a game-end
event has occurred and has not yet been sequentially followed by game-start event, then
then the primary wagering game is in a state that would permit wagering. However, if
the secondary content controller detects that a game-start event has occurred, but has not
yet been followed sequentially by a game-end event, then the primary wagering game is
in a state that would not permit wagering
[00101] If, at processing block 1004, the secondary content controller determines that the
primary wagering game content is not available, the flow 1000 continues at processing
block 1006, where the secondary content controller denies pairing of the mobile device
                                              38

with the secondary content controller. For example, the secondary content controller can
send a message to the mobile device that the pairing is unavailable. In some example, the
secondary content controller may momentarily turn off the pairing functionality.
[00102] However, if, at processing block 1004, the secondary content controller
determines that the primary wagering game content is available, the flow 1000 continues
at processing block 1008, where the secondary content controller pairs with the mobile
device.
[00103] Figure 11 is a flow diagram ("flow") 1100 illustrating controlling authorization
to perform secondary betting via a mobile device paired with a secondary content
controller, according to some embodiments.
[00104] The flow 1100 starts at processing block 1102, where the secondary content
controller detects a request to place a secondary bet via a mobile device. For example, the
secondary content controller may detect that a paired mobile device presents an
application which presents betting options to place secondary bets on potential primary
game events.
[00105] The flow 1100 continues at processing block 1104, where the secondary content
controller determines whether the primary wagering game content is available for
secondary wagering. For example, the secondary content controller can determine
whether the primary wagering game is in a non-active, game-play state (e.g., if the
primary wagering game is not actively presenting a game-play round for the primary
wagering game). Several examples of determining whether a primary wagering game is
in a non-active, game-play state were specified previously for processing block 1004 of
Figure 10.
[00106] Still referring to Figure 11, if, at processing block 1104, the secondary content
controller determines that the primary content is not available for secondary wagering,
the flow 1100 continues at processing block 1106, where the secondary content controller
prevents placement of a secondary bet via the mobile device. For example, the secondary
content presented on the mobile device includes betting options to bet on potential events
that may occur during an active, game-play state of the primary wagering game.
Therefore, if the primary wagering game is in an active game state, and if the mobile
device were allowed to place bets on the primary wagering game, then several possible
                                               39

conflicts could arise. For instance, a conflict may arise in the timing of the placement of
the secondary bet, which can lead to conflicts in payments of wagers and/or confusion
about whether the secondary bet referred to a current game play or a subsequent game
play. For example, if the secondary bet were permitted to be placed when a primary
game playing round had already begun, a player may think that the secondary bet should
apply to the current betting round. Supposing, for the sake of this example, that the
current betting round were to result in a winning event, and supposing that instead of
placing the secondary bet on the betting round (that had the winning event), the mobile
device placed the secondary bet on a subsequent betting round (which had yet to be
played), the player would possibly feel confused about why the secondary bet did not
result in a win. Furthermore, if a secondary bet were allowed to be placed during a
playing round of the primary game, then a player could see a portion of a reveal of the
wagering game outcome and then place a secondary bet that took advantage of the
partially revealed outcome. For example, in a five reel slot game, if one of the potential
betting options for the secondary content was a proposition bet that multiple types of
symbols would occur in a payline, and if one or more of the types of symbols appeared in
a potential payline row when two of the reels stopped spinning, then before the last three
reels stopped spinning, a player could select the one of the potential betting options.
Thus, the player could increase their odds of winning, resulting in an unfair advantage.
[00107]     Consequently, according to some embodiments, the secondary content
controller can ensure that no secondary bets are placed on the mobile device by
determining game-play state of the primary wagering game and preventing the mobile
device from placing secondary wagers if the primary wagering game is in an active,
game-play state. For example, the secondary content controller can send a message to the
mobile device to disable betting options as soon as it detects a game-start event. In other
examples, the mobile device may disable betting options by default. In that case, the
secondary content controller would instead send a message to the mobile device to enable
secondary betting only if the secondary content controller detects that a game-end event
has occurred and has not yet been followed sequentially by a game-start event.
[00108] Referring back to processing block 1104, if the secondary content controller
determines that the primary wagering game content is available for secondary wagering,
                                              40

the flow 1100 continues at processing block 1108, where the secondary content controller
enables the placement of the secondary bet via the mobile device. For example, the
secondary content controller may send a message to the mobile device to enable betting
options on the mobile device to place the secondary bet.
[00109] In some embodiments, the secondary content controller can determine whether
the primary wagering game is a current game-play state that could result in some of the
potential game events presented on betting options of the secondary game content, yet
still enable secondary betting for other betting options that apply to primary game events
that would not occur during the current game-play state. For example, one of the betting
control options of the mobile device may be for placing a secondary bet on what might
happen in the primary wagering game between certain time periods that will occur
subsequent to a current time (e.g., in a minute from now). Therefore, the current, active,
game-play state would not be relevant to that betting option. As such, the secondary
content controller may permit that betting option to occur, while preventing other betting
options on potential primary game events that might occur from the current, active,
game-play state.
[00110] Further, while the secondary content controller prevents secondary wagering on
a primary wagering game, the secondary content controller may enable secondary betting
on one or more independent secondary games presented on the wagering game machine,
even while the primary wagering game is in an active, game-play state for the primary
wagering game.
                             Additional Example Embodiments
[00111] According to some embodiments, a wagering game system ("system") can
provide various example devices, operations, etc., to providing secondary betting via an
associated mobile device. The following non-exhaustive list enumerates some possible
embodiments.
[00112] Multiple mobile devices paired with the same wagering game machine. In some
embodiments, the system is configured to pair multiple mobile devices with the same
wagering game machine. Thus, different users can bet on different events that occur on
the same wagering game machine. In some embodiments, a wagering game machine can
                                              41

provide multiple visual indicators when pairing with multiple mobile devices. For
example, the wagering game machine can have multiple overhead visual indicators that
flash different colors for different mobile devices that are paired. For instance, a red
lighting effect on the wagering game machine's overhead display pertains to a first
player's mobile device, whereas a green lighting effect pertains to a second player's
mobile device. If more than one wagering game machine in the wireless pairing range,
the mobile device's apps could present additional indicia, such as descriptions of game
themes for the different wagering game machines, orientation indicators, etc. In some
embodiments, if the first player at the wagering game machine is indicated as a social
contact of the second player, and if the first player has authorized it, the mobile app for
the second player could show information about first player. For example, the mobile
app for the second player could show an image of the first player, could indicate which
wagering game machine the first player is at, could show win streak data associated with
the first player, could show accomplishments by the first player in the gaming session,
etc. In some embodiments, the wagering game machine could show credit meter data to
the second player if the second player has sufficient authority, such as "spouse" level
authority.
[00113] Secondary betting without pairing. In some embodiments, the mobile device
does not pair with the wagering game machine. Rather, a user can launch an app on a
mobile device that will show a listing of wagering game machines on a casino floor. Any
one, or more, of the wagering game machines may be selected via the app. One or more
secondary bets can be placed for each of the wagering game machines selected via the
app. Secondary content controllers for each of the wagering game machines can detect
primary content events and provide event data for each of the secondary bets.
[00114] Secondary betting on progressives. In some embodiments, the system can pair a
mobile device with a wagering game machine and make a secondary game bet related to
a progressive game. The secondary bet specifies that if a progressive jackpot were to be
won on the wagering game machine within a certain number of game play rounds, then
the user that made the secondary bet would get a portion of a reset value of the
progressive game. For example, a reset value for a jackpot amount of the progressive
game may be five thousand dollars ($5K). The progressive jackpot may increase over
                                               42

time to more than the reset value (e.g., to $1 million) until a player wins the jackpot. The
wagering game machine associated with the secondary bet is eligible for the progressive
jackpot. An event that occurs on the wagering game machine causes the player to win
the progressive jackpot amount (e.g., the player wins the $1 million). Because the user of
the mobile device made the secondary bet that the progressive jackpot would be won by
the wagering game machine, the user of the mobile device wins some, or all, of the reset
value for the progressive jackpot (e.g., $5K). In other examples, the system can provide a
 secondary bet where a user of a mobile device can place a secondary bet to attempt to
win an amount shown a the progressive meter at the time of the secondary game bet.
 [00115] Secondary content controller as secondary host. In some embodiments, the
 secondary content controller is configured to be a proxy accounting host that intercepts
communications between a primary content controller and a casino accounting system.
However, in other examples, the secondary content controller can be configured as a
 secondary host, in additional to the casino accounting system. In this scenario, the
primary content controller can work with both the casino accounting system and with the
 secondary content controller. Further, in some embodiments described previously, the
 secondary content controller sniffs primary game events that are sent from the primary
content controller to a second device different from the secondary content controller. For
example, if there is a limit to the number of hosts that can be subscribed to a primary
content controller (e.g., as in SAS), and if other hosts are already subscribed to the
primary content controller (e.g., a casino accounting system and a progressive game
 server), the secondary content controller may not be able to connect as a host. In such a
 scenario, the secondary content controller may instead sniff data communications
between the primary content controller and other hosts. However, in other embodiments,
the secondary content controller can be configured as a secondary recipient of game
event data and does not have to sniff data. For example, if the limit to the number of
hosts is not reached for SAS then the secondary content controller can be subscribed as a
valid host. In another example, if another protocol is used, such as the Game to System
(G2S) protocol, which provides for a vast number of hosts, then the secondary content
controller can be subscribed as a valid host. Thus, the secondary content controller can
be subscribed to primary game events. Therefore, in such an example, the primary
                                              43

content controller can send the primary game events directly to the secondary content
controller as well as to any other hosts that are subscribed to receive the primary game
events.
[00116] Controlling secondary bet based on termination event. In some embodiments, a
termination event may occur before a condition for a secondary bet is satisfied. For
example, a mobile device may be linked with a secondary content server. A proposition
bet may be made, via the mobile device, that a specific primary wagering game event will
occur via a wagering game within a certain number of game plays (e.g., that four specific
symbols will occur in a payline within the next 10 spins). In some examples, before the
number of game plays have occurred, a termination event may occur that interrupts the
conditions associated with the secondary bet. For instance, the mobile device may leave
the wireless range of the secondary content controller and may un-pair with the
secondary content server before the number of game plays have occurred. In another
example, the player that is playing on the wagering game machine may end the wagering
game session (e.g., run out of game funds, cash out of the wagering game machine, log
off the wagering game machine, etc.) before the number of game plays occur.
[00117] In the scenario where the mobile device un-pairs before the conditions of the
secondary bet can be satisfied, the system can perform different operations depending on
whether the secondary content controller is directly connected to the secondary content
server via a back-end communications network, or, instead, whether the mobile device
functions as the conduit for communications between the secondary content controller
and the secondary content server. In the case where the secondary content controller is
directly connected to the secondary content server via a communications network, then,
after the mobile device un-pairs, the secondary content server can query the secondary
content controller (via the communications network) to determine whether the primary
wagering game content is still available (e.g., if there is still money on a credit meter for
the primary wagering game and/or if a player account is still logged on to the wagering
game machine). If so, then the secondary content controller can communicate game
event data directly to the secondary content server via the communications network. The
secondary content server can monitor the game events of the primary wagering game
until the conditions for the secondary bet have been satisfied (e.g., until the number of
                                              44

game plays have occurred). The secondary content controller can then resolve the
secondary bet (e.g., a win or loss based on whether or not there was a win event on the
primary wagering game during the number of game plays). The secondary content server
can then communicate the results of the secondary bet to the mobile device via a mobile
network (e.g., by sending a data communication via a telecommunications network to
which the mobile device is connected).
[00118] However, after the mobile device un-pairs, if the primary wagering game
content is not available (e.g., if funds run out on the credit meter for the primary
wagering game before the number of game plays occur and/or if a player account logs off
the wagering game machine before the number of game plays occur), the secondary
content server can perform a couple of different options.
[00119] First, it can cancel the secondary bet, and refund the wagered amounts for the
secondary bet. For instance, the secondary content controller can send a coupon for a
free game play to an electronic contact identifier (e.g., email, mobile telephone number).
In another example, the secondary content controller can transfer the wagered amounts
for the secondary bet to a player account associated with the mobile device.
[00120] Second, the secondary content server can transfer the secondary bet to a second
wagering game machine. For instance, the secondary content server can cause an option
to be presented on the mobile device to cancel or transfer bet. If the transfer option is
selected, then the secondary content server gives a certain amount of time for the mobile
device to pair again with a different wagering game machine that has the same potential
event in the condition for the secondary bet. If the mobile device does not pair within the
time frame, or if it pairs with a second wagering game machine that does not have the
same potential event, then the secondary content server can cancel the secondary bet or
extend the time frame. To facilitate the transfer of the secondary bet, the secondary
content server can provide, for presentation via the mobile device, a list of other wagering
game machines with the same potential event specified by the conditions of the
secondary bet (e.g., provide a list of game themes, provide a map to the other wagering
game machines, etc.).
[00121] The scenarios in the above paragraph indicated some examples of where a
mobile device un-pairs before the conditions of the secondary bet can be satisfied and
                                               45

where the secondary content controller is directly connected to the secondary content
server via a back-end communications network. In other examples, where a mobile
device un-pairs before the conditions of the secondary bet are satisfied and where the
secondary content controller is not connected to secondary content server via a back-end
communications network (i.e., if the mobile device was functioning as a conduit for
communications between the secondary content controller and the secondary content
server), then the secondary content server can perform other operations. For instance, the
secondary server would not be able to monitor primary game events from the previous
wagering game machine from which the mobile device was unpaired. Therefore, the
secondary content server can either cancel the bet and refund the bet amount or the
secondary content server can offer to transfer the secondary bet (as described in the
paragraph above).
[00122] In other examples, the secondary content server can cancel a bet and partially
refund some of the bet amount. For example, if the conditions of the secondary bet
specified that 10 game plays must occur in the primary wagering game, and a termination
event occur after only 9 game plays have occurred, the secondary content server can
refund 1/10' of the bet amount for the secondary bet. In other examples, such as where
the bet amount may not be divisible, the secondary content server can cancel the bet and
not refund the game amount, but instead provide another form of compensation, such as a
coupon, a discount, a promotional offer, etc., for other gaming or non-gaming activity
(e.g., a specific number of free spins for a specific wagering game, a discount on a buffet
or other casino merchandise or service, a multiplier for the next time a bonus game
occurs, an entry in a raffle drawing, a voucher for a certain number of non-cash points for
game play of a non-cash wagering game, a free app, etc.).
[00123] In examples where the termination event is that the primary game content
becomes no longer available for game play (e.g., the mobile device remains paired, but a
player of the wagering game runs out of game funds, cashes out, logs off, or otherwise
ends a gaming session for the primary wagering game content), the secondary content
server can either cancel the secondary bet or transfer the secondary bet.
                              Example Operating Environments
                                              46

[00124] This section describes additional example operating environments, systems,
networks, etc. and presents structural aspects of some embodiments.
                           Wagering Game System Architecture
[00125] Figure 12 is a conceptual diagram that illustrates an example of a wagering
game system architecture 1200, according to some embodiments. The wagering game
system architecture 1200 includes a wagering game machine 1260 similar to the
wagering game machine 160 described in Figure 1. The wagering game machine 1260 is
configured to present and control wagering games as well as other content associated
with the wagering games. For example, the wagering game machine 1260 may be
configured to present a primary wagering game. The wagering game machine 1260
includes a primary content controller 1263 configured to manage and control content and
presentation of content on the wagering game machine 1260. The wagering game
machine 1260 also includes a memory configured to contain content to present on the
wagering game machine 1260. The memory can include primary game content for
presentation of a primary wagering game on the wagering game machine 1260. The
memory can also include secondary game content for presentation of a secondary
wagering game on the wagering game machine 1260. The wagering game machine 1260
can also include a Slot Accounting System (SAS) module configured to communicate
with one or more elements of the wagering game system architecture 1200 regarding one
or more financial transactions, game events, etc., that use the SAS protocol. The
wagering game machine 1260 further includes one or more output related components
and devices ("output components 1261") configured to control and/or present output
information related to the wagering games and the other content. For example, the
wagering game machine 1260 includes one or more display devices that present wagering
game content for the wagering games, content for casino services, content for
advertisements, and so forth. The output components 1261 further include video and
graphics devices or engines that generate an image of content to present via the one or
more displays associated with the wagering game machine 1260. In another example, the
output components 1261 includes speakers, sound cards, etc. that generate and/or present
signals and sounds for the wagering games and other content. In another example, the
                                             47

output components 1261 include one or more payout mechanisms, such as a printer that
prints out tickets, coupons, etc. related to the wagering games. For example, the printer
can print out a ticket that shows a cash-out amount for one or more wagering games
concurrently presented via the wagering game machine 1260. In yet another example,
the wagering game machine 1260 includes various lighting devices that show information
related to wagering games, such as lighting effects (e.g., a celebratory effect, an attract
effect, a visual indicator for a pairing procedure, etc.).
[00126] The wagering game machine 1260 also includes one or more input related
components and devices ("input components 1262") configured to control and/or provide
input for the wagering games and other content presented via the wagering game machine
1260. For example, the input components 1262 include a touch-screen display by which
a user can touch a screen and select certain virtual controls, objects, items, etc. presented
on the touch-screen display. In another example, the input components 1262 include a
button panel with buttons related to one or more wagering games, application, services,
etc. presented via the wagering game machine 1260. The buttons, for example, may
indicate betting amounts, payline amounts, spin controls, or other items used to make
bets, spin reels, etc. for a wagering game. The buttons may also detect input related to
payout mechanisms and/or cashing out a wagering game, such as an activation of a cash
out button used to transfer credits from wagering game credit balances to a cash-out
object, card, ticket, account, etc. The buttons may also accept input related to casino
services and amenities. In some examples the input components 1262 also includes input
devices related to funds, player information, etc. For example, the wagering game
machine 1260 includes an information reader that reads information from a card or
device and connects to a player account, a customer loyalty account, a financial account,
etc. In some examples, the input components 1262 include eye tracking equipment,
biometric devices, and so forth.
[00127] The wagering game machine 1260 also includes the primary content controller
1263 configured to control content, such as a primary wagering game or other wagering
games, provided from a primary source of wagering game content. The primary content
controller 1263 can include software and hardware, such as a processor, memory devices,
an operating system, game applications, etc. For example, a primary wagering game
                                               48

server 1250 can provide primary game data 1201 to the primary content controller 1263,
such as control and application data for one or more client applications controlled by the
primary content controller 1263.
[00128] The wagering game system architecture 1200 also includes a secondary content
controller 1230 configured to communicate with various components of the wagering
game machine 1260 to present and control various aspects of independent secondary
content using the output components 1261 and the input components 1262 of the
wagering game machine 1260. In some examples, the secondary content controller 1230
is similar to the secondary content controller 162 described in Figure 1 and/or similar to
the secondary content controller 362 described in Figures 3-9. For example, the
secondary content controller 1230 may be incorporated into the wagering game machine
1260 (e.g., plugged into an expansion slot on a motherboard of the wagering game
machine 1260). In other embodiments, the secondary content controller 1230 is external
to the wagering game machine 1260 and is connected to the wagering game machine
1260 via a communications connection 1239 (e.g., plugged into an Ethernet port of the
wagering game machine 1260, connected wirelessly to a wagering game machine 1260,
etc.).
[00129] The secondary content controller 1230 includes a detection unit 1234 configured
to detect information from the various devices and components of the wagering game
machine 1260 including information from the output components 1261 and the input
components 1262. For example, the detection module 1234 can detect graphics data
1202 (e.g., graphical and video data) provided from a video card, a graphics engine, or
other sources of graphics data of the wagering game machine 1260. The detection
module 1234 can send the graphics data 1202 to the controller module 1236. The
graphics data 1202 includes a position of primary wagering game content on a display of
the wagering game machine 1260 according to default display parameters (e.g., default
size of a display area, default display dimensions, etc.). The controller module 1236 can
manipulate the graphics data 1202 to move or resize the position of the primary wagering
game content relative to the default display parameters. The controller module 1236 can
send modified or adapted presentation data 1208 to the output module 1232, such as
display coordinates, display boundaries, display sizes, or other display data for the
                                             49

primary wagering game content that has been moved or resized to accommodate the
presentation of an independent secondary wagering game. The output module 1232 can
receive the adapted presentation data and provide modified output data 1216 to the output
components 1261. The output components 1261 can use the modified output data 1216,
for example, to move or resize the primary game content on a display device of the
wagering game machine 1260. Furthermore, the controller module 1236 can receive
secondary game data 1281 from the secondary content server 1280. The controller
module 1236 can further include in the adapted presentation data 1208 information about
where to position a secondary wagering game relative to the position of the primary game
content. The output module 1232 can then incorporate into the modified output data
1216 information about both the secondary game content and the primary game content
so that the display device of the wagering game machine 1260 can concurrently present
both the primary and secondary game content.
[00130] Further, in some embodiments, the detection module 1234 can intercept user
input 1203 from the input components 1262 and provide the user input 1203 to the
controller module 1236. The controller module 1236 can receive the user input 1203,
interpret the user input 1203, and, in some cases, modify the user input 1203 to the
adapted presentation data 1208. The controller module 1236 can further provide
modified input data 1206 to the primary content controller 1263. For instance, the
detection unit 1234 can intercept a touch-screen input from the input components 1262
before the primary content controller 1263 can detect the touch-screen input. The
detection unit 1234 can forward the touch-screen input to the controller module 1236.
The controller module 1236 can convert or remap the touch-screen input to different
coordinates of the touch-screen display that relate to a modified location of primary
content on the display as well as to secondary content presented on the display. The
controller module 1236 can send the modified input data 1206 to the primary content
controller 1263 so that the primary content controller 1263 can control the primary game
according to the modified input data 1206. The controller module 1236 can further detect
primary game data 1205 generated by the primary content controller 1263 so that the
controller module 1236 can generate updates to the adapted presentation data 1208.
                                             50

[00131] The controller module 1236 is further configured to receive information about
financial transactions (e.g., from the detection module 1234 via user input 1203 that
relates to financial transactions, such as credit transfers, cash outs, etc.). For instance, the
controller module 1236 can intercept primary game accounting data 1207, such as SAS
messages sent from the primary content controller 1263 directed to the casino accounting
system 1290. The controller module 1236 then acts as proxy for the casino accounting
system 1290 by generating adapted accounting data 1210, which the controller module
1236 communicates to the primary content controller 1263. Thus, in some embodiments
the controller module 1236 interposes itself, or intervenes, between the primary content
controller 1263 and the casino accounting system 1290 (e.g., as if the controller module
1236 were an accounting host). For instance, the controller module 1236 initiates a funds
transfer between the primary content controller 1263 and the casino accounting system
1290. In some embodiments, the controller module 1236 intercepts the funds transfer
from the primary content controller 1263 and provides the funds to the secondary content
server 1280 to transact secondary bets. In some embodiments, the secondary content
server 1280 can include a SAS module configured to communicate with one or more
elements of the wagering game system architecture 1200 regarding one or more types of
financial transactions, game events, etc., that use the SAS protocol.
[00132] Furthermore, the controller module 1236 can send adapted accounting data 1214
to the casino accounting system 1290. For instance, the controller module 1236 can send
accounting data 1214 to the casino accounting system 1290 as if the primary content
controller 1263 had initiated a financial transaction. Further, the controller module 1236
can communicate to the casino accounting system 1290 certain SAS communications that
satisfy certain accounting rules and requirements associated with the financial
transaction.
[00133] The wagering game system architecture 1200 can also include an account server
1270 configured to control user related accounts accessible via wagering game networks
and social networks. The account server 1270 can store and track player information,
such as identifying information (e.g., avatars, screen name, account identification
numbers, etc.) or other information like financial account information, social contact
information, etc. The account server 1270 can contain accounts for social contacts
                                               51

referenced by the player account. The account server 1270 can also provide auditing
capabilities, according to regulatory rules, and track the performance of players,
machines, and servers. The account server 1270 can include an account controller
configured to control information for a player's account. The account server 1270 can
also include an account store configured to store information for a player's account. The
account server 1270 can further be configured to provide user information and store
information related to a player account and/or a financial account associated with a player
(e.g., with a user of the wagering game machine 1260 and/or a user of a mobile device
1223). For example, the controller module 1236 can send accounting data 1220 from the
secondary content controller 1230 to the account server 1270. The accounting data 1220
includes information necessary to electronically transfer credits to and/or from the player
account and/or financial account associated with the account server 1270.
[00134] Referring again to the controller module 1236 of the secondary content
controller 1230, in some embodiments, the controller module 1236 sends primary game
session data 1225 to the secondary content server 1280. In some embodiments, the
primary game session data 1225 includes funding data, such as credits taken from a credit
meter of the wagering game machine 1260 and provided to the secondary content server
128 to fund secondary bets. In some embodiments, the primary game session data 1225
includes game event data related to the secondary bet.
[00135] The wagering game system architecture 1200 can also include the mobile device
1223. In some examples, the controller module 1236 can communicate with the mobile
device 1223, such as via wireless connection. In some embodiments, the secondary
content server 1280 can also communicate with the mobile device 1223. For example,
the secondary content server 1280 can communicate secondary content data 1224, such
as credit data, secondary content, etc.
[00136] Each component in the wagering game system architecture 1200 is shown as a
separate and distinct element. Some elements may be connected via a communications
network 1222 as shown in Figure 12. In other examples, some, or all, of the components
shown may all be contained in one device, or in different devices according to other
configurations not shown in Figure 12. For instance, the secondary content controller
1230 and the casino accounting system 1290 may be incorporated into the wagering
                                              52

game machine 1260 as similarly described in Figure 1. Furthermore, some functions
performed by one component could be performed by other components. For example,
the primary wagering game server 1250 can also be configured to perform functions of
the wagering game machine 1260, and other network elements and/or system devices.
Furthermore, the wagering game system architecture 1200 can be implemented as
software, hardware, any combination thereof, or other forms of embodiments not listed.
For example, any of the network components (e.g., the wagering game machines, servers,
etc.) can include hardware and machine-readable storage media including instructions for
performing the operations described herein.
[00137] The wagering game system architecture 1200 can also include a primary
wagering game server 1250 configured to control wagering game content, provide
random numbers, and communicate wagering game information, account information,
and other information to and from the wagering game machine 1260. The primary
wagering game server 1250 can include a content controller configured to manage and
control content for presentation on the wagering game machine 1260. For example, the
content controller can generate game results (e.g., win/loss values), including win
amounts, for games played on the wagering game machine 1260. The content controller
can communicate the game results to the wagering game machine 1260. The content
controller can also generate random numbers and provide them to the wagering game
machine 1260 so that the wagering game machine 1260 can generate game results. The
primary wagering game server 1250 can also include a content store configured to
contain content to present on the wagering game machine 1260. The primary wagering
game server 1250 can also include an account manager configured to control information
related to player accounts. For example, the account manager 1253 can communicate
wager amounts, game results amounts (e.g., win amounts), bonus game amounts, etc., to
the account server 1270. The primary wagering game server 1250 can also include a
communication unit configured to communicate information to the wagering game
machine 1260 and to communicate with other systems, devices and networks. In some
embodiments, the primary wagering game server 1250 can also include a SAS module
configured to communicate with one or more elements of the wagering game system
                                            53

architecture 1200 regarding one or more types of financial transactions, game events, etc.,
that use the SAS protocol.
[00138] Each component shown in the wagering game system architecture 1200 is
shown as a separate and distinct element connected via a communications network 1222.
However, some functions performed by one component could be performed by other
components. For example, the primary wagering game server 1250 can also be
configured to perform functions of the wagering game machine 1260, and other network
elements and/or system devices. In other examples, the secondary content controller
1236 shares or distributes operations with SAS modules of the secondary content server
1280, the casino accounting system 1290, the primary wagering game server 1250, the
account server 1270, the wagering game machine 1260, and/or the mobile device 1223.
Furthermore, the components shown may all be contained in one device, but some, or all,
may be included in, or performed by, multiple devices, as in the configurations shown in
Figure 12 or other configurations not shown. For example, in some embodiments, the
wagering game machine 1260 can determine wagering game outcomes, generate random
numbers, etc. instead of, or in addition to, the wagering game server 1250.
[00139] The wagering game machines described herein (e.g., wagering game machine
1260) can take any suitable form, such as floor standing models, handheld mobile units,
bar-top models, workstation-type console models, surface computing machines, etc.
Further, wagering game machines can be primarily dedicated for use in conducting
wagering games, or can include non-dedicated devices, such as mobile phones, personal
digital assistants, personal computers, etc.
[00140] In some embodiments, wagering game machines and wagering game servers
work together such that wagering game machines can be operated as thin, thick, or
intermediate clients. For example, one or more elements of game play may be controlled
by the wagering game machines (client) or the wagering game servers (server). Game
play elements can include executable game code, lookup tables, configuration files, game
outcome, audio or visual representations of the game, game assets or the like. In a thin
client example, the wagering game server can perform functions such as determining
game outcome or managing assets, while the wagering game machines can present a
graphical representation of such outcome or asset modification to the user (e.g., player).
                                               54

In a thick-client example, the wagering game machines can determine game outcomes
and communicate the outcomes to the wagering game server for recording or managing a
player's account.
 [00141] In some embodiments, either the wagering game machines (client) or the
wagering game server(s) can provide functionality that is not directly related to game
play. For example, account transactions and account rules may be managed centrally
(e.g., by the wagering game server(s)) or locally (e.g., by the wagering game machines).
Other functionality not directly related to game play may include power management,
presentation of advertising, software or firmware updates, system quality or security
checks, etc.
 [00142] Furthermore, the wagering game system architecture 1200 can be implemented
as software, hardware, any combination thereof, or other forms of embodiments not
listed. For example, any of the network components (e.g., the wagering game machines,
 servers, etc.) can include hardware and machine-readable storage media including
instructions for performing the operations described herein.
                            Wagering Game Machine Architecture
 [00143] Figure 13 is a conceptual diagram that illustrates an example of a wagering
game machine architecture 1300, according to some embodiments. In Figure 13, the
wagering game machine architecture 1300 includes a wagering game machine 1306,
which includes a central processing unit (CPU) 1326 connected to main memory 1328.
The CPU 1326 can include any suitable processor, such as an Intel@ Pentium processor,
Intel@ Core 2 Duo processor, AMD OpteronTM processor, or UltraSPARC processor.
The main memory 1328 includes a wagering game unit 1332. In some embodiments, the
wagering game unit 1332 can present wagering games, such as video poker, video black
jack, video slots, video lottery, reel slots, etc., in whole or part.
 [00144] The CPU 1326 is also connected to an input/output ("I/O") bus 1322, which can
include any suitable bus technologies, such as an AGTL+ frontside bus and a PCI
backside bus. The 1/0 bus 1322 is connected to a payout mechanism 1308, primary
display 1310, secondary display 1312, value input device 1314, player input device 1316,
information reader 1318, and storage unit 1330. The player input device 1316 can
                                                 55

include the value input device 1314 to the extent the player input device 1316 is used to
place wagers. The 1/0 bus 1322 is also connected to an external system interface 1324,
which is connected to external systems 1304 (e.g., wagering game networks). The
external system interface 1324 can include logic for exchanging information over wired
and wireless networks (e.g., 802.1 1g transceiver, Bluetooth transceiver, Ethernet
transceiver, etc.)
[00145] The 1/0 bus 1322 is also connected to a location unit 1338. The location unit
1338 can create player information that indicates the wagering game machine's
location/movements in a casino. In some embodiments, the location unit 1338 includes a
global positioning system (GPS) receiver that can determine the wagering game
machine's location using GPS satellites. In other embodiments, the location unit 1338
can include a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag that can determine the wagering
game machine's location using RFID readers positioned throughout a casino. Some
embodiments can use GPS receiver and RFID tags in combination, while other
embodiments can use other suitable methods for determining the wagering game
machine's location. Although not shown in Figure 13, in some embodiments, the location
unit 1338 is not connected to the 1/0 bus 1322.
[00146] In some embodiments, the wagering game machine 1306 can include additional
peripheral devices and/or more than one of each component shown in Figure 13. For
example, in some embodiments, the wagering game machine 1306 can include multiple
external system interfaces 1324 and/or multiple CPUs 1326. In some embodiments, any
of the components can be integrated or subdivided.
[00147] In some embodiments, the wagering game machine 1306 includes a secondary
content controller 1337. The secondary content controller 1337 can process
communications, commands, or other information, where the processing can provide
secondary betting via an associated mobile device.
[00148] Furthermore, any component of the wagering game machine 1306 can include
hardware, firmware, and/or machine-readable storage media including instructions for
performing the operations described herein.
                                             56

                                  Wagering Game System
[00149] Figure 14 is a conceptual diagram that illustrates an example of a wagering
game system 1400, according to some embodiments. In Figure 14, the wagering game
system 1400 includes a wagering game machine 1460 similar to those used in gaming
establishments, such as casinos. The wagering game machine 1460 may, in some
examples, be referred to as a gaming terminal or an electronic gaming machine. The
wagering game machine 1460 may have varying structures and methods of operation.
For example, the wagering game machine 1460 may include electromechanical
components configured to play mechanical slots. In another example, the 1460 includes
electronic components configured to play a video casino game, such as slots, keno, poker,
blackjack, roulette, craps, etc. The wagering game machine 1460 is depicted as a floor
standing model. However, other examples of wagering game machines include handheld
mobile units, bartop models, workstation-type console models, etc. Further, the wagering
game machine 1460 may be primarily dedicated for use in conducting wagering games,
or may include non-dedicated devices, such as mobile phones, personal digital assistants,
personal computers, etc. Exemplary types of wagering game machines are disclosed in
US Patent No. 6517433 and Patent Application Publication Nos. US2010/0062196 and
US2010/0234099, which are each incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00150] The wagering game machine 1460 illustrated in Figure 14 comprises a cabinet
1411 that may house various input devices, output devices, and input/output devices. By
way of example, the wagering game machine 1460 includes a primary display area 1412,
a secondary display area 1414, and one or more audio speakers 1416. The primary
display area 1412 or the secondary display area 1414 may include one or more of a
cathode ray tube (CRT), a high resolution liquid crystal display (LCD), a plasma display,
a light emitting diode (LED) display, a three-dimensional (3D) display, a video display,
or a combination thereof. In some examples, the primary display area 1412 or the
secondary display area 1414 includes mechanical reels to display a wagering game
outcome. In some example, the primary display area 1412 or the secondary display area
1414 present a transmissive video display disposed in front of a mechanical-reel display
to portray a video image superimposed upon the mechanical-reel display. In Figure 14,
the wagering game machine 1460 is a "slant-top" version in which the primary display
                                             57

 1412 is slanted (e.g., at about a thirty-degree angle toward the player of the wagering
game machine 1460). Another example of wagering game machine 1460 is an "upright"
version in which the primary display 1414 is oriented vertically relative to the player.
The display areas may variously display information associated with wagering games,
non-wagering games, community games, progressives, advertisements, services,
premium entertainment, text messaging, emails, alerts, announcements, broadcast
information, subscription information, etc. appropriate to the particular mode(s) of
operation of the wagering game machine 1460. The wagering game machine 1460
includes a touch screen(s) 1418 mounted over the primary or secondary areas, buttons
 1420 on a button panel, bill validator 1422, information reader/writer(s) 1424, and
player-accessible port(s) 1426 (e.g., audio output jack for headphones, video headset
jack, USB port, wireless transmitter/receiver, etc.). It should be understood that
numerous other peripheral devices and other elements exist and are readily utilizable in
any number of combinations to create various forms of a wagering game machine in
accord with the present concepts.
 [00151] Input devices, such as the touch screen 1418, buttons 1420, a mouse, a joystick,
a gesture-sensing device, a voice-recognition device, and a virtual input device, accept
player input(s) and transform the player input(s) to electronic data signals indicative of
the player input(s), which correspond to an enabled feature for such input(s) at a time of
activation (e.g., pressing a "Max Bet" button or soft key to indicate a player's desire to
place a maximum wager to play the wagering game). The input(s), once transformed into
electronic data signals, are output to a CPU for processing. The electronic data signals
are selected from a group consisting essentially of an electrical current, an electrical
voltage, an electrical charge, an optical signal, an optical element, a magnetic signal, and
a magnetic element.
 [00152] Embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment, an
entirely software embodiment (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.)
or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be
referred to herein as a "circuit," "module" or "system." Furthermore, embodiments of the
inventive subject matter may take the form of a computer program product embodied in
any tangible medium of expression having computer readable program code embodied in
                                                58

the medium. The described embodiments may be provided as a computer program
product that may include a machine-readable storage medium having stored thereon
instructions, which may be used to program a computer system to perform a process
according to embodiments(s), whether presently described or not, because every
conceivable variation is not enumerated herein. A machine-readable storage medium
includes any mechanism that stores information in a form (e.g., software, processing
application) readable by a machine (e.g., a computer). For example, machine-readable
storage media includes magnetic storage medium (e.g., floppy diskette), read only
memory (ROM), random access memory (RAM), magnetic disk storage media, optical
storage media (e.g., CD-ROM), magneto-optical storage media, flash memory, erasable
programmable memory (e.g., EPROM and EEPROM), or other types of media suitable
for storing electronic instructions. In addition, embodiments may be embodied in a
machine-readable signal media, such as any media suitable for transmitting software over
a network.
                                           General
[00153] This detailed description refers to specific examples in the drawings and
illustrations. These examples are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in
the art to practice the inventive subject matter. These examples also serve to illustrate
how the inventive subject matter can be applied to various purposes or embodiments.
Other embodiments are included within the inventive subject matter, as logical,
mechanical, electrical, and other changes can be made to the example embodiments
described herein. Features of various embodiments described herein, however essential
to the example embodiments in which they are incorporated, do not limit the inventive
subject matter as a whole, and any reference to the invention, its elements, operation, and
application are not limiting as a whole, but serve only to define these example
embodiments. This detailed description does not, therefore, limit embodiments, which
are defined only by the appended claims. Each of the embodiments described herein are
contemplated as falling within the inventive subject matter, which is set forth in the
following claims.
                                              59

[00154] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
'comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
[00155] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                             60

                                                 61
CLAIMS:
1.      A computer-implemented method for providing secondary wagering content in a
wagering game system, the method comprising:
                detecting, by a secondary content controller residing in a wagering game machine,
                a communication to add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game machine;
        detecting, by the secondary content controller via a network communication interface, a
                request to pair a mobile device with the secondary content controller;
        communicatively pairing, via the network communication interface, the mobile device
                with the secondary content controller after detecting the communication to add
                funds to the credit meter;
        presenting, by the primary content controller, primary game content on a display device
                of the wagering game machine;
        presenting, by the secondary content controller, secondary game content on the mobile
                device, wherein the secondary content controller is independent of a primary
                content controller.
2.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
        sending, by the secondary controller to the primary content controller, a fund request
                appearing to originate from a remote casino accounting system and requesting
                transfer of a fund amount to the casino accounting system.
3.      The computer-implemented method of claim 2 further comprising:
        receiving, by the primary content controller, the fund request;
        transferring, by the primary content controller, the fund amount destined for the casino
                accounting system;
        intercepting, by the secondary content controller, the fund amount;
        providing, by the secondary content controller, the fund amount for wagers on the
                secondary content on the mobile device.
4.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein detecting a communication to
add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game machine includes detecting receipt, by a bill
validator, of money or a ticket.

                                                  62
5.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising:
        procuring, by the secondary content controller, funds from a remote player account for
                wagering on the secondary content.
6.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising:
        transmitting, by the secondary content controller, a request for a fund amount for
                wagering on secondary game content;
        receiving, by a secondary content server, the request for the fund amount;
        procuring, by the secondary content server, the fund amount from a player account
                server; and
        transmitting, by the secondary content server, the fund amount to the secondary content
                controller.
7.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising:
        after the pairing, providing to the mobile device, by the secondary content controller,
                authorization to place a secondary wager on the primary game content.
8.      The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the providing the authorization
to place the secondary wager comprises causing an application on the mobile device to present
content for placing a wager on a potential occurrence of an event of the primary game content.
9.      The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising:
        determining, by the secondary content controller, that the mobile device is authorized to
                access gaming funds from the credit meter; and
        using funds from the credit meter to place the secondary wager.
10.     One or more machine-readable storage media having instructions stored thereon, which
when executed by a set of one or more processors, cause the set of one or more processors to
perform operations for providing secondary wagering content in a wagering game system, the
instructions comprising:
        instructions to detect, by a secondary content controller residing in a wagering game
                machine, a communication to add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game
                machine;

                                                  63
        instructions to detect, by the secondary content controller via a network communication
                interface, a request to pair a mobile device with the secondary content controller;
        instructions to communicatively pair, via the network communication interface, the
                mobile device with the secondary content controller after detecting the
                communication to add funds to the credit meter;
        instructions to present, by the primary content controller, primary game content on a
                display device of the wagering game machine;
        instructions to present, by the secondary content controller, secondary game content on
                the mobile device, wherein the secondary content controller is independent of a
                primary content controller.
11.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 10, the instructions
further comprising:
        instructions to send, by the secondary controller to the primary content controller, a fund
                request appearing to originate from a remote casino accounting system and
                requesting transfer of a fund amount to the casino accounting system.
12.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 11, the instructions
further comprising:
        instructions to receive, by the primary content controller, the fund request;
        instructions to transfer, by the primary content controller, the fund amount destined for
                the casino accounting system;
        instructions to intercept, by the secondary content controller, the fund amount;
        instructions to provide, by the secondary content controller, the fund amount for wagers
                on the secondary content on the mobile device.
13.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the
instructions to detect a communication to add funds to a credit meter of the wagering game
machine includes instructions to detect receipt, by a bill validator, of money or a ticket.
14.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 10, the instructions
further comprising:
        instructions to procure, by the secondary content controller, funds from a remote player
                account for wagering on the secondary content.

                                                   64
15.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 10, the instructions
further comprising:
        instructions to transmit, by the secondary content controller, a request for a fund amount
                for wagering on secondary game content;
        instructions to receive, by a secondary content server, the request for the fund amount;
        instructions to procure, by the secondary content server, the fund amount from a player
                account server; and
        instructions to transmit, by the secondary content server, the fund amount to the
                secondary content controller.
16.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 10, the instructions
further comprising:
        instructions to after the pairing, provide to the mobile device, by the secondary content
                controller, authorization to place a secondary wager on the primary game content.
17.     The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions to provide the
authorization to place the secondary wager comprise instructions to cause an application on the
mobile device to present content for placing a wager on a potential occurrence of an event of the
primary game content.
18.     The computer-implemented machine-readable medium of claim 10, the instructions
further comprising:
        instructions to determine, by the secondary content controller, that the mobile device is
                authorized to access gaming funds from the credit meter; and
        instructions to use funds from the credit meter to place the secondary wager.
19.     A system comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        one or more machine-readable storage media having instructions stored thereon, which
                when executed by a set of one or more processors, cause the set of one or more
                processors to perform operations for providing secondary wagering content in a
                wagering game system, the instructions comprising:

                                                  65
                instructions to detect, by a secondary content controller residing in a wagering
                        game machine, a communication to add funds to a credit meter of the
                        wagering game machine;
                instructions to detect, by the secondary content controller via a network
                        communication interface, a request to pair a mobile device with a
                        secondary content controller;
                instructions to communicatively pair, via the network communication interface,
                        the mobile device with the secondary content controller after detecting the
                        communication to add funds to the credit meter;
                instructions to present, by the primary content controller, primary game content
                        on a display device of the wagering game machine;
                instructions to present, by the secondary content controller, secondary game
                        content on the mobile device, wherein the secondary content controller is
                        independent of a primary content controller.
20.     The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions to detect a communication to add funds
to a credit meter of the wagering game machine includes instructions to detect receipt, by a bill
validator, of money or a ticket.
21.     The system of claim 19, the instructions further comprising:
        instructions to procure, by the secondary content controller, funds from a remote player
                account for wagering on the secondary game content.
22.     The system of claim 19, the instructions further comprising:
        instructions to transmit, by the secondary content controller, a request for a fund amount
                for wagering on the secondary game content;
        instructions to receive, by a remote secondary content server, the request for the fund
                amount;
        instructions to procure, by the secondary content server, the fund amount from a player
                account server; and
        instructions to transmit, by the secondary content server, the fund amount to the
                secondary content controller.

                                                  66
23.    The system of claim 19, the instructions further comprising:
       instructions to after the pairing, provide to the mobile device, by the secondary content
                controller, authorization to place a secondary wager on the primary game content.
24.    The system of claim 23, wherein the instructions to provide the authorization to place the
secondary wager comprise instructions to cause an application on the mobile device to present
content for placing a wager on a potential occurrence of an event of the primary game content.
25.    The system of claim 19, the instructions further comprising:
       instructions to determine, by the secondary content controller, that the mobile device is
                authorized to access gaming funds from the credit meter; and
       instructions to use funds from the credit meter to place the secondary wager.
                                        Bally Gaming, Inc.
                                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                                                                                                       <removed-apn>
                                                                                                                       2015210435                       15 Aug
                                                                                                                                                        07     2015
                                                                                                                                                           Dec 2017
                  1 04                     1 02                       1 17          1/14                                                       1 03
1 00
                                                                                                                                                              M. MILLER
                                                                                              BET CLOUD MOBILE
                                                                                                                    BET TYPE
                                                                                              BET 1                  PROP.                  FOR:
                                                                                                      1 11           1 13       105     1 17           109        1 15     107
                                                                                              I BET THAT...
                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                WILL                                        IN THE
                                                                                                                                                             10          SPINS
                                                                                               OCCUR IN A PAYLINE                            NEXT
                                                                                                                                      119             1 25         121
                                                                                                             1 23                                                                DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                  108
           1 10            1 14   1 16                  1 18          1 20
                                                                                               BET
                                                                                                                                                                                                     INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                                                                              100       CREDITS                  MAKE BET
             +                +                                                               COST:
          30             $.01      $0.30                SPIN          2550
             -                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                                                              + BET            1 27
          LINES      BET / LINE   TOTAL BET                     CREDITS
                                         1 60
                                                                             DATA PERTINENT                                                    190
  1 61                   1 62                                  1 63                                          1 31
                                                                             TO SECONDARY
                                                                                BETTING
    PRIMARY              SECONDARY
   CONTENT                CONTENT
  CONTROLLER             CONTROLLER                                                (PAIRED)                                 1 30
                                                                                   FIG. 1

                                              TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                       INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                              DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                   2/14
15 Aug
07     2015
   Dec 2017
                2 00
                                                                                                                2 12
                                         BEGIN
                                                                                     DETECT OCCURRENCE OF
                                                                                     THE EVENT VIA GAME PLAY
                                                                                      OF THE WAGERING GAME
<removed-apn>
2015210435
                             ASSOCIATE A MOBILE DEVICE WITH                                  CONTENT
              2 02             A WAGERING GAME MACHINE
                                CONFIGURED TO PRESENT
                                                                                         2 14
                                WAGERING GAME CONTENT
                                                                                                  WINNING
                                                                                                                   NO
                                                                                                OUTCOME FOR
                                                                                                 SECONDARY
                                                                                                    BET?
                                 DETECT INITIATION OF A
                             SECONDARY BET ON A POTENTIAL                                        YES
                              OCCURRENCE OF AN EVENT OF
              2 04           THE WAGERING GAME CONTENT;                                  2 16
                             SECONDARY BET IS INITIATED BY
                                  THE MOBILE DEVICE                                                 ACCESS
                                                                                                  TO SESSION      NO
                                                                                                  FUNDS FOR
                                                                                                WAGERING GAME
                                 2 06                                                              CONTENT?
                                        ACCESS
                       YES                               NO                                       YES
                                      TO SESSION
                                      FUNDS FOR                                   2 18                                  2 20
                                    WAGERING GAME
                2 08                   CONTENT?
                                                                  2 10
                                                                                     PROVIDE                  PROVIDE
                                                                                  SECONDARY BET           SECONDARY BET
                   OBTAIN AT                                                      WIN AMOUNT TO            WIN AMOUNT TO
                    LEAST A                        OBTAIN FUNDS                    GAME SESSION           PLAYER ACCOUNT
                  PORTION OF                           FOR
                 GAME SESSION                       SECONDARY
                 FUNDS TO FUND                      BET FROM A
                      THE                             PLAYER
                  SECONDARY                          ACCOUNT
                      BET
                                                                                                        END
                                                                 FIG. 2

                                                                              <removed-apn>
                                                                              2015210435              15 Aug
                                                                                                      07     2015
                                                                                                         Dec 2017
                    3 60
                                                                  3/14
3 00                                                                                                  3 30
             3 61      WAGERING GAME MACHINE                                         MOBILE DEVICE
                                                           3 63               3 33                         3 31
                         PRIMARY
                        CONTENT
                       CONTROLLER
                                                                                               SECONDARY
                                                   WIRELESS                  WIRELESS           CONTENT
                                                 COMMUNICATION             COMMUNICATION       CONTROLLER
                                                     UNIT                      UNIT
                       SECONDARY
        3 62            CONTENT
                       CONTROLLER
                                                                                                                    DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                                                                                        INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                          3 21
                                                                                                                                                                        TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                  COMMUNICATIONS
                                     NETWORK
          CASINO
        ACCOUNTING                                                                         SECONDARY
          SYSTEM                                                                            CONTENT
                                                                                             SERVER
                                       ACCOUNT
       340                 3 70         SERVER
                                                                                                     380
                                                                  FIG. 3

                                                                                                                         <removed-apn>
                                                                                                                         2015210435                   15 Aug
                                                                                                                                                      07     2015
                                                                                                                                                         Dec 2017
                     3 60
                                                                                                 4/14
3 00                                                                                                                                                  3 30
                        WAGERING GAME MACHINE                              FUND GAME
              3 61                                                     A SESSION             DETECT PAIRING                        MOBILE DEVICE
                                                                                             BEACON AND                  3 33                             3 31
                                                                                                         CB
                          PRIMARY                                                            LAUNCH APP                                                                     I
                         CONTENT                                            B
                        CONTROLLER                                        TRANSMIT                                                                                   PRESENT
                                                                          PAIRING BEACON                                                                             SECONDARY
                                                                                                                                                                     CONTET
                                                                                                                                             SECONDARY
                                                    WIRELESS             D PAIRING                PAIRING E            WIRELESS               CONTENT
                                                  COMMUNICATION                                                      COMMUNICATION           CONTROLLER                 J
                                                      UNIT                      4 14                                     UNIT                                        INITIATE
                                                                                       [PAIRING DATA]                                                                SECONDARY
                                                                                                                                                                     BET USING
                        SECONDARY                                                                                                                                    APP
                         CONTENT                                                       BLUETOOTH
           3 62
                        CONTROLLER                                                     CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                 DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                       363                                              320
            PROVIDE                                                                                           ESTABLISH F                          3 22
       G    INFORMATION                                                                                       SECURE                                                 3 34
                                                                                                                                                                                                     INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
            ABOUT PRIMARY                                    3 65                                             WIRELESS
            GAME CONTENT                   3 21                                                                                            SECURE                [SECONDARY
                                                                                                              CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                                    [INFORMATION ABOUT                                      3 81          WIRELESS               BET DATA]
                                                                    PRIMARY GAME CONTENT]                                                 NETWORK
                                                                                                                      [SECONDARY
                                   COMMUNICATIONS                                                                     CONTENT DATA]
                                      NETWORK
                                                                                                               PROVIDE SECONDARY CONTENT
             CASINO                                                                                            TO MOBILE DEVICE H
           ACCOUNTING                                                                                                                    SECONDARY
             SYSTEM                                                                                                                       CONTENT
                                                                          382          [FUNDS REQUEST]
                                                                                                                   REQUEST                 SERVER
                                        ACCOUNT                                                                    FUNDS FOR
       340                  3 70         SERVER                                                                    SECONDARY
                                                                                                                   BET       K                      380
                                                                                                FIG. 4

                                                                                                                   <removed-apn>
                                                                                                                   2015210435                    15 Aug
                                                                                                                                                 07     2015
                                                                                                                                                    Dec 2017
                     3 60
                                                                                            5/14
3 00                                                                                                                                             3 30
              3 61      WAGERING GAME MACHINE                                                                                 MOBILE DEVICE
                                                             3 63                                                  3 33                              3 31
       M1                 PRIMARY
                         CONTENT
   PROVIDE              CONTROLLER
   CREDIT DATA
                                                                                                                                        SECONDARY
            5 41                                    WIRELESS                                                     WIRELESS                CONTENT
                                                  COMMUNICATION                                                COMMUNICATION            CONTROLLER
       [CREDIT                                        UNIT                                                         UNIT
       DATA]                                                                                320
                        SECONDARY
                         CONTENT                                               BLUETOOTH
          3 62
                        CONTROLLER                                             CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                               DKT #: 100.271PRV
   N1                                                 L1 DETERMINE AUTHORIZED TO ACCESS GAME FUNDS                                            3 22
            SEND MODIFIED                                 AND REQUEST PORTON OF GAME SESSION FUNDS
            CREDIT DATA                                                                                          5 35
                                                                                                                                                                                   INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                           3 21     O1 ASSOCIATE FUNDS WITH PAIRING IDENTIFIER AND PROVIDE                            SECURE
                                                        FUNDS FROM GAME SESSION FOR SECONDARY BET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
              5 42                                                                                           [INDICATION OF          WIRELESS
                                                                                                             TRANSACTION]            NETWORK
                                                                      5 83
        [MODIFIED                  COMMUNICATIONS                            [FUNDS DATA]
       CREDIT DATA]                   NETWORK
                                                                                                                        TRANSACT
                                                                                                                        SECONDARY BET
                                                                                                                 P1
           CASINO
         ACCOUNTING                                                                                                                 SECONDARY
           SYSTEM                                                                                                                    CONTENT
                                                                                                                                      SERVER
                                        ACCOUNT
        340                 3 70         SERVER
                                                                                                                                               380
                                                                                        FIG. 5

                                                                                                              <removed-apn>
                                                                                                              2015210435                   15 Aug
                                                                                                                                           07     2015
                                                                                                                                              Dec 2017
                    3 60
                                                                                          6/14
3 00                                                                                                                                       3 30
             3 61      WAGERING GAME MACHINE                                                                            MOBILE DEVICE
                                                             3 63                                             3 33                             3 31
                         PRIMARY
                        CONTENT
                       CONTROLLER
                                                                                                                                   SECONDARY
                                                   WIRELESS                                                  WIRELESS               CONTENT
                                                 COMMUNICATION                                             COMMUNICATION           CONTROLLER
                                                     UNIT                                   320                UNIT
                       SECONDARY
                        CONTENT                                                BLUETOOTH
        3 62
                       CONTROLLER                                              CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                         DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                     L2 DETERMINE UNAUTHORIZED TO ACCESS GAME SESSON                                    3 22
                                                         FUNDS; NOTIFY SECONDARY CONTENT SERVER
                                                                                                            6 35
                                                                                                                                                                             INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                          3 21     O2 PROVIDE PAIRING IDENTIFIER                                                SECURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                             TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                                                                          [INDICATION OF       WIRELESS
                                                                                                          TRANSACTION]         NETWORK
                                                                      6 83
                                  COMMUNICATIONS                             [PAIRING IDENTIFIER]
                                     NETWORK
                                                                                                                   TRANSACT
                                                                                                                   SECONDARY BET
                                                                                                            P2
          CASINO                                                    684 [FUNDING FOR
        ACCOUNTING                                                      SECONDARY BET]                                        SECONDARY
                                                        N2
          SYSTEM                                                                                                               CONTENT
                                                         PROVIDE FUNDS FOR SECONDARY                REQUEST PLAYER              SERVER
                                       ACCOUNT           BET FROM SECONDARY PLAYER                  ACCOUNT FUNDS FOR
       340                 3 70         SERVER           ACCOUNT                                    SECONDARY BET
                                                                                                    AMOUNT     M2                        380
                                                                                         FIG. 6

                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>
                                                                                                                 2015210435                15 Aug
                                                                                                                                           07     2015
                                                                                                                                              Dec 2017
                    3 60
                                                                                      7/14
3 00                                                                                                                                       3 30
             3 61      WAGERING GAME MACHINE                                                                            MOBILE DEVICE
                                                           3 63                                                 3 33                           3 31
       Q
                         PRIMARY
  PERFORM               CONTENT                                                                                                                       PRESENT
  GAME                 CONTROLLER                                                                                                                     SECONDARY
  PLAY EVENTS                                                                                                                                         BET RESULTS
           7 65                                                                                                                   SECONDARY                T
                                                   WIRELESS                                                    WIRELESS            CONTENT
   [PRIMARY                                      COMMUNICATION                                               COMMUNICATION        CONTROLLER
   GAME EVENT                                        UNIT                                                        UNIT
   DATA]
                       SECONDARY
                        CONTENT                                                BLUETOOTH
        3 62
                       CONTROLLER                                              CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                                    DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                                            320
       R       DETECT EVENTS                                                                                                            3 22
               AND SEND TO
                                                                                                                                                                                        INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
               SECONDARY                                                                                         7 36
               CONTENT SERVER             3 21                                                                                  SECURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                                                                  [SECONDARY BET RESULTS]      WIRELESS
                                                              7 85                                                             NETWORK
                                                                     [PRIMARY GAME
                                  COMMUNICATIONS                     EVENT DATA]
                                     NETWORK                                                       DETERMINE SECONDARY BET RESULT;
                                                                                                   PROVIDE SECONDARY BET RESULT TO
                                                                                                   MOBILE DEVICE.
          CASINO                                                                                                 S
        ACCOUNTING                                                                                                            SECONDARY
          SYSTEM                                                                                                               CONTENT
                                                                                                                                SERVER
                                       ACCOUNT
       340                 3 70         SERVER
                                                                                                                                         380
                                                                                      FIG. 7

                                                                                                                   <removed-apn>
                                                                                                                   2015210435                15 Aug
                                                                                                                                             07     2015
                                                                                                                                                Dec 2017
                     3 60
                                                                                        8/14
3 00                                                                                                                                         3 30
                                                                        W1 INCREASE GAME SESSION
                        WAGERING GAME MACHINE                                BALANCE/CREDIT METER
              3 61                                                                                                        MOBILE DEVICE
                                                            3 63                                                   3 33                          3 31
                          PRIMARY
                         CONTENT
                        CONTROLLER
             8 67                                                                                                                   SECONDARY
                                                    WIRELESS                                                      WIRELESS           CONTENT
       [CREDIT DATA                               COMMUNICATION                                                 COMMUNICATION       CONTROLLER
       BASED ON WIN                                   UNIT                                                          UNIT
         AMOUNT]
                        SECONDARY
                         CONTENT                                              BLUETOOTH
        3 62
                        CONTROLLER                                            CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                           DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                                            320
                                                      V1 PROVIDE CREDIT DATA BASED ON                                                     3 22
                                                          WIN AMOUNT FOR SECONDARY
                                                                                                                                                                               INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                          BET
       8 68                                3 21                                                                                   SECURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                                                                                                 WIRELESS
  [CREDIT DATA                                                                                                                   NETWORK
  BASED ON WIN                                                                                       IF WIN, SEND CREDIT DATA
    AMOUNT]                        COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                     BASED ON WIN AMOUNT
                                      NETWORK
                                                                                                           U1
          CASINO
        ACCOUNTING                                                                                                              SECONDARY
          SYSTEM                                                                                                                 CONTENT
                                                                                                 [CREDIT DATA                     SERVER
                                        ACCOUNT                                                  BASED ON WIN
       340                  3 70         SERVER                                                  AMOUNT]         866
                                                                                                                                           380
                                                                                        FIG. 8

                                                                                                                     <removed-apn>
                                                                                                                     2015210435                15 Aug
                                                                                                                                               07     2015
                                                                                                                                                  Dec 2017
                    3 60
                                                                                          9/14
3 00                                                                                                                                           3 30
             3 61      WAGERING GAME MACHINE                                                                                MOBILE DEVICE
                                                               3 63                                                  3 33                          3 31
                         PRIMARY
                        CONTENT
                       CONTROLLER
                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY
                                                   WIRELESS                                                         WIRELESS           CONTENT
                                                 COMMUNICATION                                                    COMMUNICATION       CONTROLLER
                                                     UNIT                                                             UNIT
                       SECONDARY
                        CONTENT                                                  BLUETOOTH
        3 62
                       CONTROLLER                                                CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                             DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                                              320
                                                     V2 PROVIDE CREDIT DATA BASED ON                                                        3 22
                                                         WIN AMOUNT FOR SECONDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                 INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                         BET
                                          3 21                                                                                      SECURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                                                                                                   WIRELESS
                                                                                                                                   NETWORK
                                  COMMUNICATIONS                                                       IF WIN, SEND CREDIT DATA
                                                                                                       BASED ON WIN AMOUNT
                                     NETWORK
                                                                                                             U2
                                                      9 71
          CASINO                                       [CREDIT DATA
        ACCOUNTING                                     BASED ON WIN                                                               SECONDARY
          SYSTEM                                         AMOUNT]                                                                   CONTENT
                                                                                                   [CREDIT DATA                     SERVER
                                       ACCOUNT               W2 INCREASE PLAYER ACCOUNT
                                                                  BALANCE BY WIN AMOUNT            BASED ON WIN
       340                 3 70         SERVER                                                     AMOUNT]         966
                                                                                                                                             380
                                                                                          FIG. 9

                                                  TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                           INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                                 DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                     10/14
15 Aug
07     2015
   Dec 2017
                10 00
                                                                     BEGIN
<removed-apn>
2015210435
                               DETECT REQUEST TO PAIR A MOBILE DEVICE TO A SECONDARY CONTENT
              10 02                                     CONTROLLER
                              10 04
                                      PRIMARY
                                  CONTENT AVAILABLE            NO                                     10 06
                                   FOR SECONDARY
                                     WAGERING?
                                                                              DENY PAIRING OF MOBILE DEVICE
                                                                                WITH SECONDARY CONTENT
                                      YES                                             CONTROLLER
                                  PAIR MOBILE DEVICE
                      10 08        WITH SECONDARY
                                     CONTROLLER
                                            END
                                                                    FIG. 10

                                              TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                       INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                              DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                                  11/14
15 Aug
07     2015
   Dec 2017
                11 00
                                                                 BEGIN
<removed-apn>
2015210435
                                 DETECT REQUEST TO PLACE A SECONDARY BET VIA A MOBILE DEVICE
              11 02
                              11 04
                                      PRIMARY
                                  CONTENT AVAILABLE      NO
                                                                                               11 06
                                   FOR SECONDARY
                                     WAGERING?
                                                                         PREVENT PLACEMENT OF
                                                                           SECONDARY BET BY
                                      YES                                    MOBILE DEVICE
                                ENABLE PLACEMENT OF
                      11 08       SECONDARY BET
                                        END
                                                                 FIG. 11

                                                  TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                           INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                                 DKT #: 100.271PRV
              12 30                                                                                                    12 60
                                                                     12/14
15 Aug
07     2015
   Dec 2017
                                                                                      12 39
                 SECONDARY CONTENT CONTROLLER                                                            WAGERING GAME MACHINE
                                                                                                                            12 61
                               12 32
                                                                       MODIFIED          12 16
                                                OUTPUT                 OUTPUT                                   OUTPUT
                                                MODULE                                                        COMPONENTS
                                                                     12 02                  D   ATA
                                                                                       HICS
                                                                                  GRAP
<removed-apn>
2015210435
                               12 34           DETECTION                              USER INPUT
                                                MODULE                                                     INPUT COMPONENTS
                                                                               1203
                               12 36                                                                        12 63              1262
                                                                          12 05       PRIMARY
                         ADAPTED                                                     GAME DATA
                       PRESENTATON
                           DATA
                                                                       MODIFIED
                       1208                                           INPUT DATA        1206
                                               CONTROLLER
                                                 MODULE                                                     PRIMARY CONTENT
                                                                                PRIMARY GAME                  CONTROLLER
                                                                     12 07       ACCOUNTING
                                                                                    DATA
                     ADAPTED                                           ADAPTED
                  ACCOUNTING DATA                                     ACCOUNTING          1210
                                                                         DATA
                  1212
                                                                          12 20
                                                                              ACCOUNTING                                        12 01
                                                       12 14
                                                                                 DATA            12 70
                                                                                                               PRIMARY
                                                                                                                                    12 50
                                                                                                              GAME DATA
                                                    ACCOUNTING
                                                       DATA                    ACCOUNT
                              12 90                                             SERVER                          PRIMARY
                                                                                                             WAGERING GAME
                  12 25
                                          CASINO                                                                SERVER
                PRIMARY                 ACCOUNTING
                 GAME                     SYSTEM
                SESSION                                                COMMUNICATIONS
                 DATA                                                     NETWORK
                                       12 80                                                                        12 23
                                                                          1222
              SECONDARY
              GAME DATA
                                        SECONDARY
                                         CONTENT                  SECONDARY CONTENT                      MOBILE DEVICE
                                          SERVER                        DATA
                1281
                                                                                        1224
                                                                    FIG. 12

                                    TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                             INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                     DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                         13/14
15 Aug
07     2015
   Dec 2017
                                                                                EXTERNAL
                                                                 13 04
                                                                                SYSTEMS
                13 00                        13 06
                                                                                              13 24
<removed-apn>
2015210435
                          PAYOUT
              13 08
                         MECHANISM                                              EXTERNAL SYSTEM
                                                                                   INTERFACE
                          PRIMARY                                  13 22
              13 10
                          DISPLAY
                                                                                                        13 38
                                                                               LOCATION UNIT
                         SECONDARY
              13 12
                           DISPLAY
                                                                                        CPU                   13 26
              13 16     PLAYER INPUT
                           DEVICE                   I/O
                                                   BUS
                                                                                                      13 28
              13 18     INFORMATION
                           READER                                              MAIN MEMORY
                                                                            WAGERING
                                                                            GAME UNIT          13 32
              13 30
                        STORAGE UNIT
                                                                           SECONDARY             13 37
                                                                            CONTENT
                                                                           CONTROLLER
                                                        FIG. 13

                                            TITLE: MOBILE SECONDARY BETTING USER INTERFACE
                                                     INVENTORS: JOHN TOOHEY ET AL.
                                                           DKT #: 100.271PRV
                                                               14/14
15 Aug
07     2015
   Dec 2017
                                                             14 60
                  14 00
<removed-apn>
2015210435
                                                   14 14
                                            14 16
                                           14 12
                                                                                                 14 16
                                   14 18                                                         14 11
                               14 24
                      14 20
              14 20
                       14 26                                                             14 22
                                                                                 14 24
                                14 26
                                 14 20
                                                              FIG. 14

