ABSTRACT
Light therapy apparatuses are configured to expose a subject to light that is tailored to address
and/or diagnose at least one motor-related neurological condition. Blue-green light and green
light are useful for treating motor-related neurological conditions or their symptoms. Deep red
light and near infrared radiation may facilitate the repair of retinal cells and/or neurons that may
be responsible for motor-related neurological conditions. Amber, orange and red light enable the
early diagnosis or motor-related neurological conditions.

                               o1/2
10
                                                10         30,
                                               1-20
                                                                   , ~--32
                                   50
                    FIG. 1                                FIG. 3
3o
      (D O@O        0)            3-a33a
                    O(0(D 0 32133b
        0 0 0 0 ( 0,7
      0000000
       0000Od3                      0               3b3232
            00000000
              000 0@                                           D,
          FIG. 2A
        00000 O/3b       0O
                                           000
                         000        33aFI.2\-3
32a   0    0    0 0 0               33             I2            3
                 (D ( (D     \-33c
                   0000 (D(  D( 32c
32bll 0    0     00 0
          FIG. 2B
              SUBSTITUTE SHEET (RULE 26)

              APPARATUSES FOR TREATING AND/OR DIAGNOSING
                 MOTOR-RELATED NEUROLOGICAL CONDITIONS
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 5         A claim for priority is hereby made to earlier filed International patent
   application no. PCT/US2012/040284, filed pursuant to the Patent Cooperation Treaty
   on May 31, 2012 and titled "LIGHT-EMITTING APPARATUSES FOR TREATING
   AND/OR DIAGNOSING MOTOR-RELATED NEUROLOGICAL CONDITIONS,"
   the entire disclosure of which is, by this reference, hereby incorporated herein. This
10 application is a continuation-in-part of International patent application no.
   PCT/US2012/040284.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
            This disclosure relates generally to apparatuses that expose a subject to
15 wavelengths of light tailored to diagnose one or more motor-related neurological
   conditions and/or have a therapeutic effect on motor-related neurological conditions.
   Such a light exposure apparatus may be configured to tailor light that is perceived by
   the eyes of a subject.
20                                         SUMMARY
            A light therapy apparatus of the present invention employs a light source. In
   some embodiments, the light therapy apparatus includes a light-emission apparatus,
   including the light source, electrical components for operating the light source, and a
   housing for carrying the light source and the electrical components. In addition, a
25 light-emission apparatus may include controls, which cooperate with one or more of
   the electrical components to enable a user to control operation of the light source. The
   controls may provide a user with basic control over the light source; i.e., the ability to
   turn the light source on and off. In addition, the controls may provide a user with the
   ability to perform more complex functions including, but not limited to, one or more
30 of: the ability to adjust the intensity of light emitted by the light source; the ability to
   adjust the color(s) of light emitted by the light source, including ability to tailor the
   spectrum (or spectra) of light emitted by the light source; and the ability to control a
   duration of time the light source operates.

                                                 -2
            In some embodiments, the controls of a light-emission apparatus may
   comprise one or more processing elements, such as pre-programmed microcontrollers,
   one or more microprocessors, or the like. The processing element of a light-emission
   apparatus communicates with the electronics of the light-emission apparatus and,
 5 indirectly, with the light source. Accordingly, the processing element may control
   operation of the light source. In embodiments where the controls of a light-emission
   apparatus of the present invention include a processing element, the light-emission
   apparatus may also include associated input elements and output elements and, in
   some embodiments, communication elements.
10          In other embodiments, a light therapy apparatus of this disclosure includes one
   or more filters for limiting one or more wavelengths of light, including visible light, to
   which a subject is exposed. A filter may be configured for use in conjunction with a
   light source (e.g., a light emission apparatus, a standard light source, etc.) and, in
    some embodiments, it may be configured to be coupled or otherwise assembled with
15  the light source. Alternatively, a filter may be configured for use at a location remote
    from the light source, while still controlling the amounts. of light of various
    wavelengths to which a subject may be exposed.
             In one aspect, the present invention includes light therapy apparatuses that are
    configured to emit light tailored to address motor-related neurological conditions. In
20  various embodiments, such a light therapy apparatus may cause a subject to be
    exposed to visible light having at least one intensity peak at a wavelength that will
    treat a motor-related neurological condition, treat a symptom of a motor-related
    neurological condition, facilitate the repair of retinal cells that may contribute to the
    motor-related neurological condition or facilitate the repair of neurons that may be
25  responsible for the motor-related neurological condition. That at least one intensity
    peak may comprise an above ambient or an above average ambient amount of light of
    its corresponding wavelengths. The visible light that is emitted or to which a subject
    is exposed may lack above ambient or above average ambient amounts of light (i.e., it
    may include ambient, average ambient, below ambient or below average ambient
30   amounts of light) that do not treat a motor-related neurological condition, treat a
     symptom of a motor-related neurological condition, facilitate the repair of retinal cells
     that may contribute to the motor-related neurological condition or facilitate the repair
     of neurons that may be responsible for the motor-related neurological condition.
     Optionally, the visible light that is emitted or to which a subject is exposed may lack

                                                 -3
   above ambient or above average ambient amounts of light (i.e., it may include
   ambient, average ambient, below ambient or below average ambient amounts of light)
   that inhibit or regulate the production of neurochemicals, such as monoamines or
   amines, or eliciting neuroendocrine response.
 5           Examples of wavelengths that treat motor-related neurological conditions or
   their symptoms include, but are not necessarily limited to, blue-green wavelengths of
   light and green wavelengths light, which are also respectively referred to herein as
   "blue-green light" and "green light" for the sake of simplicity. Without limiting the
   scope of the present invention, "green light" refers to narrow bandwidths of light
10 (i.e., light of a single wavelength of visible green light or a narrow range of
   wavelengths of visible green light), as well as to more broad spectrum light
   (e.g., white light, other polychromatic (i.e., multi-colored) blends of light, etc.) with
   intensity peaks at one or more wavelengths of green light. "Blue-green light" also
   includes narrow bandwidths of light and polychromatic light with intensity peaks at
15 one of more wavelengths of blue-green light. A more specific example of light that
   will treat motor-related neurological conditions or their symptoms includes light that
   includes above-ambient amounts of wavelengths of 490 nm to 570 nm or of 520 nm
   to 570 nm. The majority of light (i.e., number of photons, irradiance, etc.) may
   include one or more wavelengths within either of these ranges; i.e., the light may be
20 enhanced with one or more of these wavelengths. The light may also lack ambient or
    above-ambient amounts of other wavelengths of visible light.
             Wavelengths of deep red light and near infrared light (e.g., above 650 nm
    to 900 nm, etc.) may stimulate mitochondrial repair and, thus, repair of the cells,
    including retinal cells and/or neurons, of which the mitochondria are a part. By using
25  light to stimulate the repair of retinal cells of the eye and/or neurons of the substantia
    nigra, light may also address the case of many motor-related neurological conditions.
             A light-emission apparatus may be configured to emit visible light
    (e.g., blue-green and/or green light, deep red light and/or near infrared radiation, etc.)
    at levels (e.g., intensities, photon densities, irradiances, etc.) that treat one or more
30  motor-related neurological conditions or their symptoms. In various embodiments,
    one or more therapeutic wavelengths of light may be administered at levels that
    exceed the corresponding levels of such wavelengths in standard indoor ambient
    lighting, which levels are referred to herein as "ambient levels." In some
    embodiments, one or more therapeutic wavelengths of light may be administered at

                                                   -4
   levels that exceed the average levels of these wavelengths of light in standard indoor
   lighting. These average levels are referred to herein as "average ambient levels."
             A light-emission apparatus that is configured to provide therapy for one or
   more motor-related neurological conditions may be configured to emit insufficient
 5 intensities of one or more wavelengths of light that counteract (e.g., enhance,
   exacerbate, etc.) the symptoms of one or more motor-related neurological conditions.
   Symptom-exacerbating wavelengths include visible red wavelengths, and could also
   be considered to include one or more of visible orange and amber wavelengths of
   light. In some embodiments, such a light-emission apparatus may emit therapeutic
10 light while emitting insufficient intensities of symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of
   light. In other embodiments, such a light-emission apparatus may emit therapeutic
   light without emitting or without substantially emitting one or more
    symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light. In some embodiments, insufficient
   intensities may be below ambient or ambient intensities of symptom-exacerbating
15  wavelengths of light. In other embodiments, even above-ambient intensities of
    symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light may be insufficient to exacerbate
    symptoms of a motor-related neurological condition. This may be the case where the
    symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light make up only a small portion (e.g., one
    third of the total intensity or less, etc.) of the total light emitted by the light-emission
20  apparatus or the light to which a subject is exposed.
             In some embodiments where a light-emission apparatus is configured to emit
    above-ambient levels of one or more therapeutic wavelengths of light, the
    light-emission apparatus may emit ambient amounts of light, below-ambient amounts
    of light or substantially no light outside of a range of therapeutic wavelengths. In
25  some embodiments, the light source may be configured to emit ambient or
    below-ambient levels of one or more symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light. In
    other embodiments, a light-emission apparatus may emit above-ambient levels of one
    or more wavelengths of therapeutic light while emitting substantially no light of at
    least one symptom-enhancing wavelength or no light of at least one
30   symptom-enhancing wavelength of light. Thus, the light source may be configured to
     emit light consisting essentially of, or even consist of, one or more wavelengths of
     light that address at least one motor-related neurological condition and light that does
     not enhance or exacerbate symptoms of the at least one motor-related neurological
     condition.

                                                -5
           In another aspect, a light-emission apparatus of the present invention may be
   configured to facilitate the early diagnosis of a motor-related neurological condition.
   Various embodiments of such an apparatus may emit above-ambient levels intensities
   of amber, orange and/or red light, or levels or intensities of these wavelengths that are
 5 sufficient to exacerbate a symptom of a motor-related neurological condition. In some
   embodiments, above-ambient intensities of one or more symptom exacerbating
   wavelengths of light may be administered to a subject who exhibits some symptoms
   (including early symptoms) that might be indicative of a motor-related neurological
   condition, but that do not provide a sure diagnosis of the motor-related neurological
10 condition. In other embodiments, sufficient intensities for exacerbating symptoms of a
   motor-related neurological condition may be below ambient or ambient intensities of
   symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light, such as when symptom-exacerbating
   wavelengths of light make up a sufficient amount of (e.g., one third or more, a
   majority of, etc.) the total light emitted by the light-emission apparatus or the light to
15 which a subject is exposed. When administered to such a subject, the sufficient
   intensity(ies) of one or more wavelengths of symptom exacerbating light may make
   the subject's symptoms more pronounced, or may cause the subject to temporarily
   exhibit previously unexhibited symptoms, which may enable an earlier diagnosis of
   the motor-related neurological condition. When sufficient intensities of one or more
20 symptom exacerbating wavelengths of light are administered to a subject who is
   predisposed to one or more motor-related neurological conditions may exhibit
   symptoms of the at least one motor-related neurological condition, which may enable
   the diagnosis of a motor-related neurological condition in an otherwise symptom-free
   subject.
25          In embodiments where a light emitting apparatus is configured for diagnostic
   purposes; for example, to emit one or more wavelengths that cause a subject to exhibit
    symptoms of at least one motor-related neurological condition if the subject is
   predisposed to or believed to suffer from the at least one motor-related neurological
    condition, a light source of the diagnostic apparatus may be configured to emit light
30  consisting essentially of, or even consisting of, one of more symptom-enhancing
    wavelengths of light, along with wavelengths of light that do not counteract the
    symptom enhancing wavelengths. Such a diagnostic apparatus may emit no
    wavelengths of light that are therapeutic for the at least one motor-related
    neurological condition, substantially no wavelengths of light that are therapeutic for

                                               -6
   the at least one motor-related neurological condition, or even below-ambient amounts
   of any wavelength of light that is therapeutic for the at least one motor-related
   neurological condition.
            Other features and advantages of various aspects of the present invention, as
 5 well as other aspects of the present invention, will become apparent to those of
   ordinary skill in the art through consideration of the ensuing description, the
   accompanying drawings, and the appended claims.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10          In the drawings:
            FIG. 1 is a representation of an embodiment of light-emission apparatus
   according to the present invention, in which the light-emission apparatus is configured
   to deliver light of at least one wavelength that provides a therapeutic effect for
   subjects that suffer from at least one motor-related neurological condition;
15          FIGs. 2A through 2C illustrate lights sources with different arrangements of
   light emission elements of different colors or bandwidths;
            FIG. 3 depicts an embodiment of light-emission apparatus that includes a light
    source that emits polychromatic light; and
            FIGs. 4 through 6 illustrate some embodiments of filters that may be used to
20  control the amounts of light of one or more wavelengths to which a subject is
    exposed.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            FIG. 1 provides a schematic representation of a light-emission apparatus 10
25  that incorporates teachings of the present invention. In general terms, a light-emission
    apparatus 10 of the present invention includes a light source 30 and one or more
    controls associated with the light source 30. The light source 30 may include one or
    more light emission elements 32, each which may comprise any suitable type of light
    emitting device known in the art (e.g., a light emitting diode (LED), a fluorescent
30  lamp, a cold cathode fluorescent lamp (CCFL), etc.). Collectively, the light emission
    elements 32 of the light source 30 may be configured to emit light of one or more
    desired wavelengths, each at an above-ambient intensity or photon density.
             The light source 30 of the light-emission apparatus 10 is, in various
    embodiments, configured to emit above-ambient levels, or intensities, photon

                                               -7
   densities or irradiances, of one or more wavelengths of light that are tailored to
   address one or more motor-related neurological conditions. In some embodiments, the
   light emitted by the light source 30 may be tailored to address one or more primary
   symptoms of a motor-related neurological condition. The light emitted by the light
 5 source 30 may also be tailored to address one or more secondary symptoms of the
   motor-related neurological condition (e.g., anxiety, depression, insomnia,
   hypersonmia, etc.). Additionally, the light emitted by the light source 30 may be
   tailored to exclude, or at least include insufficient levels or intensities, of wavelengths
   of light that may exacerbate one or more primary or secondary symptoms of the
10 motor-related neurological condition. In some embodiments, insufficient levels or
   intensities may be below ambient or ambient levels or intensities of
   symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light. In other embodiments, even
   above-ambient levels or intensities of symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light
   may be insufficient to exacerbate symptoms of a motor-related neurological
15 condition, for example, when the symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light make
   up only a small portion (e.g., one third of the total intensity or less, etc.) of the total
   light emitted by the light-emission apparatus or the light to which a subject is
   exposed.
             By way of reference, levels of various wavelengths of light are considered, for
20 purposes of this disclosure, to be "above-ambient" when they exceed the same levels
   of the same wavelengths of light present in standard indoor lighting. Conversely, for
   purposes of this disclosure, levels of various wavelengths of light are considered to be
    "below-ambient" when they are less than the same levels of the same wavelengths of
    light present in standard indoor lighting. Standard indoor lighting is generally
25  so-called "white light," which is more accurately referred to as "polychromatic light,"
    having an intensity of 50 lux to 500 lux. The term "ambient," when used in the
    context of levels of one or more wavelengths of light, may refer to the levels of
    various wavelengths of light present in a particular type of polychromatic light at one
    ambient intensity (e.g., 50 lux, 500 lux, and intensity between 50 lux and 500 lux,
30  etc.), the average levels of various wavelengths of light present in one or more types
    of polychromatic light at two or more ambient intensities, or the upper and lower
    levels of one or more wavelengths of light at the upper and lower ends of a range of
    ambient intensities of polychromatic light from one or more sources.

                                                   -8
            At about 50 lux, standard indoor lighting (incandescent and/or fluorescent) has
   a collective photon density of 3.70 x 1013 photons/cm 2/s and a collective irradiance
   of 13.2 pW/cm 2 (or 1.32 x 10- W/cn). The blue-to-green (e.g., 460 nm to 570 nm,
   etc.) portion of the spectrum of about 50 lux standard indoor lighting has a photon
 5 density of 1.35 x 1013 photons/cm 2/s and an irradiance of 5.1 pW/CnM.       These values,
   as well as the photon density and irradiance of narrower wavelength ranges in the
   blue-to-green in standard indoor lighting having an intensity of about 50 lux, are
   included in the following table:
10                                             TABLE 1         4
                           Standard Indoor Light at About 50 lux
   Color/Wavelength Range              Photon Density            Irradiance       Lux
                                       (photons/cm 2 /second) (ptWatts/cn 2)
   Polychromatic (white)              ____3.70 x 10'3                  13.2             47
                                 -- ----  --------    ~TT~--              -   -      -
   Blue (460 nm to 500 nm)                    3.31 x 10-                1.4              2
   Green (500 nm to 570 nm)                    1.03 x 10               3.8              22
   Blue-to-Green
   (460 nm to 570 nm)                          1.35 x 1013              5.1             23
   490 nm to 565 un                                Z.02
                                                    X10                 3.8             20
   520 m to 565 mn                            7.25 x 10                2.6               17
   525 nm to 555 nm                            4.81 x 1012              1.8              11
   520 nr to 539 nn                            2.68x10'2                1.0              6
            The amber-to-red (e.g., above 570 nm to 640 nm, etc.) portion of the spectrum
   of about 50 lux standard indoor lighting has an intensity of about 24 lux, a photon
                                         2
   density of 2.04 x 1013 photons/c        /s and an irradiance of 6.7 pW/cm 2 . The irradiance
15 of amber-to-red light in standard indoor lighting at about 50 lux exceeds the
   irradiance of the blue-to-green "effective" spectrum of standard indoor lighting at
    about 50 lux.
            At about 500 lux, the collective photon density of standard indoor lighting
    is 3.69 x 10" photons/cm /s and the collective irradiance of standard indoor lighting
20  is 133.5 pW/cm 2 . At about 500 lux, the blue-to-green portion of the standard indoor
    lighting spectrum has a photon density of 1.53 x 1014 photons/cM 2/s and an irradiance
    of 58.4 pW/cm 2. These values, as well as the photon density and irradiance of
    narrower wavelength ranges in the blue-to-green in standard indoor lighting having an
    intensity of about 500 lux, are included in the following table:
25

                                                -9
                                          TABLE 2
                          Standard Indoor Light at About 500 lux
   Color/Wavelength Range           Photon Density           Irradiance      Lux
                                    (photons/cn 2/second)    (ptWatts/cm 2)
   Polychromatic (white)                  3.69 x 1014             133.5           479
   Blue (460 nm to 500 nm)                4.09 x 10       -       16.9-18
   Green (500 nm to 570 nm)               1.14 x 10'4             42.0            238
   Blue-to-Green                          1.53 x 101              58.4
   (460 nm to 570 nm)                                                             256
   490 nm to 565nm                        1.15x10                 42.9            223
   520 nm to 565 nm                       7.79 x 10               28.5             181
   525 nm to 555 nm                                                18.9
                                                                   185.14x10       121
   520 nm to 539mn                        3.03x10                  11.4            66
           The amber-to-red portion of the spectrum of about 500 lux standard indoor
   lighting has an intensity of about 225 lux, a photon density
 5 of 1.85 x 101 photons/cm2/s and an irradiance of 60.4 pW/cm2 . The irradiance of
   amber-to-red light in standard indoor lighting at about 500 lux exceeds the irradiance
   of the blue-to-green "effective" spectrum of standard indoor lighting at about 500 lux.
           Based on the foregoing, when "ambient" includes an average of the level of
   one or more bandwidths of light in polychromatic light of about 50 lux and the level
10 of the same bandwidth(s) of light in polychromatic light of about 500 lux, the ambient
   levels of the bandwidths set forth in TABLES 1 and 2 may include the ambient values
   for standard indoor lighting identified in TABLE 3.
                                           TABLE 3
                    Average Ambient Levels of Standard Indoor Light
    Color/Wavelength Range           Photon Density           Irradiance     Lux
                                     (photons/cm 2 /second)   (pWatts/cm 2)
    Polychromatic (white)                  2.03 x 1014             73.4            263
    Blue (460 nmi to 500 nm)               2.21 x 10                9.1             10
    Green (500 nm to 570 nr)               6.19 x 10               22.9            130
    Blue-to-Green
    (460 nm to 570 nm)                     8.35 x 1013             31.8            140
    490 nm to 565 nm                       6.24 X 10               23.4            122
    520 n to 565 un                        4.26 x 10"              15.6             99
    525 n to 555 un                        2.81 x    10 n          10.3             66
    520 nm to 539nm                        1. 6 5 -x 1-0            6.2             36
15
            The amber-to-red portion of the spectrum of ambient standard indoor lighting
                                                                                  2
    has an intensity of about 125 lux, a photon density of 1.03 x 1014 photons/cm /s and

                                               -10
   an irradiance of 33.6 pW/cm 2. The irradiance of amber-to-red light in standard indoor
   lighting of average intensity exceeds the irradiance of the blue-to-green "effective"
   spectrum of standard indoor lighting at average intensity.
            As an alternative to defining "ambient" in terms of an average, "ambient" light
 5 may include polychromatic light within a range of intensities, photon densities and/or
   irradiances, or energies, along with the levels of light within-various bandwidths of
   polychromatic light within such a range. Levels of various wavelengths of light may
   be considered to be "above-ambient" when they exceed the same levels of the same
   wavelengths of light in an ambient range. Conversely, levels of various wavelengths
10 of light may be considered to be "below-ambient" when they are less than the same
   levels of the same wavelengths of light present in the ambient range. For purposes of
   this disclosure, the low end of "ambient" levels may comprise the levels of each
   wavelength range present in about 50 lux polychromatic light, while the high end of
   "ambient" levels comprises the levels of various wavelength ranges present in
15 about 500 lux polychromatic light. With this definition of ambient, below-ambient
   levels would include below-about 50 lux levels, while above-ambient levels would
   include above-about 500 lux levels.
            As a point of reference, incandescent indoor lighting, which has a collective
    ambient intensity of about 50 lux to about 500 lux, is composed primarily of amber
20  and red wavelengths of light, with some green light. Green light makes up only a
   small portion of the spectrum output by incandescent indoor lighting. Thus, the
   intensity of the green wavelengths present in incandescent indoor lighting is
    significantly less than 200 lux. Fluorescent indoor lighting has the signature of
    mercury, with three intensity peaks: a first peak in the indigo-deep blue
25 range (435 nm-436 nm); a second peak in the green-yellow range (540 nm-560 nm);
    and a third peak at the red wavelength from 580 nm to 640 nm. As with incandescent
    indoor lighting, the intensity of fluorescent indoor lighting is only about 50 lux to
    about 500 lux. The deep blue and green-yellow peaks of such light are, of course, less
    intense than the collective intensity of light output by fluorescent indoor lighting.
30          As an option to characterizing light in terms of its level or intensity relative to
    ambient levels, the light that is administered to a subject in connection with the
    diagnosis or treatment of a motor-related neurological condition (or for any other
    purpose) may characterized in terms of the relative proportions or ratios of certain
    wavelengths, bandwidths and/or intensity peaks. Without limitation, when the light

                                              -11
   emitted by a light source has a particular effect, the intensity or irradiance of the
   wavelength(s) of light responsible for that effect a light source may make up a certain
   proportion or ratio of the overall light emitted by that light source (e.g., more than a
   third, more than half, more than two-thirds, 95% or more, etc.). The following table
 5 compares the ratios of red to non-red visible light of five (5) available light sources
   (the BRITE LITE 6, the LITEBOOK ELITE, the CRI LITE, the BRITE LITE 3 and
   the NORTHSTART) to two light sources that have been configured to incorporate
   teachings of this disclosure (the SPECTRAMAX).
10                                          TABLE 4
                        Total                              Ratio of Red to
                       Visible    Yellow/                 Non-Red Visible      Ratio of Red to
                    Irradiance     Green        Red             Light           Yellow/Green
                                                           Ratio of 571 nm
                                                              to 649 nm        Ratio of 571 nm
                                                                   to             to 649 nm
                      pW/cm3      p.W/cm3     p.W/cm3      380 nm to780nm              to
     Light             380 nm      520 nm      579 mn     excluding 571 nm          520 mn
     Source          to 780 mn   to 570 nm   to 649 nm        to 649 nm           to 570 nm
     Brite Lite 6        584         154         149            34.3%                97%
     LiteBook
     Elite               530         131         198            59.6%                151%
     CRI Lite           1322         359         414            45.6%                115%
     Brite Lite 3       1749         484         760            76.8%                157%
     NorthStar          1828         528         541            42.0%                102%
     SpectraMax          643         169          67             11.6%                40%
     SpectraMax          270          71          67             33.0%                94%
    The data from TABLE 4 indicate that of all the visible total intensity of light emitted
    by the first SPECTRAMAX sample, which provides a therapeutic effect for
    motor-related neurological conditions, the amount of red light emitted is only 11.6%
    of the amount of all other wavelengths of visible light emitted, and the level of red
15  light emitted is only 40% of the level of blue-green light emitted. The second
    SPECTRAMAX also provides effective therapy for motor-related neurological
    conditions, and emits 33% as much red light as all other wavelengths of visible light,
    and 94% as much red light as blue-green light. When the amount of red light emitted
    by a light source is at most 33% of the amount of all other wavelengths of visible light
20  emitted by that light source and/or the amount of red light emitted by the light source

                                              -12
   is at most 95% of the blue-green light emitted by that light source, that light source
   may be useful for treating a motor-related neurological condition.
            When administered to the eyes of a subject (i.e., ocularly) in above-ambient
   levels, light within the range of blue wavelengths (e.g., minimum wavelength
 5 of 460 nm, etc.) to blue-green wavelengths (e.g., minimum wavelength
   of 490 mn, etc.) to green wavelengths (e.g., maximum wavelength of 570 nm, etc.)
   has a positive, or beneficial, effect on motor-related neurological conditions and their
   symptoms, including both primary and secondary symptoms. See, e.g., International
   patent application no. PCT/IB2012/002553, titled "METHODS FOR PREVENTING
10 AND TREATING MOTOR-RELATED NEUROLOGICAL CONDITIONS," filed
   on December 3, 2012 (the "'553 PCT Application"), the entire disclosure of which is,
   by this reference, hereby incorporated herein. It is believed that the administration of
   light including above-ambient intensity peaks centered at any location within the
   blue-green to green range of wavelengths will benefit subjects who suffer from
15 motor-related neurological conditions.
            The ocular administration of above-ambient levels of any of these wavelengths
   of light may stimulate a dopaminergic response in the body of a subject, which may in
   some instances vary levels or activity of one or more monoamines (e.g., melatonin,
   serotonin, dopamine, derivatives and/or analogs of the foregoing, etc.), restore a
20 balance of chemicals in the brain of a subject (e.g., moderate (e.g., decrease, etc.)
   melatonin production by the subject, moderate (e.g., increase, etc.) dopamine and/or
   serotonin production by the subject, etc.), with the degree of restoration and/or
   moderation being a function of the wavelength(s) and/or the level(s) of light
    administered to the subject. Light therapy with an apparatus that incorporates
25  teachings of the present invention stimulate a dopaminergic response, which can
   restore or provide balance to levels of one or more monoamines (e.g., melatonin,
    serotonin dopamine, etc.) in a subject's brain. For the sake of simplicity, the terms
    "melatonin," "serotonin" and "dopamine," as used herein, respectively include
    melatonin and analogs or derivatives of melatonin, serotonin and analogs of serotonin
30  and dopamine and analogs or derivatives of dopamine. Amounts or levels of one or
    more monoamines within the body of a subject may be adjusted in a manner that
    addresses a motor-related neurological condition. The adjustment of monoamine
    levels in the body of a subject includes, but is not necessarily limited to, adjusting or

                                               -13
   balancing melatonin or serotonin levels at particular times of the day (e.g., late
   afternoon, early evening, etc.).
           Light within the range of amber wavelengths (e.g., wavelengths of more
   than 570 nm, etc.) to red wavelengths (e.g., maximum wavelength of 650 mn,
 5 750 nm, etc.), when ocularly administered to a subject in sufficient levels, may
   exacerbate any motor-related neurological conditions from which the subject may
   suffer, or at least one of the symptoms of any such motor-related neurological
   condition. See, e.g., the '553 PCT Application. Specifically, exposure to amber,
   orange and red wavelengths of light may cause a subject who is predisposed to a
10 motor-related neurological condition and/or a subject who suffers from, but has not
   yet clearly exhibited symptoms of one or more motor-related neurological conditions,
   to exhibit one or more symptoms of the motor-related neurological condition.
   Moreover, when the eyes of a subject are exposed to sufficient levels of amber to red
   wavelengths of light (e.g., light having wavelengths of greater than 570 nm, up
15 to 650 nm; of greater than 570 nm, up to 750 nm; etc.), dopaminergic activity by the
   subject's body may be temporarily inhibited (e.g., melatonin production by the subject
   may be enhanced, dopamine production by the subject may be inhibited, etc.).
   Above-ambient levels or intensities of symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light
   may be sufficient to exacerbate symptoms of a motor-related neurological condition.
20 In some embodiments, sufficient levels or intensities may be below ambient or
   ambient levels or intensities of symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light, such as
   when symptom-exacerbating wavelengths of light make up a sufficient amount of
   (e.g., one third or more, a majority of, etc.) the total light emitted by the
   light-emission apparatus or the light to which a subject is exposed.
25          Wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation above 650 nm, including visible
   light and infrared radiation, may promote or stimulate mitochondrial repair. In the
   eyes, the promotion or stimulation of mitochondrial repair may facilitate the repair of
   damaged retinal cells, which damage may be at least partially responsible for
   motor-related neurological conditions, and, thus, at least partial avoidance and/or
30 reversal of the motor-related neurological condition. In the substantia nigra, the
   promotion or stimulation of mitochondrial repair may facilitate repair of damaged
    neurons responsible for a motor-related neurological condition and, thus, at least
   partial reversal of the motor-related neurological condition.

                                              -14
            As indicated previously herein, the light source 30 of a light-emission
   apparatus 10 may be configured to emit light of one or more predetermined, and
   relatively narrow bandwidths, or wavelength ranges. The light source 30 may be
   configured to address a motor-related neurological condition, or at least one or more
 5 primary and/or secondary symptoms of such a condition. The light source 30 may be
   configured to emit light that causes a subject to elicit a neurological or
   neuroendocrine response. The light emitted by the light source 30 may have a
   therapeutic effect on one or more motor-related neurological conditions or their
   symptoms. A light-emission apparatus 10 of the present invention may be configured
10 to stimulate a dopaminergic response, which may moderate levels of one or more
   monoamines in the body of a subject (e.g., by affecting the production of melatonin,
   serotonin and/or dopamine by the subject, etc.). A decrease in certain monoamine
   levels may result from stimulation of the subject's body to decrease production of
   those monoamines or in any other manner. Likewise, an increase in other monoamine
15 levels may result from stimulation of the subject's body to increase production of
   those monoamines. For example, certain wavelengths of light may stimulate
   dopamine, serotonin, etc., while suppressing or decreasing the production of
   melatonin. Thus, in some embodiments, the light source 30 of a light-emission
   apparatus 10 may be configured to emit light that provides a desired change in the
20 subject's monoamine levels.
            In some embodiments, the light source 30 may be configured to emit, at an
   above-ambient level, light that addresses the motor-related neurological condition or
   any of its symptoms in a positive manner (e.g., at least one bandwidth of light with at
   least one intensity peak centered in the range of 460 nm to 570 nm, inclusive; in the
25 range of 490 nm to 570 nn, inclusive; in the range of 520 nm to 570 mn,
   inclusive; etc). The desired therapeutic effect may be achieved by ocularly exposing a
   subject to an above-ambient level of at least one bandwidth of light with the at least
   one intensity peak centered in the range of blue to green light (e.g., 460 nm
    to 570 nm, inclusive), blue-green to green light (e.g., 490 nm to 570 nm, inclusive) or
30 green light (e.g., 520 nm to 570 nm, inclusive). The at least one intensity peak may
   comprise the most intense peak of visible light to which a subject is exposed. As
    another option, the majority of light to which the subject is exposed may be within
    one or more of the blue to green, blue-green to green or green light ranges and, thus,
    may be said to be "enhanced" with one or more of these colors of visible light. As a

                                               -15
   non-limiting example, the light therapy apparatus may be configured to expose a
   subject to light tailored to stimulate a dopaminergic response, which may cause
   changes in the levels of, or balance the ratio of, one or more monoamines (e.g., a
   decrease in the level of melatonin, an increase in the level of dopamine and/or
 5 serotonin, etc.) in the subject's body.
            Such an embodiment of light source 30 may also be configured to emit
   ambient levels of light, below-ambient levels of light or substantially no light outside
   of the therapeutic range. In a more specific embodiment, the light source 30 may be
   configured to emit ambient or below-ambient levels of light that may exacerbate the
10 motor-related neurological condition, or one or more of its symptoms. As an even
   more specific example, the light source 30 may be configured to emit ambient or
   below-ambient levels of light that may inhibit dopaminergic activity by the body of a
   subject. Even more specifically, the light source 30 may be configured ot emit
   ambient or below-ambient levels of light that may increase melatonin levels or
15 decrease dopamine or serotonin levels within the body of a subject. Above-ambient
   dosages of bandwidths of light with intensity peaks centered at more than 570 nm
    to 650 nm, at more than 570 nn to 750 nm, etc., are known to exacerbate
    motor-related neurological conditions or their symptoms and to inhibit dopaminergic
    activity, and are believed to increase melatonin levels and decrease dopamine and
20  serotonin levels.
             In another aspect, a light-emission apparatus 10 may include a light source 30
    configured to exacerbate one or more motor-related neurological conditions or their
    symptoms experienced by a subject. Without limitation, the light source 30 may be
    configured to temporarily inhibit a dopaminergic response by a subject (e.g., increase
25  melatonergic activity within the body of a subject, decrease levels of dopamine within
    the body of the subject, decrease dopaminergic activity, etc.). One or more
    motor-related neurological conditions may be exacerbated by ocularly exposing the
    subject to at least one bandwidth of light with a peak centered in the range of more
    than 570 nm to 750 nm, inclusive. This effect may also be achieved with ambient or
30  below ambient levels of light with at least one bandwidth of light peaking in the range
    of 570 nm to 750nm, when that light is isolated from or produces a higher ratio of
    light than the range of 460 - 570 nm. In some embodiments, such a light source 30
     may be configured not to emit above-ambient levels of light that may be therapeutic
     for any of the motor-related neurological conditions or their symptoms. In other

                                               -16
   embodiments, such a light source 30 may be configured to emit light where the ratio
   of 570nm - 750 nm light is greater than the ratio of 460 - 570 nm light. Any of these
   concepts may be useful for stimulating melatonin production by the subject and, thus,
   increasing melatonergic response in the subject's body.
 5          In yet another example, a light source 30 may be configured to moderate the
   level of one or more monoamines within the body of a subject by selectively exposing
   the subject to light that may increase levels of one or more monoamines (while
   possibly decreasing levels of one or more other monoamines in the subject's body)
   within the subject's body or to light that may decrease levels of one or more
10 monoamines within the subject's body (while possibly increasing or balancing levels
   of one or more other monoamines in the subject's body).
            A light-emission apparatus 10 may include a light source 30 that enables the
   early detection of one or more motor-related neurological conditions. As noted above,
   ocular exposure of a subject to amber to red wavelengths of light (e.g., more
15 than 570 nm to 650 nm, more than 570 nm to 750 nm etc.) may cause a subject who is
   predisposed to a motor-related neurological condition or who suffers from, but does
   not yet clearly exhibit symptoms of, a motor-related neurological condition to exhibit
   symptoms of that condition. By emitting above-ambient levels of such light, a light
   source 30 may cause one or more symptoms of a motor-related neurological condition
20 in such a subject to emerge. Thus, a light-emission apparatus 10 of the present
   invention may include a light source 30 that may enable early diagnosis of a
   motor-related neurological condition to which a subject is predisposed or a
   motor-related neurological condition from which the subject already suffers without
   otherwise exhibiting clear symptoms.
25          The light source 30 of a light-emission apparatus 10 that incorporates
   teachings of the present invention may be configured to emit one or more
   wavelengths of light that may stimulate mitochondrial repair. By stimulating retinal
   repair, it is currently believed that the wavelength or wavelengths of light emitted by a
   light-emission apparatus 10 of the present invention may repair damaged retinal cells
30 and/or damaged neurons. It is currently believed that repairing damaged retinal cells
   may at least partially prevent and/or reverse motor-related neurological conditions. It
   is also currently believed that repairing damaged neurons, such as the neurons of the
   substantia nigra, may at least partially reverse motor-related neurological conditions.
   In some embodiments, such a light source 30 may be configured to emit light having

                                               -17
   wavelengths of more than 650 nm, which may include deep red (visible) light and
   some infrared radiation (e.g., wavelengths of infrared radiation of about 1,400 nm or
   less, of about 900 nm or less, etc.).
            A light-emission apparatus 10 of the present invention may include a light
 5 source 30 that only emits light that will provide a single result (e.g., one of the
   foregoing functions, etc.). Alternatively, the light source 30 may be configured with
   selectivity that enables a user to choose a desired function from a plurality of
   functions (e.g., any combination of the functions described above, etc.).
            In embodiments where the light-emission apparatus 10 is configured to
10 provide a single result, the light source 30 may be configured to emit sufficient levels
   of one or more wavelengths of light that may achieve the desired result. These
   wavelengths of light are referred to herein as "desirable wavelengths." In addition, the
   light source 30 may be configured not to emit above-ambient levels of any
   wavelengths of light that may counteract the desired result (i.e., the light source 30
15 may emit ambient levels of such wavelengths or below-ambient levels of such
   wavelengths), which wavelengths of light are referred to herein as "undesirable
   wavelengths." In some embodiments, the only wavelengths of light that may be
    emitted by the light source 30 at above-ambient levels are desirable wavelengths. In
    other embodiments, the light source 30 may be configured to only emit desirable
20  wavelengths of light.
            The light emission characteristics of the light source 30 may be defined by the
    light emission element(s) 32 of the light source 30. A variety of embodiments of light
    emission elements 32 that emit one or more relatively narrow bandwidths of light may
    be used in the light source 30 of a light-emission apparatus that incorporates teachings
25  of the present invention. Without limiting the scope of the present invention, the light
    emission elements 32 may comprise light emitting diodes (LEDs). LEDs may be
    configured to emit predefined narrow bandwidths of light, including a variety of
    desirable wavelengths. LEDs may also be configured to not emit undesirable
    wavelengths of light, to emit undesirable wavelengths of light at below-ambient
30  levels, or to emit undesirable wavelengths of light at levels that do not exceed ambient
    levels of such wavelengths.
             Alternatively, the light emission element(s) 32 may emit desirable
    wavelengths of light along with light of one or more other wavelengths. Such a light
    emission element 32 is referred to in the art as a "polychromatic light source." The

                                              -18
   other wavelengths of light emitted by the light emission element(s) 32 may include
   undesirable wavelengths, or they may consist of innocuous and/or other helpful
   wavelengths of light. In embodiments where the light emission element(s) 32
   generate(s) light of one or more undesirable wavelengths at undesirably high levels
 5 (e.g., any emission of such wavelengths, ambient levels of such wavelengths,
   above-ambient levels of such wavelengths, etc.), the light source 30 may include one
   or more filters 34 to attenuate the emission of the one or more undesirable
   wavelengths from the light-emission apparatus 10. As known in the art, filters 34 may
   be selected on the basis of the wavelengths of light they attenuate.
10          One or more filters 34 may also be used in conjunction with a light source 30
   that generates one or more narrow bandwidths of light.
            Some embodiments of light-emission apparatuses 10 that incorporate
   teachings of the present invention are configured to be used for multiple functions
   (e.g., any combination of the above-described functions, etc.). The light source 30 of
15 such a light-emission apparatus 10 may be configured to enable a user to select a
   desired function from a plurality of functions.
            As a non-limiting example, a light-emission apparatus 10 may include a light
   source 30 with two or more sets 33a, 33b, etc., of light emission elements 32, as
   shown in FIG. 2A. Each set 33a, 33b, etc., may include light emission
20 elements 32a, 32b, etc., that perform a different function from the light emission
   elements 32a, 32b, etc., (collectively, "light emission elements 32") of every other
   set 33a, 33b, etc. In the illustrated embodiment, the light emission elements 32 may be
   organized over an emission surface 31 of the light source 30 in an array, with light
   emission elements 32a, 32b, etc., from different sets 33a, 33b, etc., respectively,
25 interspersed, or mixed, with one another. Alternatively, as illustrated by FIG. 2B, the
   light emission elements 32 may be organized in alternating rows or columns, with
   each row or column consisting of or primarily comprising light emission
   elements 32a, 32b, etc., of a single type. As another alternative, each different type of
   light emission elements 32a, 32b, etc., may be grouped together, as depicted by
30 FIG. 2C.
            In some embodiments, one set 33a of light emission elements 32a may be
   configured to address a motor-related neurological condition or one or more
   symptoms of such a condition. Another set 33b of light emission elements 32b may be
   configured to facilitate diagnosis of a motor-related neurological condition. Another

                                               -19
   optional set 33c of light emission elements 32c may be configured to repair cellular
   damage (e.g., mitochondrial damage, etc.) to retinal cells and/or neurons that may
   cause the motor-related neurological condition. In a specific embodiment, a light
   source 30 may be configured to emit sufficient levels of light that will address a
 5 motor-related neurological condition (e.g., 490 nm to 570 nm, 520 mn to 570 nm,
   etc.) and light that will repair cellular damage (e.g. 650 mn or greater, etc.), while
   emitting insufficient levels of light that will exacerbate a symptom of a motor-related
   neurological condition (e.g., greater than 570 nm to less than 650 nm, etc.).
             As another example, a light-emission apparatus 10 may be configured to
10 moderate levels ofeone or more monoamines in the body of a subject. Such a
   light-emission apparatus 10 may include a light source 30 with one set 33a of light
   emission elements 32a that emit light that may treat a motor-related neurological
   condition or its symptoms, such as by stimulating a dopaminergic response by a
   subject's body (e.g., cause a decrease in melatonin levels or melatonergic activity
15 (e.g., by stimulating the body of a subject to suppress or delay the production of
   melatonin and/or increase serotonin production, etc.); cause 'an increase in dopamine
   levels (e.g., by stimulating the subject's body to increase dopamine production, etc.);
   etc.) and another set 33b of light emission elements 32b that may exacerbate a
   motor-related neurological condition or its symptoms (e.g., cause an increase in
20  melatonin levels or melatonergic activity, or diminishing serotonergic activity, etc.,
    (e.g., by stimulating the body of the subject to produce more melatonin and/or reduce
    serotonin, etc.); cause a decrease in dopamine levels (e.g., by stimulating the body of
    the subject to cease or slow down dopamine production, etc.); etc.).
             The light-emission apparatus 10 may perform different functions at discrete
25  points in time (e.g., diagnose a motor-related neurological condition/address a
    motor-related neurological condition or its symptoms; elicit a neurological response;
    elicit a neuroendocrine responss; increase or decrease levels of certain
    neurochemicals, such as monoamines; etc.). Alternatively, at least portions of the
    perfonnance of two or more functions by the light-emission apparatus 10 may be
30  effected simultaneously (e.g., address a motor-related neurological condition/promote
    cellular repair; etc.).
             The manner in which different functions are to be performed by such a light
     source 30 may be controlled with a processing element 36, such as a microcontroller,
     of a type known in the art. The processing element 36 of the light source 30 may be

                                               -20
   pre-programmed to perform a set of defined functions. In some embodiments,
   parameters of the defined functions (e.g., duration of operation; intensity, photon
   density and/or irradiance; etc.) may be defined by programming of the processing
   element 36. In other embodiments, the processing element 36 may be programmed
 5 with one or more parameters (e.g., duration of operation; intensity, photon density
   and/or irradiance; wavelength(s) of light emitted; etc.) that control the manner in
   which light is emitted by the light source 30 and, thus, the function to be performed
   by the light-emission apparatus 10. In some embodiments, the processing element 36
   and the light source 30 may be configured in a manner that enables a light-emission
10 apparatus 10 of the present invention to emit different spectra based on a number of
   different factors. As a non-limiting example, the processing element 36 and the light
   source 30 of a light emission apparatus 10 may be configured to cause the
   light-emission apparatus 10 to emit different intensities of different wavelengths of
   light at different times during a day. A specific embodiment of such a light-emission
15  apparatus 10 may be configured to counteract the effects of natural light at different
    times of the day (e.g., to generate and emit blue-green and/or green light at
   increasingly greater intensities as the time of day progresses from afternoon to
    evening; to generate and emit decreasingly lesser intensities of amber, orange and red
    light as the time of day progresses from afternoon to evening; etc.). As another
20  example, the processing element 36 and the light source 30 of a light-emission
    apparatus 10 may be configured to cause the light-emission apparatus 10 to emit
    different spectra based upon the particular symptom(s) experienced by a subject
    and/or the severity of each symptom.
             Turning now to FIG. 3, an embodiment of light-emission apparatus 10 that
25  includes a light source 30 that generates polychromatic light is depicted. In some
    embodiments, the polychromatic light may comprise so-called "white" light emitted
    by one or more light emission elements 32. In other embodiments, light of a plurality
    of different colors simultaneously emitted by a plurality of differently configured light
    emission elements 32 may blend to provide the polychromatic light. In any event, the
30  polychromatic light emitted by the light source 30 includes various wavelengths
     and/or bandwidths that will perform a plurality of desired functions.
             As those of ordinary skill in the art understand, the specific characteristics of
    polychromatic light (e.g., the wavelengths of light included in polychromatic light, the
    wavelengths at which relative intensity peaks of certain colors of light are centered,

                                                -21
   etc.) depend upon the source(s) (e.g., the light emission elements 32, etc.) of that
   polychromatic light. These specific characteristics of polychromatic light from
   various sources may be referred to as the "signature" of the polychromatic light.
            The signature of the polychromatic light emitted by the light source 30 of a
 5 light-emission apparatus 10 may at least partially define the function or functions that
   the light-emission apparatus 10 is capable of performing. As an example, a
   light-emission apparatus 10 that includes a light source 30 that emits polychromatic
   light with peaks of blue, blue-green and/or green light (i.e., the desirable wavelengths
   in this example) may be useful for addressing a motor-related neurological condition,
10 for addressing a motor-related neurological condition or its symptoms, or for
   stimulating a dopaminergic response by the subject, which may cause changes in
   levels of one or more monoarnines within a subject's body. This is particularly true
    where the magnitude of a peak of one or more desirable wavelengths exceeds the
    magnitude of a peak of any undesirable wavelength, or color, of light (e.g., amber,
15  orange or red light) that may counteract the effectiveness of the desirable
    wavelength(s) (e.g., blue, blue-green and/or green light), and especially where the
    relative magnitudes of the peaks of desirable and undesirable wavelengths enables the
    polychromatic light to be delivered in such a way that desirable wavelengths of light
    are provided at above-ambient levels while undesirable wavelengths of light are
20  provided at ambient levels or below-ambient levels. In some embodiments, the light
    source 30 of a light-emission apparatus 10 of the present invention may be configured
    to emit unfiltered polychromatic light.
             The function or functions that are to be performed by a light source 30 with
    light emission elements 32 that emit polychromatic light may also be defined by
25  controlling the wavelength(s) and/or bandwidth(s) of light emitted by the light
     source 30. Thus, the light source 30 of a light-emission apparatus 10 of the present
     invention may include one or more filters 34 that at least partially block, or attenuate,
     any wavelength(s) of light that may counteract the desired function(s), while allowing
     for the transmission of therapeutic levels of certain desirable wavelengths and
30   amounts (e.g., intensities, irradiances, etc.) of light and, thus, the emission of such
     desirable wavelengths of light from the light source 30. The use of different filters 34
     may enable the light-emission apparatus 10 to perform different functions.
             With renewed reference to FIG. 1, in addition to a light source 30, a
     light-emission apparatus 10 of the present invention may include a housing 20. The

                                                -22
   housing 20 carries the light source 30. In addition, the housing 20 may carry one or
   more other components of the light-emission apparatus 10, including, but not limited
   to, controls for operating the light source 30 and a power supply 50. A light-emission
   apparatus 10 of the present invention may also include any of a variety of other
 5 features (e.g., a light transmission lens, features for diffusing the emitted light,
   features for focusing the emitted light, features for orienting the housing 20, etc.) that
   may provide it with desired functionality.
            The housing 20 of a light-emission apparatus 10 that incorporates teachings of
   the present invention may have any suitable configuration. In embodiments where the
10 light-emission apparatus 10 is configured to deliver light-emission in controlled
   conditions (e.g., in a research facility, in a medical clinic, etc.) or is intended for
   repeated use in substantially the same location, the housing 20 may be relatively large
   (e.g., so as to accommodate a relatively large light source 30, etc.). Due to its size,
   such a light-emission apparatus 10 may lack portability. Accordingly, the power
15  supply 50 of such a light-emission apparatus 10 may comprise components that
   enable the light-emission apparatus 10 to operate under AC power, in a manner
   known in the art.
             In other embodiments, a more portable light-emission apparatus 10 may be
    desirable. The housing 20 of the light-emission apparatus 10 may be configured to, at
20  least in part, impart the light-emission apparatus 10 with portability and, in some
    embodiments, enable the light-emission apparatus 10 to perform its desired
    function(s) as it is held by a user's hand. In various embodiments, such a housing 20
    may be readily transportable, occupy minimal space during transportation and/or
    storage and be configured to enable the light-emission apparatus 10 to be used in a
25  variety of setting or under a variety of circumstances. In addition to including a small
    housing 20, a portable light-emission apparatus 10 may include a correspondingly
    small, even lightweight, light source 30. In some embodiments, the power supply 50
    of a portable light-emission apparatus 10 may include one or more batteries, further
    imparting the light-emission apparatus 10 with portability. Portable embodiments of
30  light emission apparatuses 10 of the present invention may be configured to be
    positioned on a surface (e.g., a tabletop, the subject's lap, etc.), to be worn by the
    subject receiving light therapy (e.g., head-mountable to direct light to the subject's
    eyes from above (e.g., like a visor or hat, etc.), from below and/or around the

                                                   -23
   periphery of the subject's eyes (e.g., like glasses, etc.); etc.) or have any other suitable
   configuration.
            In some embodiments, a light-emission apparatus 10 may include a processing
   element (e.g., a microprocessor, a microcontroller, etc.) and a light source 30 than that
 5 causes light it
            In use, a light-emission apparatus 10 of the present invention may be
   configured to direct light toward the eyes of a subject and, thus, to provide ocular
   light therapy. In some embodiments, the subject's eyes may be closed while ocular
   light therapy is provided. In other embodiments, a subject may open his or her eyes as
10 ocular light therapy is provided. In further embodiments, desired ocular light therapy
   may be provided regardless of whether the subject's eyes are open or closed.
            Turning now to FIGs. 4 through 6, various embodiments of light therapy
   apparatuses that employ filters are illustrated. FIG. 4 illustrates an embodiment of a
   filter 70 that is configured to be positioned over a standard light source, such as a light
15 bulb 72 for limiting wavelengths of light that are emitted beyond the light source 72.
   FIG. 5 depicts an embodiment of filter 80 that is configured to be placed over a
   subject's eyes to limit the wavelengths or amounts of various wavelengths of light
   (e.g., natural light, artificial light, etc.) to which the subject's eyes are exposed; for
   example, in the form of a lens or a pair of lenses. FIG. 6 shows an embodiment of
20 filter 90 that comprises window tinting for limiting wavelengths of light (e.g., natural
   light, artificial light, etc.) to which a subject may be exposed.
             Each filter 70, 80, 90 may be configured to tailor exposure of a subject to
    certain wavelengths of light and/or to certain amounts of certain wavelengths of light.
   Without limitation, a filter 70, 80, 90 may be tailored to enable the subject to be
25  exposed to one or more therapeutic, diagnostic or restorative wavelengths of light.
    The filter 70, 80, 90 may be configured in such a way that the subject is exposed to
    one or more above-ambient amounts of some wavelengths of light and ambient or
    below-ambient amounts of one or more other wavelengths of light, as disclosed
    previously herein.
30           In a more specific embodiment, a filter 70, 80, 90 may be used to reduce the
    amounts of visible light having wavelengths above 570 nm, or at least in the range
    of 575 nm to 640 nm, to below-ambient levels. A filter that reduces wavelengths
    above 570 nm to below-ambient levels may allow ambient or above-ambient amounts
    of light of one or more wavelengths from 490 nm to 570 nm or from 520 nm

                                              -24
   to 570 nm to pass therethrough. In some embodiments, visible light having
   wavelengths below 520 nm may also be filtered, and may restrict ocular light therapy
   to ambient or above-ambient amounts of one or more wavelengths of 520 nm
   to 570 nm. Non-limiting examples of such a filter include those available from LEE
 5 Filters of Hampshire, UK; those available from GAM Products, Inc. of Los Angeles,
   California; and those available from Cotech Sensitising Ltd. of Tedegra, Gwent,
   South Wales, UK.
           Although the foregoing description contains many specifics, these should not
10 be construed as limiting the scope of the invention or of any of the appended claims,
   but merely as providing information pertinent to some specific embodiments that may
   fall within the scope of one or more of the appended claims. Other embodiments of
   the invention may also be devised which lie within the scope of one or more of the
   appended claims. The scope of each claim is, therefore, limited only by the language
15 recited therein and the legal equivalents to the elements recited thereby. All
   combinations, additions, deletions and modifications, as disclosed herein, that fall
   within the meaning and scopes of the claims are to be embraced thereby.

                                                   -25
         CLAIMS
         1.      A system for use with a subject suffering from a motor-related neurological
condition, comprising:
at least one light source capable of emitting an above-ambient intensity of at least one first
         bandwidth of visible light including an intensity peak having a wavelength in a range of
         460 nm to 570 nm, a majority of light emitted by the at least one light source comprising
         wavelengths of 460 nm to 570 nm, the range of 520 nm to 570 nm having a collective
         irradiance of 71 ptW/cm   2
                                     or more.
         2.      A system for use with a subject suffering from a motor-related neurological
condition, comprising:
at least one light source capable of emitting an above-ambient intensity of at least one first
         bandwidth of visible light including an intensity peak at a wavelength that treats a
         motor-related neurological condition or a symptom of the motor-related neurological
         condition, the at least one intensity peak, when ocularly administered to a subject, having
         a collective irradiance of 71 pW/cm 2 or more, the at least one light source emitting a
         below-ambient intensity of at least one second bandwidth of visible light, the second
         bandwidth of visible light including an intensity peak at at least one wavelength capable
         of exacerbating at least one symptom of the. at least one motor-related neurological
         condition, the intensity of the at least one second bandwidth being insufficient to
         exacerbate the at least one symptom of the at least one motor-related neurological
         condition.
         3.      The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one first bandwidth of visible light
comprises at least one of a blue-green wavelength of visible light and a green wavelength of
visible light.
         4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one light source is capable of emitting
light with the intensity peak having a wavelength in a range of 490 nm to 570 nm.

                                                    -26
         5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one light source is not configured to
emit light outside of the range of 460 nm to 570 nm.
         6.      The system of claim I or claim 2, wherein the at least one light source includes:
at least one light source that generates the intensity peak; and
at least one filter for limiting ocular exposure of a subject to extraneous wavelengths of visible
         light generated by the at least one light source that are outside of the range of 460 nm
         to 570 nm.
         7.      The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one filter limits passage of the
extraneous wavelengths of visible light therethrough to ambient or below-ambient amounts.
         8.      The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one filter prevents passage of the
extraneous wavelengths of visible light therethrough.
         9.      The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one filter limits an intensity of the
extraneous wavelengths of visible light emitted beyond the at least one light source to a subject
in such a way that the intensity of the extraneous wavelengths of visible light are less than an
intensity of visible light in the range of 460 nm to 570 nm.
          10.    The system of claim 6, wherein:
the at least one light source emits visible light having an intensity peak at at least one wavelength
         capable of exacerbating at least one symptom of the at least one motor-related
         neurological condition, the at least one wavelength being above 570 nm; and
the at least one filter limits an intensity of the intensity peak at the at least one wavelength.
          11.     The system of claim 6, wherein the light source comprises a source of white light.
          12.     The system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the at least one light source is also
configured to emit visible light including an intensity peak at a wavelength of above 570 nm
capable of exacerbating at least one symptom of the at least one motor-related neurological

                                                 -27
condition at an intensity sufficient to exacerbate the at least one symptom of at least one
motor-related neurological condition.
        13.     The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one light source, when emitting the
intensity peak at the wavelength of above 570 nm capable of exacerbating the at least one
symptom of the at least one motor-related neurological condition, is configured to emit an
insufficient intensity of the at least one peak having the wavelength in the range of 460 nm
to 570 nm.
         14.    The system of claim 12, further comprising:
a control element for selectively causing the at least one light source to emit only one of the at
        least one intensity peak at the wavelength in the range of 460 nm to 570 nm and the
        intensity peak at the wavelength of above 570 nm capable of exacerbating at least one
        symptom of the motor-related neurological condition.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
