Abstract
A security element formed on a substrate having a printing side and a viewing side is
provided, the security element including: a first image portion provided on the printing
side of the substrate, the first image portion including one or more micro-image
elements; a second image portion provided on the printing side and/or the viewing
side of the substrate; and a plurality of focussing elements disposed on or in the
viewing side of the substrate for observing the one or more micro-image elements;
wherein the first image portion and the second image portion are integrated into at
least one distinguishable security element when observed from the viewing side of the
substrate.

                       3/9
                200                        200
202                                F-
                                  E1     a
                           A                         A_________
        Figure 2E                  Figure 2F
                    200
                              224
                                               222
                                                   -216
                                           218     206
    206
              208             202
        204
                    Figure 2G

                                                1
                        MICRO-IMAGERY DESIGN INTEGRATION
Technical Field
[1]         The present invention relates to improved methods for producing a security
feature and a security document including a security element formed on a substrate.
Background of Invention
[2]         Security devices are applied to security documents or similar articles, such
as identity cards, passports, credit cards, bank notes, cheques and the like and may
take the form of diffraction gratings and similar optically detectable microstructures.
Such security devices are difficult to falsify or modify, and are easily damaged or
destroyed by any attempts to tamper with the document. Some of these security
devices include focussing elements, such as micro lenses, which act to sample and
magnify image elements and project imagery which is observable to a user for
authentication purposes.
[3]         For example, optically variable imagery security features may be achieved
by applying micro-image elements underneath an array of lenticular lenses, usually in
their focal plane, or substantially close to it. The micro-image elements are typically
applied to the substrate using rotary print methods such as flexo-printing, offset
printing or gravure printing. The micro lenses used in security documents, such as
bank notes, must be very small in order to maintain the desired thinness of the
document, and maintain a small focal length, i.e. to enable the micro lenses to focus
on micro-imagery deployed within their focal plane.
[4]         A disadvantage of these printing methods is that portions of the image
elements may suffer from printing defects such as feathering, which is characterised
by irregularities in the ink distribution, particularly at the edges of the printed area,
making the edges appear ragged or "feathered." Feathering is a distortion typically
associated with rotary printing processes such as gravure, and may be caused by one
or more of a number of factors. For example, more of the ink drying than was
expected on the printing drum before it is applied to a printing surface, e.g. the
substrate, by the gravure cells not taking up the ink as expected, or the ink not being

                                               2
transferred from the gravure cells to the printing surface as expected. Typically, such
distortions will affect the leading edge of the image element.
[5]          It would be desirable to provide a method for producing a complex micro
optic device which is difficult to counterfeit and at the same can be produced whilst
minimising print distortions due to feathering and the like.
[6]          A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known
or that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at
the priority date of any of the claims
Summary of Invention
[7]          According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
security element formed on a substrate having a printing side and a viewing side, the
security element including a first image portion provided on the printing side of the
substrate, the first image portion including one or more micro-image elements; a
second image portion provided on the printing side and/or the viewing side of the
substrate; and a plurality of focussing elements disposed on or in the viewing side of
the substrate for observing the one or more micro-image elements; wherein the first
image portion and the second image portion are integrated into at least one
distinguishable security element when observed from the viewing side of the
substrate.
[8]          The first image portion includes one or more micro-image elements, whilst
in certain embodiments; the second image portion includes at least one opacifying
element and/or at least one design element. An opacifying element may comprise a
contiguous block of an opacifying layer, generally ink, applied to the substrate. A
design element may comprise a portion of ink provided on the substrate such that it is
discernible as an image or a graphic.
[9]          The first and second image portions are preferably printed in a first colour.

                                               3
[10]         In some embodiments, the second image portion is provided on the
printing side of the substrate and at least part of the second image portion is printed
over at least part of the first image portion.
[11]         At least part of the first image portion may be provided in a window being a
transparent or translucent area in the security document compared to the
substantially opaque region to which printing is applied.
[12]         In other embodiments, the second image portion is provided on the printing
side of the substrate and the second image portion is provided substantially adjacent
to the first image portion. The second image portion may be printed before the first
image portion.
[13]         At least one of the first image portion or the second image portion may be
overprinted with a second colour.
[14]         The first image portion and the second image portion may be provided on
the substrate such that they overlap in at least one region. A tonal gradient may be
applied to the region in which the first image portion and the second image portion
overlap.
[15]         In some embodiments, the first image portion and the second image
portion form a first image layer and the security element further includes a second
image layer including a third image portion and a fourth image portion, wherein the
third image portion includes one or more micro-image elements.
[16]         The third image portion and the fourth image portion may be integrated into
at least one second distinguishable security element when observed from the viewing
side of the substrate.
[17]         In a particular form of the invention, the fourth image portion includes at
least one opacifying element and/or at least one design element.
[18]         In some embodiments, the third and fourth image portions may be printed
in a second colour.

                                              4
[19]        At least part of the fourth image portion may be printed over at least part of
the third image portion.
[20]        In some embodiments, at least part of the third image portion is provided in
a window.
[21]        In a particular form of the invention, the fourth image portion is provided
substantially adjacent to the third image portion.
[22]        The fourth image portion may be printed before the third image portion.
[23]        At least one of the third image portion or the fourth image portion may be
overprinted with a third colour.
[24]        In some embodiments, the third image portion and the fourth image portion
are provided on the substrate such that they overlap in at least one region. A tonal
gradient may be applied to the region in which the third image portion and the fourth
image portion overlap.
[25]        In a particular form of the invention, the first image portion, the second
image portion, the third image portion and the fourth image portion are integrated into
at least one third distinguishable security element when observed from the viewing
side of the substrate.
[26]        In some embodiments, the first and second colours are contrasting.
[27]        In other embodiments, the first, second and third colours are contrasting.
[28]        In certain embodiments of the invention, the micro-image elements when
viewed from the viewing side through the plurality of focussing elements, implement
one or more of a contrast switch; an image flip; an animation; a magnified moir6
image; an integral image; or an interlaced image.
[29]        In certain embodiments, the plurality of focusing elements includes micro
lenses. The micro lenses may be arranged in a one dimensional or a two dimensional
array.

                                              5
[30]          In some forms of the invention, the first image portion, the second image
portion, the third image portion and the fourth image portion are printed by the same
tool. That is, the opacifying elements and design elements may be printed using the
same cylinder that is used to print the micro-image elements. This has the benefit of
reducing tooling costs.
Definitions
Security Document or Token
[31]          As used herein the term security document includes all types of documents
and tokens of value and identification documents including, but not limited to the
following: items of currency such as banknotes and coins, credit cards, cheques,
passports, identity cards, securities and share certificates, driver's licenses, deeds of
title, travel documents such as airline and train tickets, entrance cards and tickets,
birth, death and marriage certificates, and academic transcripts.
[32]          The invention is particularly, but not exclusively, applicable to security
documents such as banknotes or identification documents such as identity cards or
passports formed from a substrate to which one or more layers of printing are applied.
The diffraction gratings and optically variable devices described herein may also have
application in other products, such as packaging.
Substrate
[33]          As used herein, the term substrate refers to the base material from which
the security document or token is formed. The base material may be paper or other
fibrous material such as cellulose; a plastic or polymeric material including but not
limited to polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE),           polycarbonate (PC),    polyvinyl
chloride (PVC), polyethylene terephthalate (PET); or a composite material of two or
more materials, such as a laminate of paper and at least one plastic material, or of
two or more polymeric materials.
[34]          The use of plastic or polymeric materials in the manufacture of security
documents pioneered in Australia has been very successful because polymeric
banknotes are more durable than their paper counterparts and can also incorporate

                                            6
new security devices and features. One particularly successful security feature in
polymeric banknotes produced for Australia and other countries has been a
transparent area or "window".
Transparent Windows and Half Windows
[35]       As used herein the term window refers to a transparent or translucent area
in the security document compared to the substantially opaque region to which
printing is applied. The window may be fully transparent so that it allows the
transmission of light substantially unaffected, or it may be partly transparent or
translucent partially allowing the transmission of light but without allowing objects to
be seen clearly through the window area.
[36]       A window area may be formed in a polymeric security document which has
at least one layer of transparent polymeric material and one or more opacifying layers
applied to at least one side of a transparent polymeric substrate, by omitting at least
one opacifying layer in the region forming the window area. If opacifying layers are
applied to both sides of a transparent substrate a fully transparent window may be
formed by omitting the opacifying layers on both sides of the transparent substrate in
the window area.
[37]       A partly transparent or translucent area, hereinafter referred to as a "half
window," may be formed in a polymeric security document which has opacifying
layers on both sides by omitting the opacifying layers on one side only of the security
document in the window area so that the "half-window" is not fully transparent, but
allows some light to pass through without allowing objects to be viewed clearly
through the half-window.
[38]       Alternatively, it is possible for the substrates to be formed from an
substantially opaque material, such as paper or fibrous material, with an insert of
transparent plastics material inserted into a cut-out, or recess in the paper or fibrous
substrate to form a transparent window or a translucent half-window area.

                                            7
Opacifying Layers
[39]        One or more opacifying layers may be applied to a transparent substrate to
increase the opacity of the security document. An opacifying layer is such that LT<LO
where LO is the amount of light incident on the document, and LT is the amount of
light transmitted through the document. An opacifying layer may comprise any one or
more of a variety of opacifying coatings. For example, the opacifying coatings may
comprise a pigment, such as titanium dioxide, dispersed within a binder or carrier of
heat-activated    cross-linkable  polymeric   material. Alternatively, a substrate of
transparent plastic material could be sandwiched between opacifying layers of paper
or other partially or substantially opaque material to which indicia may be
subsequently printed or otherwise applied.
Security Device or Feature
[40]        As used herein the term security device or feature includes any one of a
large number of security devices, elements or features intended to protect the security
document or token from counterfeiting, copying, alteration or tampering. Security
devices or features may be provided in or on the substrate of the security document
or in or on one or more layers applied to the base substrate, and may take a wide
variety of forms, such as security threads embedded in layers of the security
document; security inks such as fluorescent, luminescent and phosphorescent inks,
metallic inks,    iridescent inks, photochromic, thermochromic,       hydrochromic or
piezochromic inks; printed and embossed features, including relief structures;
interference layers; liquid crystal devices; lenses and lenticular structures; optically
variable devices (OVDs) such as diffractive devices including diffraction gratings,
holograms and diffractive optical elements (DOEs).
Brief Description of Drawings
[41]        Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings. It is to be understood that the embodiments are given by
way of illustration only and the invention is not limited by this illustration. In the
drawings:
[42]        Figure 1 shows a security element formed on a substrate.

                                              8
[43]        Figure 2A shows a security element according to one embodiment.
[44]        Figure 2B shows the security element of Figure 2A broken down into
printed and non-printed areas.
[45]        Figure 2C shows the security element of Figure 2A observed from the
viewing side of the substrate at a first viewing angle.
[46]        Figure 2D shows the security element of Figure 2A observed from the
viewing side of the substrate at a second viewing angle.
[47]        Figure 2E shows the security element of Figure 2A observed from the
printing side of the substrate.
[48]        Figures 2F and 2G show a cross sectional view of the security element of
Figure 2A.
[49]        Figure 3A shows a security element according to another embodiment.
[50]        Figure 3B shows the opacifying imagery of the security element of Figure
3A.
[51]        Figure 3C shows the micro-imagery of the security element of Figure 3A.
[52]        Figure 3D shows the design imagery in a first image layer of the security
element of Figure 3A.
[53]        Figure 3E shows the design imagery in a second image layer of the
security element of Figure 3A.
[54]        Figure 3F shows the design imagery in a third image layer of the security
element of Figure 3A.
[55]        Figure 3G shows the security element of Figure 3A observed from the
viewing side of the substrate at a first viewing angle.
[56]        Figure 3H shows the security element of Figure 3A observed from the
viewing side of the substrate at a second viewing angle.

                                               9
[57]        Figure 3J shows the security element of Figure 3A observed from the
printing side of the substrate in reflected light.
[58]        Figures 3K and 3L show a first cross sectional view of the security element
of Figure 3A.
[59]        Figures 3M and 3N show a second cross sectional view of the security
element of Figure 3A.
[60]        Figure 4A shows a security element according to yet another embodiment.
[61]        Figure 4B shows the position of cross sections AA shown in Figure 4C and
BB shown in Figure 4D.
[62]        Figure 4C shows a first cross-sectional view AA of the security element of
Figure 4A.
[63]        Figure 4D shows a second cross-sectional view BB of the security element
of Figure 4A.
Detailed Description
[64]        Referring firstly to Figure 1, there is shown a security element 102 formed
on or in a substrate 100. In the illustrated embodiment, the substrate 100 together
with the security element 102 form a security document, such as for example, a bank
note. The security element 102 may be formed as a separate element to the substrate
100, allowing it to be applied to the substrate, or other security article, or may be
formed integrally therewith.
[65]        The substrate 100 has a viewing side 104 and an opposing printing side
106. The viewing side 04 of the substrate 100 is the side from which the security
element 102 will preferentially be observed. The printing side 106 may be
substantially observable through the substrate 100 from the viewing side 104. For
example, an opacifying layer may be applied to the viewing side 104 except in one or
more specified areas to create a window or half-window on the substrate 100.
Generally, some types image elements forming the security element 102 will be
observable from both the viewing side 104 and the printing side 106 of the substrate

                                             10
100. However, other types of image elements, such as micro-image elements, which
are intended to be observed through a plurality of focussing elements disposed on or
in the viewing side 104 of the substrate 100, will correspondingly be best observed
from the viewing side.
[66]        In accordance with the present invention, the security element 102 includes
first and second image portions (not shown in Figure 1), each image portion being
provided on the printing side 106 of the substrate 100. The image portions are
typically applied to the substrate 100 as a layer of ink using a rotary printing process
such as gravure, offset or flexographic printing. The first image portion includes one
or more micro-image elements. Focussing elements are provided on or in the viewing
side of the substrate for observing the micro-image elements. The focussing elements
may comprise a one dimensional array or a two dimensional array of micro-lenses or
similar focussing elements. When observed from the viewing side 104, the first and
second image portions are integrated into at least one distinguishable security
element. This will be more clearly understood by reference to a series of examples
depicted in Figures 2A to 2G, Figures 3A to 3N and Figures 4A to 4D as described
below.
[67]        Referring now to Figure 2A, there is shown a security element 200
according to an embodiment of the present invention. The security element 200
includes an image layer comprising a layer of ink printed on the printing side 106 of
the substrate 100 (see Figure 1). The security element 200 includes first and second
image portions, wherein the first image portion 202 includes micro-image elements
and the second image portion 204 includes opacifying 206 and/or design layers 208.
[68]        When observed from the viewing side 104 of the substrate 100 which
includes a plurality of focusing elements for observing the micro-image elements, the
first and second image portions 202 and 204 are perceived as integral elements of a
single distinguishable security element or design. The dashed line 210 represents the
bounds or perimeter of the plurality of focussing elements that are disposed on or in
the viewing side 104 of the substrate 100. This region 210 corresponds substantially
to the extent of the first image portion 202 described with reference to Figure 2B
below. In some embodiments, the region 210, defining the extent of the lenses,

                                               11
extends beyond the extent of the first image portion, and may do so significantly, i.e.
the lens extent can optionally be larger.
[69]        The first and second image portions may be printed using the same
tooling, e.g. a rotary printing tool such as a gravure cylinder or similar. That is, the
opacifying elements and design elements may be printed using the same cylinder that
is used to print the micro-image elements. This has the benefit of reducing tooling
costs. Staggering or alternating the order in which the image elements are printed can
be employed to ameliorate printing defects such as feathering or similar undesirable
distortions. That is, in Figure 2A, a region 211 represents an area of the opacifying
element that is in close proximity to micro-image elements. Therefore, the opacifying
element is printed first to avoid print distortions.
[70]        Referring now to Figure 2B, there is shown the security element 200 of
Figure 2A broken down into printed and non-printed areas. That is, the black areas
212 in Figure 2B represent those areas of the design that are printed in white ink.
These printed areas comprise a first image portion 202 printed in white ink in a
window area of the substrate 100 to implement a black-to-white contrast switch as will
become more apparent from the subsequent Figures. A second image portion 204
comprising an opacifying element 206, in this case a contiguous swatch of ink, and a
design element 208 in this case the "Free" and "Wi" elements of the security element
200. Both the first image portion 202 and the second image portion 204 are printed in
white ink. It will be understood that in a practical implementation of the security
element 200, the first image portion 202 will not be 100% covered in ink since
unprinted gaps will exist between the micro-image elements. The areas shown in
white 214 in Figure 2B represent the unprinted or light transmissive regions of the
overall design.
[71]        It will be appreciate that in other examples, the first image portion including
micro-image elements might implement other optically variable effects such as an
image flip, an animation effect, a magnified moir6 image, an integral image or an
interlaced image.
[72]        Referring now to Figure 2C, there is shown the security element observed
from the viewing side 104 in reflected light at a first angle of observation. The areas

                                              12
represented in black 214, are those areas that reflect minimal light back to the
observer, that is, the unprinted or light transmissive regions shown in white in the
previous Figure 2B. Referring now to Figure 2D, there is shown the security element
200, with first image portion 202 observed through the focussing elements from the
viewing side 104 in reflected light at a second angle of observation. Shifting between
the first and second viewing angles enables the contrast switch of the '"Fi" element
corresponding to the first image portion 202 to be observed.
[73]        Referring now to Figure 2E, there is shown the security element 200 with
first image portion 202 observed from the reverse or printing side 106, that is, not
through the focussing elements. In this case, the micro-image elements 202 that
implement the contrast switch when viewed through the focussing elements and
moving the security element between a first and second angle of observation, appear
as a substantially uniform layer of grey. This is a consequence of the contrast switch
design implementing one line image element and one line image element gap per
lens, so that X% of the area is printed and (100-X)% is unprinted. Therefore the first
image portion 202 is perceived in a uniform grey tone as opposed to solid black. Solid
black would imply that 100% of the area was printed.
[74]        Referring now to Figure 2F there is shown the position of cross-section AA
through security element 200. Figure 2G shows a cross sectional view of the security
element 200. The security element is formed on a substrate 216 by providing a first
image portion 202 including one or more micro-image elements 218 on the printing
side of the substrate 220, and providing a second image portion 204 comprising an
opacifiying element 206 and a design element 208, on the printing side 220 and/or the
viewing side 222 of the substrate 216. Focussing elements in the form of micro lenses
224 are provided on the viewing side 222. When observed from the viewing side 222,
through the lenses 224, the first image portion 202 and second image portion 204 are
perceived as being integrated into a single distinguishable design 200, i.e. forming
respective elements of the "Free WiFi" device.
[75]        It will be understood from the foregoing examples that the present
invention provides an increased level of design integration for micro-imagery printed
using rotary printing techniques. This serves to significantly increase the complexity of

                                              13
the design and correspondingly, the amount of effort that a counterfeiter must go to, in
order to successfully replicate the security element.
[76]         Integration of the first and second image portions, i.e. the micro-image
elements and the opacifying and/or design elements, further means that they may be
printed by the same gravure cylinder, or similar. This may reduce the cost of
production, since a single cylinder can be used to print each of the image elements
featured in a single design.
[77]         Referring now to Figure 3A, there is shown a security element 300
according to another embodiment of the present invention. The security element 300
includes an image layer comprising a layer of ink printed on the printing side 106 of
the substrate 100 (see Figure 1). The security element 300 includes first and second
image portions, wherein the first image portion 302 includes micro-image elements
and the second image portion 304 includes opacifying 306 and/or design layers 308.
When observed from the viewing side 104 of the substrate 100 which includes a
plurality of focusing elements for observing the micro-image elements, the first and
second image portions 302 and 304 are perceived as integral elements of a single
distinguishable security element or design. The dashed line 310 represents the
bounds or perimeter of the plurality of focussing elements that are disposed on or in
the viewing side 104 of the substrate 100. This region 310 corresponds substantially
to the extent of the first image portion 302 described with reference to Figure 3C
below. The region 311 represents an area of the opacifying element that is in close
proximity to micro-image elements. Therefore, the opacifying element is printed first to
avoid print distortions.
[78]         Referring now to Figure 3B, there is shown the security element 300 of
Figure 3A broken down into printed and non-printed areas. That is, the black areas
306 in Figure 3B represent the opacifying elements of the design that are printed in
white ink. These opacifying areas 306 comprise part of the second image portion 304
(see Figure 3A). Referring now to Figure 3C, there is shown represented as black
areas 312, the first image portion comprising the micro-image elements of the design.
These black areas 312 are also printed in white ink and are preferably printed with the
same printing tool or roller, as the opacifying elements described with reference to
Figure 3B. However, as described with reference to Figure 2B, it will be appreciated

                                             14
that in a practical implementation of the security element 300, the first image portion
312 will not be 100% covered in ink since unprinted gaps will exist between the micro
image elements. Referring now to Figure 3D, there are represented in black, the
design elements 314, which comprise the second image portion 304 together with the
opacifying elements 306, shown in Figure 3B. In this case, the design elements 314,
spell the terms "Free Wi-Fi". These black areas are also printed in white ink and are
preferably printed with the same printing tool or roller, as the opacifying elements 306
described with reference to Figure 3B and the micro-image elements 312 described
with reference to Figure 3C.
[79]        It will be understood that the opacifying element 306, micro-image
elements 312 and design elements 314, together form a first image layer. Referring
now to Figure 3E, there is shown a further design element 316 that forms part of a
second image layer. Similarly to the first image layer described with reference to
Figures 3B to 3D, the second image layer may be comprised of third and fourth image
portions, wherein the third image portion includes further micro-image elements and
the fourth image portion includes further opacifying elements and/or design elements
316. In this case the design element 316 is printed in a further colour, e.g. blue.
Referring now to Figure 3F, there is shown yet another design element 318 which
might be printed in another contrasting colour, e.g. orange.
[80]        Referring now to Figure 3G, there is shown the security element 300
observed from the viewing side 104 in reflected light at a first angle of observation.
Due to the second image layer described with reference to Figures 3E and 3F, the
"Free Wi-Fi" devices are perceived in three contrasting colours, e.g. from top to
bottom, in orange, black and blue. Referring now to Figure 3H, there is shown the
security element 300 observed through the focussing elements from the viewing side
104 in reflected light at a second angle of observation. Shifting between the first and
second viewing angles enables the contrast switch of the central symbol (the WiFi
symbol) to be observed.
[81]        Referring now to Figure 3J, there is shown the security element 300 as
observed from the reverse or printing side 106, i.e. not through the focussing
elements. In this case, the first image layer design elements 314 (as shown in Figure
3D), will be largely obscured by the second image layer design element 316 (as

                                            15
shown in Figure 3E) and the third image layer design element 318 (as shown in
Figure 3F), that is, in those regions where the second image layer is printed over the
first image layer. Where they are not over printed with a further image layer, the
micro-image elements 302 that implement the contrast switch when viewed through
the focussing elements and moving the security element between a first and second
angle of observation, appear as a substantially uniform layer of grey as described in
relation to the embodiment described with reference to Figures 2A to 2G.
[82]        Referring now to Figure 3K, there is shown the position of cross-section AA
through security element 300. Figure 3L shows a cross sectional view of the middle
security element 300. The security element is formed on a substrate 320 by providing
a first image portion 302 including one or more micro-image elements 322 on the
printing side of the substrate 324, and providing a second image portion 304
comprising an opacifiying element 306 and a design element 308, on the printing side
324 and/or on the viewing side 326 of the substrate 320. Focussing elements in the
form of micro lenses 328 are provided on the viewing side 326 of the substrate. When
observed from the viewing side 326 of the substrate 320, through the lenses 328, the
first image portion 302 and second image portion 304 are perceived as being
integrated into a single distinguishable design 300, i.e. forming respective elements of
the three "Free WiFi" devices.
[83]        Whilst section AA passes through the middle "Free WiFi" device which has
not been overprinted with a second image layer, we refer now to Figure 3M, which
shows the position of cross-section BB through the bottom security element. Figure
3N shows a cross sectional view of the bottom security element. The security element
is formed on a substrate 320 by providing a first image portion 302 on the printing
side of the substrate 324 and a second image portion 304 on the printing side 324
and/or on the viewing side 326 of the substrate 320. Focussing elements in the form
of micro lenses 328 are provided on the viewing side 326 of the substrate.
Furthermore, the micro-image elements and the design elements are overprinted with
a second image layer or design element 330. This additional design element 330 will
tend to obscure the micro-image elements 302 and design elements 308 in the first
image layer, when observed from the printing side of the substrate as described with
reference to Figure 3J. However, when observed from the viewing side 326 of the

                                               16
substrate 320, the first image portion 302, second image portion 304 and the further
design elements comprising the second image layer, are all perceived as being
integrated into a single distinguishable design 300, i.e. forming respective elements of
the three "Free WiFi" devices, thereby forming a complex security device that is
difficult to replicate.
[84]          Moreover, such integrated security element designs enable additional
colour elements to be introduced into an optically variable image, using standard, and
therefore low cost tooling, for example, that is not suitable for printing micro-image
elements. This functionality provides significant savings in production of more
complex security elements. That is, micro-image elements have been produced in
three colours in the foregoing example, simply by over printing the micro-image
elements with a second and a third contrasting colour. A significant benefit of this
approach is that precise colour-to-colour registration is achieved automatically by
printing with a single tool.
[85]          Referring now to Figure 4A, there is shown a complex device showing a
number of gear wheels including some with animation effects, designed in
accordance with the principles of the present invention. A first image layer includes a
first image portion comprising micro-image elements consisting of two gear wheels
402, 404 printed on the printing side of a substrate as a negative image in white ink in
a full window. These micro-image elements 402, 404, when observed through
focusing elements disposed on the viewing side of the same substrate, at various
viewing angles, implement a gear wheel animation effect. The dashed line 408
represents the extremity of the region on which an array of focussing elements is
disposed on the viewing side of the substrate.
[86]          The first image layer further includes a second image portion comprising
an opacifying element 406 in the form of a solid swatch of printed white ink, i.e., the
background to the gear wheels. The second image portion additionally comprises two
design elements 410, 411 representing a further two gear wheels. The design
elements 410, 411 are printed as a halftone negative dithered binary image in white
ink. Consequently, unprinted areas will be perceived as black in reflected light.

                                             17
[87]        A second image layer comprising third and fourth image portions
completes the security element design. The third image portion comprises a second
micro-imagery layer consisting of two gear wheels 412, 413 printed on the substrate
as a positive dithered binary image in red ink in a half window. Consequently
unprinted areas will appear white in reflected light. These micro-image elements,
when observed through focusing elements disposed on the viewing side of the same
substrate, at various viewing angles, implement a gear wheel animation effect. The
dashed line 414 represents the extremity of the region on which an array of focussing
elements is disposed on the viewing side of the substrate. The opacifying element
406 in the first image layer overprints the micro-imagery in the second image layer.
That is, the second image layer is printed before the first image layer in this example.
[88]        The fourth image portion comprises further design elements consisting of
two gear wheels 415, 416 printed as a halftone positive dithered binary image in red
ink. Consequently unprinted areas will appear white in reflected light. The opacifying
element 406 in the first image layer overprints the design element in the second
image layer.
[89]        Referring now to Figure 4B, there is shown the position of cross-sections
AA and BB through security element 400. Figure 4C shows cross section AA. The
security element 400 is formed on a substrate 420 by providing a second image layer
including micro-image elements 413 and design elements 416 both printed on the
substrate 420 in red ink. Focussing elements in the form of micro lenses 422 are
provided on the viewing side 423 of the substrate.
[90]        Figure 4D shows cross section BB. The security element 400 is formed on
a substrate 420 by providing a first image layer (printed over the second image layer
in this case), comprising micro-image elements 402, an opacifiying element 406 and a
design element 411, on the substrate 420. The cross section BB also includes part of
the second image layer, i.e. design elements 415 printed in red ink.
[91]        The first and second image layers are observed together from the viewing
side of the substrate through the focussing elements in reflected light to give rise to a
single distinguishable design. In this example, the second image layer is printed in red
ink, and is printed before the first image layer, which is subsequently printed in white

                                             18
ink. The resulting security element produces optically variable effects in two colours,
integrated into a single, complex distinguishable design. The opacifying element is
white and overprints the red micro-image elements in the second image layer,
producing one white optically variable image in a full window and one red optically
variable image in a half window.
[92]        The opacifying elements include portions that are printed in close proximity
to, and prior to, micro-image elements in the first image layer. Additionally, the design
elements in the second image layer include portions that are in close proximity to, and
that are printed prior to, the micro-imagery in the second image layer. This approach
ameliorates feathering defects in micro-imagery applied in a rotary printing process.
[93]        In producing the example described by reference to Figures 4A to 4D, the
second image layer micro-image elements are printed first in a darker colour (e.g.
red), and then overprinted in a strongly contrasting light colour (e.g. white), thereby
forming a half window. This has the effect of increasing the contrast of the (in this
case red) optically variable effect, since the light colour of the overprint appears to
increase the colour strength of the micro-image elements thereby providing greater
image contrast. By comparison, in the example described by reference to Figure 3A
to 3N, the micro-image elements are printed in a light colour first, then overprinted
with a darker colour. In that case, the darker colour causes the colour of the micro
image elements to become darker, thus reducing the maximum brightness in the
resulting image, thereby reducing the image contrast.
[94]        It is an advantage of the present invention, that the counterfeit resistance
of security devices may be enhanced by increasing the complexity of security devices
through design integration as described herein. Moreover, it is possible to implement
multi-coloured optically variable effects as part of an integral design with reduced
tooling costs.
[95]        Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying
the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding
the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group
thereof.

                                            19
[96]        While the invention has been described in conjunction with a limited
number of embodiments, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many
alternative, modifications and variations in light of the foregoing description are
possible. Accordingly, the present invention is intended to embrace all such
alternative, modifications and variations as may fall within the spirit and scope of the
invention as disclosed.
[97]        The present application may be used as a basis or priority in respect of one
or more future applications and the claims of any such future application may be
directed to any one feature or combination of features that are described in the
present application. Any such future application may include one or more of the
following claims, which are given by way of example and are non-limiting in regard to
what may be claimed in any future application.

                                             20
The claims defining the invention are as follows
1.     A security element formed on a substrate having a printing side and a viewing
       side, the security element including:
               a first image portion provided on the printing side of the substrate, the
               first image portion including one or more micro-image elements;
               a second image portion provided on the printing side and/or the viewing
               side of the substrate; and
               a plurality of focussing elements disposed on or in the viewing side of
               the substrate for observing the one or more micro-image elements;
               wherein the first image portion and the second image portion are
       integrated into at least one distinguishable security element when observed
       from the viewing side of the substrate.
2.     The security element of claim 1, wherein the second image portion includes at
       least one opacifying element and/or at least one design element.
3.     The security element of claim 2, wherein the at least one opacifying element
       comprises a contiguous block of an opacifying layer and/or the at least one
       design element comprises a portion of ink deposited on the substrate so as to
       be discernible as an image or a graphic.
4.     The security element of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the second image
       portion is provided on the printing side of the substrate and at least part of the
       second image portion is printed over at least part of the first image portion.
5.     The security element of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the second image
       portion is provided on the printing side of the substrate and the second image
       portion is provided substantially adjacent to the first image portion.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
