ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions comprising an emulsion or a microemulsion for various aspects of
the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well are provided. In some embodiments, the emulsion or
the microemulsion comprises water, a solvent, and a surfactant, and optionally, one or more
additives. See Fig. 1.

WO 2014/153102                                                      PCT/US2014/029079
                phase
             inversion
               erTur\\
                   PIn
                                                       liquid
                          MN
                       E~
                                                         -- - - - -
                             Surfactant     Concntrtio
                                       figure CIcntao

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
       METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR USE IN OIL AND/OR GAS WELLS
                                           Field of Invention
             Methods and compositions comprising an emulsion or a microemulsion for use in
 5  various aspects of a life cycle of an oil and/or gas well are provided.
                                       Background of Invention
             For many years, petroleum has been recovered from subterranean reservoirs
    through the use of drilled wells and production equipment. Oil and natural gas are found
10  in, and produced from, porous and permeable subterranean formations, or reservoirs. The
    porosity and permeability of the formation determine its ability to store hydrocarbons,
    and the facility with which the hydrocarbons can be extracted from the formation.
    Generally, the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well includes drilling to form a wellbore,
    casing, cementing, stimulation, and enhanced or improved oil recovery.
15           Various aspects of the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well are designed to facilitate
    the extraction of oil and/or gas from the reservoir via the wellbore. A wide variety of
    fluids is utilized during the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well and are well known. In
    order to improve extraction of oil and/or gas, additives have been incorporated into
    various fluids utilized during the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well. The incorporation of
20  additives into fluids utilized during the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well can increase
    crude oil or formation gas, for example, by reducing capillary pressure and/or
    minimizing capillary end effects. For example, drilling fluids are utilized to carry
    cuttings and other particulates from beneath the drill bit to the surface and can function
    to reduce friction between the drill bit and the sides of the wellbore while maintaining
25  the stability of uncased sections of the borehole. In addition, the drilling fluid and the
    subsequent cementing and perforating fluids can be formulated to prevent imbibition
    and/or unwanted influxes of some formation fluids. As another example, fracturing and
    acidizing are a commonly used techniques to stimulate the production of oil and/or gas
    from reservoirs, wherein a stimulation fluid is injected into the wellbore and the
30  formation (reservoir). In a typical matrix acidizing or fracturing treatment, from 1 barrel
    per foot to several million gallons of stimulation fluid are pumped into a reservoir (e.g.,
    via the wellbore). The stimulation fluid can comprise additives to aid in the stimulation
    process, for example, proppants, scale inhibitors, friction reducers, biocides, gases such
                                                   _1 _

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
    as carbon dioxide and nitrogen, acids, slow release acids, corrosion inhibitors, buffers,
    viscosifiers, clay swelling inhibitors, oxygen scavengers, and surfactants. Later in the life
    of the well additional fluids and gases may be injected into the well to remediate
    damage, maintain pressure or contact and recover further oil.
 5          When selecting or using a fluid to be utilized during the life cycle of an oil and/or
    gas well, it is important for the fluid to comprise the right combination of additives and
    components to achieve the necessary characteristics of the specific end-use application.
    A primary goal amongst all aspects of the life cycle of a well is to optimize recovery of
    oil and/or gas from the reservoir. However, in part because the fluids utilized during the
10  life cycle of an oil and/or gas well are often utilized to perform a number of tasks
    simultaneously, achieving necessary to optimal characteristics is not always easy.
            Accordingly, it would be desirable if a wide variety of additives were available
    which could be selected to achieve the necessary characteristics and/or could be easily
    adapted. Furthermore, it is desirable that the additives provide multiple benefits and are
15  useful across multiple portions of the life cycle of the well. For example, a challenge
    often encountered is fluid recovery following injection of fracturing fluids or other fluids
    into the wellbore. Often, large quantities of injected fluids are trapped in the formation,
    for example, in the area surrounding the fracture and within the fracture itself. It is
    theorized that the trapping of the fluid is due to interfacial tension between water and
20  reservoir rock and/or capillary end effects in and around the vicinity of the face of the
    fractured rock. The presence of trapped fluids generally has a negative effect on the
    productivity of the well. While several approaches have been used to overcome this
    problem, for example, incorporation of co-solvents and/or surfactants (i.e., low surface
    tension fluids) , there is still the need for improved additives, as well as a greater
25  understanding as to how to select the additives to maximize the productivity of the well.
    The use of microemulsions has also been employed, however, selection of an appropriate
    microemulsion for a particular application remains challenging, as well as there is a
    continued need for emulsions with enhanced abilities.
            Accordingly, although a number of additives are known in the art, there is a
30  continued need for more effective additives for increasing production of oil and/or gas.
                                          Summary of Invention

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
             Methods and compositions comprising an emulsion or a microemulsion for use in
    various aspects of the life-cycle of an oil and/or gas well are provided.
             In some embodiments, a method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising injecting a fluid comprising an emulsion or
 5  microemulsion into the wellbore, wherein the emulsion or microemulsion comprises an
    aqueous phase; a surfactant; and a solvent, wherein the solvent comprises an amine of
    the formula NR R2R],                          1  2       3
                         12 wherein each of R , R , and R are the same or different and are
    alkyl, provide at least one of R , R2 , and R3 is methyl or ethyl, or optionally, wherein any
    two of R 1, R2, and R3 are joined together to form a ring; and wherein the pH of the fluid
10  is about neutral or greater.
             In some embodiments, a method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising injecting a fluid comprising an emulsion or
    microemulsion into the wellbore, wherein the emulsion or microemulsion comprises an
    aqueous phase; a surfactant; and a solvent, wherein the solvent comprises an amide of
15  the formula (C=OR4 )RR 6, wherein each of R4 , R5 , and R6 are the same or different and
    are hydrogen or alkyl, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined together to form a ring.
             In some embodiments, a method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising injecting a fluid comprising an emulsion or
    microemulsion into the wellbore, wherein the emulsion or microemulsion comprises
20  water; an alcohol; a solvent comprising a terpene; and a surfactant, wherein the
    surfactant has a structure as in Formula I:
                                                               R8
                             R 1 2 0{y>
                                                                          R10
                                                               Sn(),
             wherein each of R7 , R', R9 , R1 4, and R" are the same or different and are selected
    from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr,
25  provided at least one of R7, R, R, R1 4, and R" is -CH=CHAr; Ar is an aryl group;
     R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl; n is 1-100; and each m is independently 1 or 2.

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
             In some embodiments, a method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising injecting a fluid comprising an emulsion or
    microemulsion into the wellbore, wherein the emulsion or microemulsion comprise
    water; an alcohol; a solvent comprising a terpene; and a surfactant, wherein the
 5  surfactant has a structure as in Formula II:
                                                          R8
                                               R7                    R9
                                               O0                    R10
     wherein each of R 7 , R', R 9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, provided
    at least one of R7, R', R , R4, and R" is -CH=CHAr; Ar is an aryl group; Y- is an
10  anionic group; X- is a cationic group; n is 1-100; and each m is independently 1 or 2.
             In some embodiments, a method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising injecting a fluid comprising an emulsion or
    microemulsion into the wellbore, wherein the emulsion or microemulsion comprises
    water; an alcohol; a solvent comprising a terpene; and a surfactant, wherein the
15  surfactant has a structure as in Formula III:
                                                        R8
                                             R7                    R9
                             ZH                 n         1        R10
                                                        R11
     wherein each of R 7 , R', R 9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, provided
    at least one of R7, R', R, R1 4, and R" is -CH=CHAr; Ar is an aryl group; Zvis a cationic
20  group; n is 1-100; and each m is independently 1 or 2.
                                                  _A _

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
             In some embodiments, a method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising injecting a solution into the wellbore, wherein the
    solution comprising a fluid selected from the group consisting of a mud displacement
    fluid, a cementing fluid, a perforating fluid, a kill fluid, and EOR/IOR fluid, a stored
 5  fluid, or a stimulation fluid utilized in offshore wells or during fracture packing, and an
    emulsion or microemulsion, wherein the emulsion or the microemulsion comprises
    between about 1 wt% and 95 wt% water; between about 1 wt% and 99 wt% solvent;
    between about 0 wt% and about 50 wt% alcohol; between about 1 wt% and 90 wt%
    surfactant; between about 0 wt% and about 70 wt% freezing point depression agent; and
10  between about 0 wt% and about 70 wt% other additives.
             In some embodiments, a composition for use in an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising a fluid and an emulsion or microemulsion, wherein the
    emulsion or the microemulsion comprises water; an alcohol; a solvent comprising a
    terpene; and a surfactant in an amount between about 9 wt% and about 11 wt% versus
15  the total emulsion, wherein the surfactant has a structure as in Formula I:
                                                                R8
                                                   R {                    R9
                             R12o
                                                                             1
                                                                R"
     wherein each of R7 , R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, provided
    at least one of R7, R', R9, R1 4, and R" is -CH=CHAr; Ar is an aryl group; R12 is
20  hydrogen or alkyl; n is 1-100; and each m is independently 1 or 2.
             In some embodiments, a composition for use in an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising a fluid and an emulsion or microemulsion, wherein the
    emulsion or the microemulsion comprises water; an alcohol; a solvent comprising a
    terpene; and a surfactant in an amount between about 9 wt% and about 11 wt% versus
25  the total emulsion, wherein the surfactant has a structure as in Formula II:

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
                                                          R8
                                               R7                    R9
                                                     O    n          R10
     wherein each of R7 , R', R9 , R1 4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, provided
    at least one of R7, R', R , R4, and R" is -CH=CHAr; Ar is an aryl group; Y- is an
 5  anionic group; X- is a cationic group; n is 1-100; and each m is independently 1 or 2.
             In some embodiments, a composition for use in an oil and/or gas well having a
    wellbore is provided comprising a fluid and an emulsion or microemulsion, wherein the
    emulsion or the microemulsion comprises water; an alcohol; a solvent comprising a
    terpene; and a surfactant in an amount between about 9 wt% and about 11 wt% versus
10  the total emulsion, wherein the surfactant has a structure as in Formula III:
                                                        R8
                                             R7                    R9
                             Z                  no                 R10
                                                        R11
     wherein each of R7, R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, provided
    at least one of R7, R', R9, R4, and R" is -CH=CHAr; Ar is an aryl group; ZV is a
15  cationic group; n is 1-100; and each m is independently 1 or 2.
             Other aspects, embodiments, and features of the methods and compositions will
    become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction
    with the accompanying drawings. All patent applications and patents incorporated herein
    by reference are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the
20  present specification, including definitions, will control.

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
                                 Brief Description of the Drawings
             The accompanying drawings are not intended to be drawn to scale. For purposes
    of clarity, not every component may be labeled in every drawing. In the drawings:
             Figure 1 shows an exemplary plot for determining the phase inversion
 5  temperature of a microemulsion, according to some embodiments.
                                        Detailed Description
             Methods and compositions comprising an emulsion or a microemulsion for use in
    various aspects of the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well are provided. An emulsion or a
10  microemulsion may comprise water, a solvent, a surfactant, a co-surfactant (e.g., an
    alcohol), and optionally other components (e.g., a clay stabilizer, a freezing point
    depression agent, an acid, a salt, etc.). In some embodiments, the solvent comprises more
    than one type of solvent (e.g., a first type of solvent and a second type of solvent). In
    some embodiments, the methods and compositions relate to various aspects of the life
15  cycle of an oil and/or gas well (e.g., drilling, mud displacement, casing, cementing,
    perforating, stimulation, kill fluids, enhanced oil recovery/improved oil recovery, etc.).
    In some embodiments, an emulsion or a microemulsion is added to a fluid utilized in the
    life cycle of well thereby increasing hydrocarbon (e.g., liquid or gaseous) production of
    the well, improving recovery of the fluid and/or other fluids, and/or preventing or
20  minimizing damage to the well caused by exposure to the fluid (e.g., from imbibition).
             Additional details regarding the emulsion or microemulsions, as well as the
    applications of the emulsions or microemulsions, are described herein. For example, the
    emulsions and microemulsions described in the Section A may be utilized in any a wide
    variety of application in the life cycle of the well, as described in Section B.
25
    I.       Emulsions and Microemulsions
             In some embodiments, emulsions or microemulsion are provided. The terms
    should be understood to include emulsions or microemulsions that have a water
    continuous phase, or that have an oil continuous phase, or microemulsions that are
30  bicontinuous or multiple continuous phases of water and oil.
             As used herein, the term emulsion is given its ordinary meaning in the art and
    refers to dispersions of one immiscible liquid in another, in the form of droplets, with
                                                  -7 -

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    diameters approximately in the range of 100-1,000 nanometers. Emulsions may be
    thermodynamically unstable and/or require high shear forces to induce their formation.
            As used herein, the term microemulsion is given its ordinary meaning in the art
    and refers to dispersions of one immiscible liquid in another, in the form of droplets,
 5  with diameters approximately in the range of about between about 1 and about 1000 nm,
    or between 10 and about 1000 nanometers, or between about 10 and about 500 nm, or
    between about 10 and about 300 nm, or between about 10 and about 100 nm.
    Microemulsions are clear or transparent because they contain particles smaller than the
    wavelength of visible light. In addition, microemulsions are homogeneous
10  thermodynamically stable single phases, and form spontaneously, and thus, differ
    markedly from thermodynamically unstable emulsions, which generally depend upon
    intense mixing energy for their formation. Microemulsions may be characterized by a
    variety of advantageous properties including, by not limited to, (i) clarity, (ii) very small
    particle size, (iii) ultra-low interfacial tensions, (iv) the ability to combine properties of
15  water and oil in a single homogeneous fluid, (v) shelf life stability, and (vi) ease of
    preparation.
            In some embodiments, the microemulsions described herein are stabilized
    microemulsions that are formed by the combination of a solvent-surfactant blend with an
    appropriate oil-based or water-based carrier fluid. Generally, the microemulsion forms
20  upon simple mixing of the components without the need for high shearing generally
    required in the formation of ordinary emulsions. In some embodiments, the
    microemulsion is a thermodynamically stable system, and the droplets remain finely
    dispersed over time. In some cases, the average droplet size ranges from about 10 nm to
    about 300 nm.
25          It should be understood, that while much of the description herein focuses on
    microemulsions, this is by no means limiting, and emulsions may be employed where
    appropriate.
            In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is a single emulsion or
    microemulsion. For example, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises a single layer of
30  a surfactant. In other embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion may be a double or
    multilamellar emulsion or microemulsion. For example, the emulsion or microemulsion
    comprises two or more layers of a surfactant. In some embodiments, the emulsion or
    microemulsion comprises a single layer of surfactant surrounding a core (e.g., one or

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    more of water, oil, solvent, and/or other additives) or a multiple layers of surfactant (e.g.,
    two or more concentric layers surrounding the core). In certain embodiments, the
    emulsion or microemulsion comprises two or more immiscible cores (e.g., one or more
    of water, oil, solvent, and/or other additives which have equal or about equal affinities
 5  for the surfactant).
            In some embodiments, a microemulsion comprises water, a solvent, and a
    surfactant. In some embodiments, the microemulsion further comprises additional
    components, for example, a freezing point depression agent. Details of each of the
    components of the microemulsions are described in detail herein. In some embodiments,
10  the components of the microemulsions are selected so as to reduce or eliminate the
    hazards of the microemulsion to the environment and/or the subterranean reservoirs.
            In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprise between about 1
    wt% and 95 wt% water, between about 1 wt% and 99 wt% solvent, between about 0 wt%
    and about 50 wt% alcohol, between about 1 wt% and 90 wt% surfactant, and between
15  about 0 wt% and about 70 wt% freezing point depression agent, and between about 0
    wt% and about 70 wt% other additives, versus the total microemulsion composition. In
    some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprise between about 1 wt% and
    60 wt% water, between about 1 wt% and 30 wt% solvent, between about 1 wt% and
    about 50 wt% alcohol, between about 5 wt% and 65 wt% surfactant, and between about
20  0 wt% and about 25 wt% freezing point depression agent, and between about 0 wt% and
    about 30 wt% other additives, versus the total microemulsion composition. In some
    embodiments, for the formulation above, the water is present in an amount between
    about 10 wt% and about 55 wt%, or between about 15 wt% and about 45 wt%. In some
    embodiments, for the formulation above the solvent is present in an amount between
25  about 2 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 25 wt%. In some
    embodiments, the solvent comprises a terpene. In some embodiments, for the
    formulations above, the alcohol is present in an amount between about 5 wt% and about
    40 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and 35 wt%. In some embodiments, the alcohol
    comprises isopropanol. In some embodiments, for the formulations above, the surfactant
30  is present in an amount between about 5 wt% and 60 wt%, or between about 10 wt% and
    55 wt%. In some embodiments, for the formulations above, the freezing point depression
    agent is present in an amount between about 1 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about
    1 wt% and about 20 wt%, or between about 3 wt% and about 20 wt%. In some
                                                  _a -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    embodiments, for the formulations above, the other additives are present in an amount
    between about 1 wt% and about 30 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 25 wt%, or
    between about 1 wt% and about 20 wt%. In some embodiments, the other additives
    comprise one or more salts and/or one or more acids.
 5           In some embodiments, a microemulsion composition comprises between about 5
    wt% to about 60 wt% water, from about 2 wt% to about 50 wt% solvent, from about 5
    wt% to about 60 wt% of a first type of a solubilizing surfactant, from about 2 wt% to
    about 50 wt% of alcohol, from about 0.5 to 30 wt% of a freezing point depression agent,
    from about 0.5 wt% to about 30 wt% of a second type of surfactant, from about 0 wt% to
10  about 70 wt% of other additives (e.g., acid), and from about 0.5 wt% to about 30% of
    mutual solvent, which is miscible together with the water and the solvent. In some
    embodiments, the solvent is a substance with a significant hydrophobic character with
    linear, branched, cyclic, bicyclic, saturated or unsaturated structure, including but not
    limited to terpenes, terpineols, terpene alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, esters, amines, and
15  amides. Non-limiting examples of suitable mutual solvents include
    ethyleneglycolmonobutyl ether (EGMBE), dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether, short
    chain alcohols (e.g., isopropanol), tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethylformamide, and
    dimethylsulfoxide. Freezing point depressions agents are described in more detail herein,
    and include, but are not limited to, alkali metal or earth alkali metal salts, preferably
20  chlorides, urea, alcohols (e.g., glycols such as propylene glycol and triethylene glycol).
    In some embodiments, the solubilizing surfactant is a molecule capable of forming a
    colloidal solution of the said solvent in predominantly aqueous media. Generally,
    surfactants are amphiphilic molecules that adsorb at interfaces to lower surface energy
    and can be used to form microemulsions in which they stabilize a mixture of polar and
25  non-polar solvent. Non-limiting examples of suitable surfactants include nonionic
    surfactants with linear or branched structure, including, but not limited to, ethoxylated
    fatty alcohols, ethoxylated castor oils, and alkyl glucosides with a hydrocarbon chain of
    at least 8 carbon atoms and mole % of ethoxylation of 5 or more. Additional surfactants
    are described herein. Non-limiting examples of second types of surfactants include
30  adsorption modifiers, foamers, surface tension lowering enhancers, and emulsion
    breaking additives. Specific examples of such surfactants include cationic surfactants
    with a medium chain length, linear or branched anionic surfactants, amine oxides,
    amphoteric surfactants, silicone based surfactants, alkoxylated novolac resins (e.g.
                                                 - i) -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    alkoxylated phenolic resins), alkoxylated polyimines, alkoxylated polyamines, and
    fluorosurfactants.
             In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is as described in U.S.
    Patent Number 7,380,606 and entitled "Composition and Process for Well Cleaning,"
 5  herein incorporated by reference.
    I-A.     Solvents
             The microemulsion generally comprises a solvent. The solvent, or a combination
    of solvents, may be present in the microemulsion in any suitable amount. In some
10  embodiments, the total amount of solvent present in the microemulsion is between about
    1 wt% and about 99 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and about 90 wt %, or between about
    1 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about
    1 and about 50 wt%, or between about 1 and about 30 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and
    about 40 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 30 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and
15  about 25 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about 60 wt% and
    about 95 wt%, or between about 70 wt% or about 95 wt%, or between about 75 wt% and
    about 90 wt%, or between about 80 wt% and about 95 wt%, versus the total
    microemulsion composition.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that microemulsions comprising
20  more than two types of solvents may be utilized in the methods, compositions, and
    systems described herein. For example, the microemulsion may comprise more than one
    or two types of solvent, for example, three, four, five, six, or more, types of solvents. In
    some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a first type of solvent and a second
    type of solvent. The first type of solvent to the second type of solvent ratio in a
25  microemulsion may be present in any suitable ratio. In some embodiments, the ratio of
    the first type of solvent to the second type of solvent by weight is between about 4:1 and
    1:4, or between 2:1 and 1:2, or about 1:1.
    I-AL. Hydrocarbon solvents
30           In some embodiments, the solvent is an unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched
    or unbranched alkane having 6-12 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane has 6-10 carbon atoms. Non-limiting examples
    of unsubstituted acyclic unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms include hexane,
                                                 S11   -

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    heptane, octane, nonane, decane, undecane, and dodecane. Non-limiting examples of
    unsubstituted acyclic branched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms include isomers of
    methylpentane (e.g., 2-methylpentane, 3-methylpentane), isomers of dimethylbutane
    (e.g., 2,2-dimethylbutane, 2,3-dimethylbutane), isomers of methylhexane (e.g., 2
 5  methylhexane, 3-methylhexane), isomers of ethylpentane (e.g., 3-ethylpentane), isomers
    of dimethylpentane (e.g., 2,2,-dimethylpentane, 2,3-dimethylpentane, 2,4
    dimethylpentane, 3,3-dimethylpentane), isomers of trimethylbutane (e.g., 2,2,3
    trimethylbutane), isomers of methylheptane (e.g., 2-methylheptane, 3-methylheptane, 4
    methylheptane), isomers of dimethylhexane (e.g., 2,2-dimethylhexane, 2,3
10  dimethylhexane, 2,4-dimethylhexane, 2,5-dimethylhexane, 3,3-dimethylhexane, 3,4
    dimethylhexane), isomers of ethylhexane (e.g., 3-ethylhexane), isomers of
    trimethylpentane (e.g., 2,2,3-trimethylpentane, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, 2,3,3
    trimethylpentane, 2,3,4-trimethylpentane), and isomers of ethylmethylpentane (e.g., 3
    ethyl-2-methylpentane, 3-ethyl-3-methylpentane). Non-limiting examples of
15  unsubstituted cyclic branched or unbranched alkanes having 6-12 carbon atoms, include
    cyclohexane, methylcyclopentane, ethylcyclobutane, propylcyclopropane,
    isopropylcyclopropane, dimethylcyclobutane, cycloheptane, methylcyclohexane,
    dimethylcyclopentane, ethylcyclopentane, trimethylcyclobutane, cyclooctane,
    methylcycloheptane, dimethylcyclohexane, ethylcyclohexane, cyclononane,
20  methylcyclooctane, dimethylcycloheptane, ethylcycloheptane, trimethylcyclohexane,
    ethylmethylcyclohexane, propylcyclohexane, and cyclodecane. In a particular
    embodiment, the unsubstituted cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane having
    6-12 carbon is selected from the group consisting of heptane, octane, nonane, decane,
    2,2,4-trimethylpentane (isooctane), and propylcyclohexane.
25           In some embodiments, the solvent is an unsubstituted acyclic branched or
    unbranched alkene having one or two double bonds and 6-12 carbon atoms. In some
    embodiments, the solvent is an unsubstituted acyclic branched or unbranched alkene
    having one or two double bonds and 6-10 carbon atoms. Non-limiting examples of
    unsubstituted acyclic unbranched alkenes having one or two double bonds and 6-12
30  carbon atoms include isomers of hexene (e.g., 1-hexene, 2-hexene), isomers of hexadiene
    (e.g., 1,3-hexadiene, 1,4-hexadiene), isomers of heptene (e.g., 1-heptene, 2-heptene, 3
    heptene), isomers of heptadiene (e.g., 1,5-heptadiene, 1-6, heptadiene), isomers of octene
    (e.g., 1-octene, 2-octene, 3-octene), isomers of octadiene (e.g., 1,7-octadiene), isomers of
                                               - 11) -

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    nonene, isomers of nonadiene, isomers of decene, isomers of decadiene, isomers of
    undecene, isomers of undecadiene, isomers of dodecene, and isomers of dodecadiene. In
    some embodiments, the acyclic unbranched alkene having one or two double bonds and
    6-12 carbon atoms is an alpha-olefin (e.g., 1-hexene, 1-heptene, 1-octene, 1-nonene, 1
 5  decene, 1-undecene, 1-dodecene). Non-limiting examples unsubstituted acyclic branched
    alkenes include isomers of methylpentene, isomers of dimethylpentene, isomers of
    ethylpentene, isomers of methylethylpentene, isomers of propylpentene, isomers of
    methylhexene, isomers of ethylhexene, isomers of dimethylhexene, isomers of
    methylethylhexene, isomers of methylheptene, isomers of ethylheptene, isomers of
10  dimethylhexptene, and isomers of methylethylheptene. In a particular embodiment, the
    unsubstituted acyclic unbranched alkene having one or two double bonds and 6-12
    carbon atoms is selected from the group consisting of 1-octene and 1,7-octadiene.
            In some embodiments, the solvent is a cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    alkane having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group. Non-limiting
15  examples of cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 9-12 carbon atoms
    and substituted with only an -OH group include isomers of nonanol, isomers of decanol,
    isomers of undecanol, and isomers of dodecanol. In a particular embodiment, the cyclic
    or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkane having 9-12 carbon atoms and substituted
    with only an -OH group is selected from the group consisting of 1-nonanol and 1
20  decanol.
            In some embodiments, the solvent is a branched or unbranched dialkylether
    compound having the formula C.H2n+1OCmH2m+l wherein n + m is between 6 and 16. In
    some cases, n + m is between 6 and 12, or between 6 and 10, or between 6 and 8. Non
    limiting examples of branched or unbranched dialkylether compounds having the
25  formula CnH2n+1OCmH2m+1 include isomers of C3 H 7OC 3 H7 , isomers of C4H 9OC 3H 7 ,
    isomers of C 5H 11OC 3H 7 , isomers of C6H 13 OC 3 H 7, isomers of C 4 H 9OC 4 H 9 , isomers of
    C 4H 9OC 5H 11 , isomers of C4H 9OC 6H 13 , isomers of C5H 11 OC 6H 13 , and isomers of
    C6H 13 0C 6H 13 . In a particular embodiment, the branched or unbranched dialklyether is an
    isomer C6H 13 0C 6H 13 (e.g., dihexylether).
30          In some embodiments, the solvent is an aromatic solvent having a boiling point
    between about 300-400 F. Non-limiting examples of aromatic solvents having a boiling
    point between about 300-400 F include butylbenzene, hexylbenzene, mesitylene, light
    aromatic naphtha, and heavy aromatic naphtha.

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
            In some embodiments, the solvent is a bicyclic hydrocarbon solvent with varying
    degrees of unsaturation including fused, bridgehead, and spirocyclic compounds. Non
    limiting examples of bicyclic solvents include isomers of decalin, tetrahydronapthalene,
    norbornane, norbomene, bicyclo [4.2.0]octane, bicyclo[3.2.1 ]octane, and
 5  spiro[5.5]dodecane.
            In some embodiments, the solvent is a bicyclic hydrocarbon solvent with varying
    degrees of unsaturation and containing at least one 0, N, or S atom including fused,
    bridgehead, and spirocyclic compounds. Non-limiting examples include isomers of 7
    oxabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane, 4,7-epoxyisobenzofuran-1,3-dione, and 7
10  oxabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2,3-dicarboxylic acid, 2,3-dimethyl ester.
            In some embodiments, the solvent is a cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    alkane having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group. Non-limiting
    examples of cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkanes having 8 carbon atoms
    and substituted with only an -OH group include isomers of octanol (e.g., 1-octanol, 2
15  octanol, 3-octanol, 4-octanol), isomers of methyl heptanol, isomers of ethylhexanol (e.g.,
    2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 3-ethyl-i -hexanol, 4-ethyl-1-hexanol), isomers of dimethylhexanol,
    isomers of propylpentanol, isomers of methylethylpentanol, and isomers of
    trimethylpentanol. In a particular embodiment, the cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched alkane having 8 carbon atoms and substituted with only an -OH group is
20  selected from the group consisting of 1-octanol and 2-ethyl-1-hexanol.
    I-A2. Amine and Amide Solvents
            In some embodiments, the amine is of the formula NR R2R3, wherein R1 , R 2 , and
    R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or
25  unbranched alkyl (e.g., C1I16 alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, any two of R ,
    R 2 and R 3 are joined together to form a ring. In some embodiments, each of R 1 , R 2, and
    R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched alkyl, or optionally, any two of R , R2 and R3 are joined together to form a
    ring, provide at least one of R1 , R 2, and R3 is methyl or ethyl. In some cases, R1 is cyclic
30  or acyclic, branched or unbranched C 1-C6 alkyl and R 2 and R 3 are the same or different
    and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), or
    optionally, R2 and R3 may be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R1 is methyl
    or ethyl and R 2 and R 3 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic,
                                                  - 1A -

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), or optionally, R2 and R3 may be joined
    together to form a ring. In some cases, R1 is methyl and R2 and R3 are the same or
    different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16
    alkyl), or optionally, R 2 and R3 may be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R
 5  and R2 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C1-C 6 alkyl and R3 is branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl). In
    some cases, Ri and R2 are the same or different and are methyl or ethyl and R3 is
    hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Cs 1 6 alkyl). In some
    cases, Ri and R2 are methyl and R3 is hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or
10  unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl).
              In some embodiments, the amine is of the formula NR1 R2R3 , wherein R1 , R2 , and
    R3 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g.,
                                                                        1   2
    C1 -1 6 alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, any two of R , R and R3 are joined
    together to form a ring. In some embodiments, each of R , R2 , and R3 are the same or
15  different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl, or optionally, any two
    of R1 , R2 and R3 are joined together to form a ring, provide at least one of R1 , R2 , and R3
    is methyl or ethyl. In some cases, R1 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 -C6
    alkyl and R2 and R3 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 1i alkyl), or optionally, R2 and R 3 may be joined together to
20  form a ring. In some cases, R1 is methyl or ethyl and R2 and R 3 are the same or different
    and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl), or optionally,
    R2 and R3 may be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R1 is methyl and R2 and
    R3 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g.,
    C8 16   alkyl), or optionally, R 2 and R3 may be joined together to form a ring. In some
25  cases, Ri and R2 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C 1-C6 alkyl and R3 is branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl). In
    some cases, Ri and R2 are the same or different and are methyl or ethyl and R3 is cyclic
    or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl). In some cases, Ri and R2 are
    methyl and R3 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl).
30            In some embodiments, the amine is of the formula NR R2R3, wherein R1 is
    methyl and R2 and R3 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched C8       1i alkyl, or optionally R2 and R3 are joined together to form a
    ring. Non-limiting examples of amines include isomers of N-methyl-octylamine, isomers

   WO 2014/153102                                                         PCT/US2014/029079
    of N-methyl-nonylamine, isomers of N-methyl-decylamine, isomers of N
    methylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyldodecylamine, isomers of N methyl
    teradecylamine, and isomers of N-methyl-hexadecylamine. In certain embodiements, the
    amine is selected from the group consisting of N methyldecylamine and N
 5  methylhexadecylamine.
            In some embodiments, the amine is of the formula NR R2R3, wherein R1 is
    methyl and R2 and R3 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C8s6 alkyl, or optionally R2 and R 3 are joined together to form a ring. In
    some embodiments, the amine is of the formula NR1 R 2R 3 , wherein R1 is methyl and R2
10  and R3 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched Cs-i6
    alkyl, or optionally R2 and R3 are joined together to form a ring. Non-limiting examples
    of amines include isomers of N-methyl-N-octyloctylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    nonylnonylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    undecylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-dodecyldodecylamine, isomers of N
15  methyl-N-tetradecylteradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-hexadecylhdexadecylamine,
    isomers of N-methyl-N-octylnonylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyldecylamine,
    isomers of N-methyl-N-octyldodecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-octylundecylamine,
    isomers of N-methyl-N-octyltetradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    octylhexadecylamine, N-methyl-N-nonyldecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
20  nonyldodecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-nonyltetradecylamine, isomers of N
    methyl-N-nonylhexadecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecylamine, isomers of
    N-methyl-N-decylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecylamine, isomers of
    N-methyl-N-decyltetradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decylhexadecylamine,
    isomers of N-methyl-N-dodecylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
25  dodecyltetradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-dodecylhexadecylamine, and isomers of
    N-methyl-N-tetradecylhexadecylamine. In certain embodiments, the amine is selected
    from the group consisting of N-methyl-N-octyloctylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    nonylnonylamine, isomers of N-methyl N-decyldecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    undecylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-dodecyldodecylamine, isomers of N
30  methyl-N-tetradecylteradecylamine, and isomers of N-methyl-N
    hexadecylhdexadecylamine. In certain embodiments, the amine is selected from the
    group consisting of N-methyl-N-dodecyldodecylamine and isomers of N-methyl-N
    hexadecylhexadecylamine. In certain embodiments, the amine is selected from the group
                                                - 1A -

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    consisting of isomers of N-methyl-N-octylnonylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    octyldecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyldodecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
    octylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyltetradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl
    N-octylhexadecylamine, N-methyl-N-nonyldecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
 5  nonyldodecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-nonyltetradecylamine, isomers of N
    methyl-N-nonylhexadecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecylamine, isomers of
    N-methyl-N-decylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecylamine, isomers of
    N-methyl-N-decyltetradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-decylhexadecylamine,
    isomers of N-methyl-N-dodecylundecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N
10  dodecyltetradecylamine, isomers of N-methyl-N-dodecylhexadecylamine, and isomers of
    N-methyl-N-tetradecylhexadecylamine. In certain embodiments, the cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched tri-substituted amines is selected from the group consisting of
    N-methyl-N-octyldodecylamine, N-methyl-N-octylhexadecylamine or N-methyl-N
    dodecylhexadecylamine.
15            In certain embodiments, the amine is of the formula NR R2 R3 , wherein R1 and R2
    are methyl and R3 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched Csis alkyl. Non-limiting
    examples of amines include isomers of N,N-dimethylnonylamine, isomers of N,N
    dimethyldecylamine, isomers of N,N-dimethylundecylamine, isomers of N,N
    dimethyldodecylamine, isomers of N,N-dimethyltetradecylamine, and isomers of N,N
20  dimethylhexadecylamine. In certain embodiments, the amine is selected from the group
    consisting of N,N-dimethyldecylamine, isomers of N,N-dodecylamine, and isomers of
    N,N-dimethylhexadecylamine.
              In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR4 )R R 6, wherein R 4 ,
    R , and R6 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or
25  unbranched alkyl (e.g., C1I16 alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are
    joined together to form a ring. In some embodiments, each of R4, R 5 , and R6 are the same
    or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C1_
     16 alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined together to form a
    ring, provided at least one of R4 , R , and R6 is methyl or ethyl. In some cases, R4 is
30  hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C1-C      6  alkyl, optionally
    substituted, and R 5 and R6 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally substituted, or
    optionally, R5 and R6 may be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R 4 is
                                                  _ 1'7 _

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    hydrogen, methyl, or ethyl and R5 and R6 are the same or different and are hydrogen or
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl), optionally substituted,
    or optionally, R5 and R6 may be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R 4 is
    hydrogen and R 5 and R6 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
 5  unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 may
    be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R 4 and R5 are the same or different and
    are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 -C6 alkyl, optionally
    substituted, and R6 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 1 6 alkyl),
    optionally substituted. In some cases, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are
10  hydrogen, methyl, or ethyl and R6 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl
    (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally substituted. In some cases, R 4 and R5 are hydrogen and R6 is
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl), optionally substituted.
    In some cases, R6 is hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 -C6 alkyl,
    optionally substituted, and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic
15  or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally substituted, or
    optionally. In some cases, R6 is hydrogen, methyl, or ethyl and R4 and R 5 are the same or
    different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16
    alkyl). In some cases, R 6 is hydrogen and R 4 and R5 are the same or different and are
    cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl), optionally substituted.
20  In some cases, R 5 and R6 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted, and R4 is cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8     16 alkyl), optionally substituted. In some cases, R5
    and R6 are the same or different and are hydrogen, methyl, or ethyl and R4 is cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 1 6 alkyl), optionally substituted. In some
25  cases, R5 and R6 are hydrogen and R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl
    (e.g., C8 16 alkyl), optionally substituted.
             In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR4 )R R6, wherein R4 ,
    R , and R6 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    alkyl (e.g., C1I16 alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined
30  together to form a ring. In some embodiments, each of R4 , R , and R6 are the same or
    different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C1I16 alkyl),
    optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined together to form a ring,
    provided at least one of R4 , R , and R6 is methyl or ethyl. In some cases, R4 is cyclic or
                                                   _ 1Q _

   WO 2014/153102                                                               PCT/US2014/029079
    acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 -C6 alkyl, optionally substituted, and R' and R6 are
    the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl
    (e.g., C8  1i alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 may be joined together
    to form a ring. In some cases, R4 is methyl or ethyl and R5 and R6 are the same or
 5  different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 16 alkyl),
    optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 may be joined together to form a ring. In
    some cases, R 4 is and R5 and R6 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8      1i alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5
    and R6 may be joined together to form a ring. In some cases, R 4 is methyl and R5 and R6
10  are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g.,
    C8 1 6 alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 may be joined together to
    form a ring. In some cases, R4 and R5 are the same or different and are methyl or ethyl
    and R6 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally
    substituted. In some cases, R4 and R5 are methyl and R6 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or
15  unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 1i alkyl), optionally substituted. In some cases, R6 is cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 -C6 alkyl, optionally substituted, and R4 and R5 are
    the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl
    (e.g., C8  1i alkyl), optionally substituted, or optionally. In some cases, R6 is methyl or
    ethyl and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are hydrogen or cyclic or acyclic,
20  branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 1i alkyl). In some cases, R6 is methyl and R4 and
    R are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g.,
    C8 16 alkyl), optionally substituted. In some cases, R5 and R6 are the same or different
    and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C1-C 6 alkyl, optionally substituted, and
    R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally
25  substituted. In some cases, R5 and R6 are the same or different and are methyl or ethyl
    and R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., Csis alkyl), optionally
    substituted. In some cases, R and R6 are methyl and R6 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched alkyl (e.g., C8 1i alkyl), optionally substituted.
             In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R6, wherein each
30  of R4 , R , and R6 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C4_is alkyl, optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined
    together to form a ring. In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula
    N(C=OR 4)R5 R6, wherein each of R4, R5 , and R6 are the same or different and are cyclic
                                                    _ 10O

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    or acyclic, branched or unbranched C8 16 alkyl, optionally substituted, or optionally, R5
    and R6 are joined together to form a ring. In some embodiments, the amide is of the
    formula N(C=OR4 )R R6 , wherein each of R4, R , and R6 are the same or different and are
    selected from the group consisting of t-butyl and cyclic or acyclic, branched or
 5  unbranched C5si6 alkyl, optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined
    together to form a ring. In some embodiments, R4, R5 , and R6 are the same or different
    and are selected from the group consisting of t-butyl and cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C8 16 alkyl, optionally substituted, or optionally, R5 and R6 are joined
    together to form a ring. Non-limiting examples amides include N,N-dioctyloctamide,
10  N,N-dinonylnonamide, N,N-didecyldecamide, N,N-didodecyldodecamide, N,N
    diundecylundecamide, N,N-ditetradecyltetradecamide, N,N-dihexadecylhexadecamide,
    N,N-didecyloctamide, N,N-didodecyloctamide, N,N-dioctyldodecamide, N,N
    didecyldodecamide, N,N-dioctylhexadecamide, N,N-didecylhexadecamide, and N,N
    didodecylhexadecamide. In certain embodiments, the amide is selected from the group
15  consisting of N,N-dioctyldodecamide and N,N-didodecyloctamide
             In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R6, wherein R6 is
    hydrogen or C1 -C3 alkyl and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched C4 _16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some
    embodiments, R6 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, methyl, ethyl,
20  propyl and isopropyl, and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched C4 _16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In certain embodiments, R6 is
    selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl and isopropyl, and
    R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C8
    16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some cases, at least one of R4 and R5 is substituted
25  with a hydroxy group. In some embodiments, R6 is selected from the group consisting of
    hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl, and isopropyl, and R4 and R5 are the same or different
    and are selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl, cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C5 16 alkyl, optionally substituted, and cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C1I16 alkyl substituted with an -OH group.
30           In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R6, wherein R6 is
    C1-C3 alkyl and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
    unbranched C4 _16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some embodiments, R6 is selected from
    the group consisting of methyl, ethyl, propyl and isopropyl, and R4 and R5 are the same

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C4 _16 alkyl, optionally
    substituted. In certain embodiments, R6 is selected from the group consisting of methyl,
    ethyl, propyl and isopropyl, and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched C8 16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some cases, at
 5  least one of R4 and R5 is substituted with a hydroxy group. In some embodiments, R6 is
    selected from the group consisting of methyl, ethyl, propyl, and isopropyl, and R4 and R5
    are the same or different and are selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl, cyclic
    or acyclic, branched or unbranched C5s6 alkyl, optionally substituted, and cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 _i alkyl substituted with an -OH group.
10          Non-limiting examples of amides include N,N-di-tert-butylformamide, N,N
    dipentylformamide, N,N-dihexylformamide, N,N-diheptylformamide, N,N
    dioctylformamide, N,N-dinonylformamide, N,N-didecylformamide, N,N
    diundecylformamide, N,N-didodecylformamide, N,N-dihydroxymethylformamide, N,N
    di-tert-butylacetamide, N,N-dipentylacetamide, N,N-dihexylacetamide, N,N
15  diheptylacetamide, N,N-dioctylacetamide, N,N-dinonylacetamide, N,N
    didecylacetamide, N,N-diundecylacetamide, N,N-didodecylacetamide, N,N
    dihydroxymethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylpropionamide, N,N-diethylpropionamide,
    N,N-dipropylpropionamide, such as N,N-di-n-propylpropionamide or N,N
    diisopropylpropionamide, N,N-dibutylpropionamide, such as N,N-di-n
20  butylpropionamide, N,N-di-sec-butylpropionamide, N,N-diisobutylpropionamide or
    N,N-di-tert-butylpropionamide, N,N-dipentylpropionamide, N,N-dihexylpropionamide,
    N,N-diheptylpropionamide, N,N-dioctylpropionamide, N,N-dinonylpropionamide, N,N
    didecylpropionamide, N,N-diundecylpropionamide, N,N-didodecylpropionamide, N,N
    dimethyl-n-butyramide, N,N-diethyl-n-butyramide, N,N-dipropyl-n-butyramide, such as
25  N,N-di-n-propyl-n-butyramide or N,N-diisopropyl-n-butyramide, N,N-dibutyl-n
    butyramide, such as N,N-di-n-butyl-n-butyramide, N,N-di-sec-butyl-n-butyramide, N,N
    diisobutyl-n-butyramide, N,N-di-tert-butyl-n-butyramide, N,N-dipentyl-n-butyramide,
    N,N-dihexyl-n-butyramide, N,N-diheptyl-n-butyramide, N,N-dioctyl-n-butyramide,
    N,N-dinonyl-n-butyramide, N,N-didecyl-n-butyramide, N,N-diundecyl-n-butyramide,
30  N,N-didodecyl-n-butyramide, N,N-dipentylisobutyramide, N,N-dihexylisobutyramide,
    N,N-diheptylisobutyramide, N,N-dioctylisobutyramide, N,N-dinonylisobutyramide,
    N,N-didecylisobutyramide, N,N-diundecylisobutyramide, N,N-didodecylisobutyramide,
    N,N-pentylhexylformamide, N,N-pentylhexylacetamide, N,N-pentylhexylpropionamide,
                                                _191 _

   WO 2014/153102                                                       PCT/US2014/029079
    N,N-pentylhexyl-n-butyramide, N,N-pentylhexylisobutyramide, N,N
    methylethylpropionamide, N,N-methyl-n-propylpropionamide, N,N
    methylisopropylpropionamide, N,N-methyl-n-butylpropionamide, N,N-methylethyl-n
    butyramide, N,N-methyl-n-butyramide, N,N-methylisopropyl-n-butyramide, N,N
 5  methyl-n-butyl-n-butyramide, N,N-methylethylisobutyramide, N,N-methyl-n
    propylisobutyramide, N,N-methylisopropylisobutyramide, and N,N-methyl-n
    butylisobutyramide. In certain embodiments, the amide is selected from the group
    consisting of N,N-dioctyldodecacetamide, N,N-methyl-N
    octylhexadeedidodecylacetamide, and N-methyl-N-ihexadecyldodecylhexadecacetamide.
10          In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R 6, wherein R6 is
    hydrogen or methyl and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched C8 16 alkyl. Non-limiting amides include isomers of N
    methyloctamide, isomers of N-methylnonamide, isomers of N-methyldecamide, isomers
    of N methylundecamide, isomers of N methyldodecamide, isomers of N
15  methylteradecamide, and isomers of N-methyl-hexadecamide. In certain embodiments
    the amides are slected from the group consisteing of N methyloctamide, N
    methyldodecamide, and N methylhexadecamide.
            In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R 6, wherein R6 is
    methyl and R4 and R5 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic, branched or
20  unbranched C8 16 alkyl. Non-limiting amides include isomers of N-methyl-N
    octyloctamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-nonylnonamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    decyldecamide, isomers of N methyl-N undecylundecamide, isomers of N methyl-N
    dodecyldodecamide, isomers of N methyl N-tetradecylteradecamide, isomers of N
    methyl-N-hexadecylhdexadecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-octylnonamide, isomers of
25  N-methyl-N-octyldecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyldodecamide, isomers of N
    methyl-N-octylundecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyltetradecamide, isomers of N
    methyl-N-octylhexadecamide, N-methyl-N-nonyldecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    nonyldodecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-nonyltetradecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    nonylhexadecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecamide, isomers of N methyl-N
30  decylundecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    decyltetradecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-decylhexadecamide, isomers of N methyl
    N-dodecylundecamide, isomers of N methyl-N-dodecyltetradecamide, isomers of N
    methyl-N-dodecylhexadecamide, and isomers of N methyl-N-tetradecylhexadecamide.

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    In certain embodiments, the amide is selected from the group consisting of isomers of N
    methyl-N-octyloctamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-nonylnonamide, isomers of N-methyl
    N-decyldecamide, isomers of N methyl-N undecylundecamide, isomers of N methyl-N
    dodecyldodecamide, isomers of N methyl N-tetradecylteradecamide, and isomers of N
 5  methyl-N-hexadecylhdexadecamide. In certain embodiments, amide is selected from the
    group consisting of N-methyl-N-octyloctamide, N methyl-N-dodecyldodecamide, and N
    methyl-N-hexadecylhexadecamide. In certain embodiments, the amide is selected from
    the group consisting of isomers of N-methyl-N-octylnonamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    octyldecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyldodecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
10  octylundecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-octyltetradecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    octylhexadecamide, N-methyl-N-nonyldecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    nonyldodecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-nonyltetradecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
    nonylhexadecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecamide, isomers of N methyl-N
    decylundecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-decyldodecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N
15  decyltetradecamide, isomers of N-methyl-N-decylhexadecamide, isomers of N methyl
    N-dodecylundecamide, isomers of N methyl-N-dodecyltetradecamide, isomers of N
    methyl-N-dodecylhexadecamide, and isomers of N methyl-N-tetradecylhexadecamide.
    In certain embodiments, the amides is selected from the group consisting of N-methyl-N
    octyldodecamide, N-methyl-N-octylhexadecamide, and N-methyl-N
20  dodecylhexadecamide.
            In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R6, wherein R5
    and R6 are the same or different and are hydrogen or CI-C 3 alkyl and R4 is cyclic or
    acyclic, branched or unbranched C4_is alkyl, optionally substituted. In some
    embodiments, R and R6 are the same or different and are selected from the group
25  consisting of hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl and isopropyl, and R 4 is cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched C4 _i6 alkyl, optionally substituted. In certain embodiments, R5
    and R6 are the same or different and are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
    methyl, ethyl, propyl and isopropyl and R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched
    C8 16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some cases, R4 is substituted with a hydroxy group.
30  In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are the same or different and are selected from the
    group consisting of hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl, and isopropyl, and R 4 is selected
    from the group consisting of tert-butyl, cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C5 1i

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    alkyl, optionally substituted, and cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C1 I16 alkyl
    substituted with an -OH group.
            In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R 6, wherein R5
    and R6 are the same or different and are C1 -C 3 alkyl and R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched
 5  or unbranched C4_i 6 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some embodiments, R5 and R6 are
    the same or different and are selected from the group consisting of methyl, ethyl, propyl
    and isopropyl, and R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C4 _16 alkyl, optionally
    substituted. In certain embodiments, R5 and R6 are the same or different and are selected
    from the group consisting of methyl, ethyl, propyl and isopropyl and R4 is cyclic or
10  acyclic, branched or unbranched C8 16 alkyl, optionally substituted. In some cases, R4 is
    substituted with a hydroxy group. In some embodiments, R and R6 are the same or
    different and are selected from the group consisting of methyl, ethyl, propyl, and
    isopropyl, and R4 is selected from the group consisting of tert-butyl, cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched Csi1 alkyl, optionally substituted, and cyclic or acyclic,
15  branched or unbranched C16 alkyl substituted with an -OH group.
            In some embodiments, the amide is of the formula N(C=OR 4)R5 R6, wherein R5
    and R6 are methyl and R4 is cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched C8s6 alkyl. Non
    limiting examples of amides include isomers of N,N-dimethyloctamide, isomers of N,N
    dimethylnonamide, isomers of N,N-dimethyldecamide, isomers of N,N
20  dimethylundecamide, isomers of N,N-dimethyldodecamide, isomers of N,N
    dimethyltetradecamide, and isomers of N,N-dimethylhexadecamide. In certain
    embodiments, the cyclic or acyclic, branched or unbranched tri-substituted amines is
    selected from the group consisting of N,N-dimethyloctamide, N,N-dodecamide, and
    N,N-dimethylhexadecamide.
25          In some embodiments, the solvent is an aromatic solvent having a boiling point
    between about 175-300 F. Non-limiting examples of aromatic liquid solvents having a
    boiling point between about 175-300 F include benzene, xylenes, and toluene. In a
    particular embodiment, the solvent is not xylene.
30  I-A3. Fatty Acid Ester Solvents
            In some embodiments, at least one of the solvents present in the microemulsion is
    an ester of fatty acid, either naturally occurring or synthetic with the formula
    R 7 0(C=OR), wherein R 7 and R8 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic,
                                                 - ')A -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    branched or unbranched alkyl (e.g., C 1-16 alkyl), optionally substituted. In some
    embodiments, each of R7 and R8 are the same or different and are cyclic or acyclic,
    branched or unbranched alkyl, or optionally, provide at least one of R7 and R8 is methyl,
    ethyl, propyl, or butyl. Non-limiting examples include isomers of methyl octanoate,
 5  methyl decanoate, methyl dodecanoate, methyl undecanoate, methyl hexadecanoate,
    ethyl octanoate, ethyl decanoate, ethyl dodecanoate, ethyl undecanoate, ethyl
    hexadecanoate, propyl octanoate, propyl decanoate, propyl dodecanoate, propyl
    undecanoate, propyl hexadecanoate, butyl octanoate, butyl decanoate, butyl dodecanoate,
    butyl undecanoate, and butyl hexadecanoate. In certain embodiments, the esters are
10  selected from the group consisting of methyl dodecanoate, methyl hexadecanoate, ethyl
    dodecanoate, ethyl hexadecanoate, propyl dodecanoate, propyl hexadecanoate, butyl
    dodecanoate, and butyl hexadecanoate. Non-limiting examples include isomers of octyl
    octanoate, nonyl, nonanoate, decyl decanoate,undecyl undecanoate, dodecyl decanoate,
    hexadecyl hexadecanoate. In certain embodiments the esters are selected from the group
15  consisting of octyl octonoate and decyl decanoate.
    I-A4. Terpene Solvents
             In some embodiments, at least one of the solvents present in the microemulsion is
    a terpene or a terpenoid. In some embodiments, the terpene or terpenoid comprises a first
20  type of terpene or terpenoid and a second type of terpene or terpenoid. Terpenes may be
    generally classified as monoterpenes (e.g., having two isoprene units), sesquiterpenes
    (e.g., having 3 isoprene units), diterpenes, or the like. The term terpenoid also includes
    natural degradation products, such as ionones, and natural and synthetic derivatives, e.g.,
    terpene alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, acids, esters, epoxides, and hydrogenation products
25  (e.g., see Ullmann's Encyclopedia of Industrial Chemistry, 2012, pages 29-45, herein
    incorporated by reference). It should be understood, that while much of the description
    herein focuses on terpenes, this is by no means limiting, and terpenoids may be
    employed where appropriate. In some cases, the terpene is a naturally occurring terpene.
    In some cases, the terpene is a non-naturally occurring terpene and/or a chemically
30  modified terpene (e.g., saturated terpene, terpene amine, fluorinated terpene, or silylated
    terpene).
             In some embodiments, the terpene is a monoterpene. Monoterpenes may be
    further classified as acyclic, monocyclic, and bicyclic (e.g., with a total number of

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    carbons in the range between 18-20), as well as whether the monoterpene comprises one
    or more oxygen atoms (e.g., alcohol groups, ester groups, carbonyl groups, etc.). In some
    embodiments, the terpene is an oxygenated terpene, for example, a terpene comprising
    an alcohol, an aldehyde, and/or a ketone group. In some embodiments, the terpene
 5  comprises an alcohol group. Non-limiting examples of terpenes comprising an alcohol
    group are linalool, geraniol, nopol, a-terpineol, and menthol. In some embodiments, the
    terpene comprises an ether-oxygen, for example, eucalyptol, or a carbonyl oxygen, for
    example, menthone. In some embodiments, the terpene does not comprise an oxygen
    atom, for example, d-limonene.
10           Non-limiting examples of terpenes include linalool, geraniol, nopol, a-terpineol,
    menthol, eucalyptol, menthone, d-limonene, terpinolene, 0-occimene, y-terpinene,
    a-pinene, and citronellene. In a particular embodiment, the terpene is selected from the
    group consisting of a-terpeneol, a-pinene, nopol, and eucalyptol. In one embodiment, the
    terpene is nopol. In another embodiment, the terpene is eucalyptol. In some
15  embodiments, the terpene is not limonene (e.g., d-limonene). In some embodiments, the
    emulsion is free of limonene.
             In some embodiments, the terpene is a non-naturally occurring terpene and/or a
    chemically modified terpene (e.g., saturated terpene). In some cases, the terpene is a
    partially or fully saturated terpene (e.g., p-menthane, pinane). In some cases, the terpene
20  is a non-naturally occurring terpene. Non-limiting examples of non-naturally occurring
    terpenes include, menthene, p-cymene, r-carvone, terpinenes (e.g., alpha-terpinenes,
    beta-terpinenes, gamma-terpinenes), dipentenes, terpinolenes, borneol, alpha
    terpinamine, and pine oils.
             In some embodiments, the terpene is classified in terms of its phase inversion
25  temperature (PIT). The term phase inversion temperature is given its ordinary meaning in
    the art and refers to the temperature at which an oil in water microemulsion inverts to a
    water in oil microemulsion (or vice versa). Those of ordinary skill in the art will be
    aware of methods for determining the PIT for a microemulsion comprising a terpene
    (e.g., see Strey, Colloid & Polymer Science, 1994. 272(8): p. 1005-1019; Kahlweit et al.,
30  Angewandte Chemie International Edition in English, 1985. 24(8): p. 654-668). The PIT
    values described herein were determined using a 1:1 ratio of terpene (e.g., one or more
    terpenes):de-ionized water and varying amounts (e.g., between about 20 wt% and about
    60 wt%; generally, between 3 and 9 different amounts are employed) of a 1:1 blend of

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
    surfactant comprising linear C12 -C15 alcohol ethoxylates with on average 7 moles of
    ethylene oxide (e.g., Neodol 25-7):isopropyl alcohol wherein the upper and lower
    temperature boundaries of the microemulsion region can be determined and a phase
    diagram may be generated. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that such a
 5  phase diagram (e.g., a plot of temperature against surfactant concentration at a constant
    oil-to-water ratio) may be referred to as fish diagram or a Kahlweit plot. The temperature
    at the vertex is the PIT. An exemplary fish diagram indicating the PIT is shown in Figure
    1. PITs for non-limiting examples of terpenes determined using this experimental
    procedure outlined above are given in Table 1.
10
    Table 1: Phase inversion temperatures for non-limiting examples of terpenes.
                Terpene                 Phase Inversion Temperature "F ("C)
                linalool                24.8 (-4)
                geraniol                31.1 (-0.5)
               nopol                    36.5 (2.5)
                a-terpineol             40.3 (4.6)
               menthol                  60.8 (16)
                eucalyptol              87.8 (31)
               menthone                 89.6 (32)
                d-limonene              109.4 (43)
               terpinolene              118.4 (48)
                P-occimene              120.2 (49)
               y-terpinene              120.2 (49)
                a-pinene                134.6 (57)
                citronellene            136.4 (58)
    I-A5. Crude Cut Solvents
             In certain embodiments, the solvent utilized in the emulsion or microemulsion
15  herein may comprise one or more impurities. For example, in some embodiments, a
    solvent (e.g., a terpene) is extracted from a natural source (e.g., citrus, pine), and may
    comprise one or more impurities present from the extraction process. In some
    embodiment, the solvent comprises a crude cut (e.g., uncut crude oil, for example, made
    by settling, separation, heating, etc.). In some embodiments, the solvent is a crude oil

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    (e.g., naturally occurring crude oil, uncut crude oil, crude oil extracted from the wellbore,
    synthetic crude oil, crude citrus oil, crude pine oil, eucalyptus, etc.). In some
    embodiments, the solvent is a citrus extract (e.g., crude orange oil, orange oil, etc.).
 5  I-A 6. Mutual Solvents
             In some embodiments, at least one of the solvents comprised in the emulsion or
    microemulsion comprising a mutual solvent which is miscible together with the water
    and the solvent. In some embodiments, the mutual solvent is present in an amount
    between about at 0.5 wt% to about 30% of mutual solvent. Non-limiting examples of
10  suitable mutual solvents include ethyleneglycolmonobutyl ether (EGMBE), dipropylene
    glycol monomethyl ether, short chain alcohols (e.g., isopropanol), tetrahydrofuran,
    dioxane, dimethylformamide, and dimethylsulfoxide.
    I-B.     Aqueous Phase
15           Generally, the microemulsion comprises an aqueous phase. Generally, the
    aqueous phase comprises water. The water may be provided from any suitable source
    (e.g., sea water, fresh water, deionized water, reverse osmosis water, water from field
    production). The water may be present in any suitable amount. In some embodiments,
    the total amount of water present in the microemulsion is between about 1 wt% about 95
20  wt%, or between about 1 wt% about 90 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about
    60 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 60 wt% or between about 10 and about 55
    wt%, or between about 15 and about 45 wt%, versus the total microemulsion
    composition.
             The water to solvent ratio in a microemulsion may be varied. In some
25  embodiments, the ratio of water to solvent, along with other parameters of the solvent
    may be varied. In some embodiments, the ratio of water to solvent by weight is between
    about 15:1 and 1:10, or between 9:1 and 1:4, or between 3.2:1 and 1:4.
    I-C.     Surfactants
30  In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a surfactant. The microemulsion
    may comprise a single surfactant or a combination of two or more surfactants. For
    example, in some embodiments, the surfactant comprises a first type of surfactant and a
    second type of surfactant. The term surfactant, as used herein, is given its ordinary

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    meaning in the art and refers to compounds having an amphiphilic structure which gives
    them a specific affinity for oil/water-type and water/oil-type interfaces which helps the
    compounds to reduce the free energy of these interfaces and to stabilize the dispersed
    phase of a microemulsion. The term surfactant encompasses cationic surfactants, anionic
 5  surfactants, amphoteric surfactants, nonionic surfactants, zwitterionic surfactants, and
    mixtures thereof. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a nonionic surfactant. Nonionic
    surfactants generally do not contain any charges. Amphoteric surfactants generally have
    both positive and negative charges, however, the net charge of the surfactant can be
    positive, negative, or neutral, depending on the pH of the solution. Anionic surfactants
10  generally possess a net negative charge. Cationic surfactants generally possess a net
    positive charge. Zwitterionic surfactants are generally not pH dependent. A zwitterion is
    a neutral molecule with a positive and a negative electrical charge, though multiple
    positive and negative charges can be present. Zwitterions are distinct from dipole, at
    different locations within that molecule.
15           In some embodiments, the surfactant is an amphiphilic block copolymer where
    one block is hydrophobic and one block is hydrophilic. In some cases, the total
    molecular weight of the polymer is greater than 5000 daltons. The hydrophilic block of
    these polymers can be nonionic, anionic, cationic, amphoteric, or zwitterionic.
             The term surface energy, as used herein, is given its ordinary meaning in the art
20  and refers to the extent of disruption of intermolecular bonds that occur when the surface
    is created (e.g., the energy excess associated with the surface as compared to the bulk).
    Generally, surface energy is also referred to as surface tension (e.g., for liquid-gas
    interfaces) or interfacial tension (e.g., for liquid-liquid interfaces). As will be understood
    by those skilled in the art, surfactants generally orient themselves across the interface to
25  minimize the extent of disruption of intermolecular bonds (i.e. lower the surface energy).
    Typically, a surfactant at an interface between polar and non-polar phases orient
    themselves at the interface such that the difference in polarity is minimized.
             Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of methods and techniques for
    selecting surfactants for use in the microemulsions described herein. In some cases, the
30  surfactant(s) are matched to and/or optimized for the particular oil or solvent in use. In
    some embodiments, the surfactant(s) are selected by mapping the phase behavior of the
    microemulsion and choosing the surfactant(s) that gives the desired range of phase
    behavior. In some cases, the stability of the microemulsion over a wide range of

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    temperatures is targeted as the microemulsion may be subject to a wide range of
    temperatures due to the environmental conditions present at the subterranean formation
    and/or reservoir.
            The surfactant may be present in the microemulsion in any suitable amount. In
 5  some embodiments, the surfactant is present in an amount between about 0 wt% and
    about 99 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 90 wt%, or between about 0 wt% and
    about 60 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and
    about 60 wt%, or between about 10 wt% and about 60 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and
    about 65 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 55 wt%, or between about 10 wt% and
10  about 55 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and about 50 wt%, or between about 0 wt% and
    about 40 wt%, or between about 15 wt% and about 55 wt%, or between about 20 wt%
    and about 50 wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
            Suitable surfactants for use with the compositions and methods described herein
    will be known in the art. In some embodiments, the surfactant is an alkyl polyglycol
15  ether, for example, having 2-250 ethylene oxide (EO) (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100,
    or 2-50, or 2-40) units and alkyl groups of 4-20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the
    surfactant is an alkylaryl polyglycol ether having 2-250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2
    150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40) and 8-20 carbon atoms in the alkyl and aryl groups. In
    some embodiments, the surfactant is an ethylene oxide/propylene oxide (EO/PO) block
20  copolymer having 2-250 EO or PO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or
    2-40). In some embodiments, the surfactant is a fatty acid polyglycol ester having 6-24
    carbon atoms and 2-250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In
    some embodiments, the surfactant is a polyglycol ether of hydroxyl-containing
    triglycerides (e.g., castor oil). In some embodiments, the surfactant is an
25  alkylpolyglycoside of the general formula R"--O--Z., where R" denotes a linear or
    branched, saturated or unsaturated alkyl group having on average 8-24 carbon atoms and
    Z. denotes an oligoglycoside group having on average n=1-10 hexose or pentose units or
    mixtures thereof. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a fatty ester of glycerol,
    sorbitol, or pentaerythritol. In some embodiments, the surfactant is an amine oxide (e.g.,
30  dodecyldimethylamine oxide). In some embodiments, the surfactant is an alkyl sulfate,
    for example having a chain length of 8-18 carbon atoms, alkyl ether sulfates having
    8-18 carbon atoms in the hydrophobic group and 1-40 ethylene oxide (EO) or propylene
    oxide (PO) units. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a sulfonate, for example, an

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    alkyl sulfonate having 8-18 carbon atoms, an alkylaryl sulfonate having 8-18 carbon
    atoms, an ester or half ester of sulfosuccinic acid with monohydric alcohols or
    alkylphenols having 4-15 carbon atoms, or a multisulfonate (e.g., comprising two, three,
    four, or more, sulfonate groups). In some cases, the alcohol or alkylphenol can also be
 5  ethoxylated with 1-250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In
    some embodiments, the surfactant is an alkali metal salt or ammonium salt of a
    carboxylic acid or poly(alkylene glycol) ether carboxylic acid having 8-20 carbon atoms
    in the alkyl, aryl, alkaryl or aralkyl group and 1-250 EO or PO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2
    150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In some embodiments, the surfactant is a partial
10  phosphoric ester or the corresponding alkali metal salt or ammonium salt, e.g., an alkyl
    and alkaryl phosphate having 8-20 carbon atoms in the organic group, an alkylether
    phosphate or alkarylether phosphate having 8-20 carbon atoms in the alkyl or alkaryl
    group and 1-250 EO units (e.g., or 2-200, or 2-150, or 2-100, or 2-50, or 2-40). In some
    embodiments, the surfactant is a salt of primary, secondary, or tertiary fatty amine
15  having 8-24 carbon atoms with acetic acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, and
    phosphoric acid. In some embodiments, the surfactant is a quaternary alkyl- and
    alkylbenzylammonium salt, whose alkyl groups have 1-24 carbon atoms (e.g., a halide,
    sulfate, phosphate, acetate, or hydroxide salt). In some embodiments, the surfactant is an
    alkylpyridinium, an alkylimidazolinium, or an alkyloxazolinium salt whose alkyl chain
20  has up to 18 carbons atoms (e.g., a halide, sulfate, phosphate, acetate, or hydroxide salt).
    In some embodiments, the surfactant is amphoteric or zwitterionic, including sultaines
    (e.g., cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine), betaines (e.g., cocamidopropyl betaine), or
    phosphates (e.g., lecithin). Non-limiting examples of specific surfactants include a linear
    Cp-C 15 ethoxylated alcohols with 5-12 moles of EO, lauryl alcohol ethoxylate with 4-8
25  moles of EO, nonyl phenol ethoxylate with 5-9 moles of EO, octyl phenol ethoxylate
    with 5-9 moles of EO, tridecyl alcohol ethoxylate with 5-9 moles of EO, Pluronic@
    matrix of EO/PO copolymers, ethoxylated cocoamide with 4-8 moles of EO, ethoxylated
    coco fatty acid with 7-11 moles of EO, and cocoamidopropyl amine oxide.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant is a siloxane surfactant as described in U.S.
30  Patent Application Serial No. 13/831,410, filed March 14, 2014, herein incorporated by
    reference.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant is a Gemini surfactant. Gemini surfactants
    generally have the structure of multiple amphiphilic molecules linked together by one or

   WO 2014/153102                                                         PCT/US2014/029079
    more covalent spacers. In some embodiments, the surfactant is an extended surfactant,
    wherein the extended surfactats has the structure where a non-ionic hydrophilic spacer
    (e.g. ethylene oxide or propylene oxide) connects an ionic hydrophilic group (e.g.
    carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate).
 5           In some embodiments the surfactant is an alkoxylated polyimine with a relative
    solubility number (RSN) in the range of 5-20. As will be known to those of ordinary skill
    in the art, RSN values are generally determined by titrating water into a solution of
    surfactant in 1,4dioxane. The RSN values is generally defined as the amount of distilled
    water necessary to be added to produce persistent turbidity. In some embodiments the
10  surfactant is an alkoxylated novolac resin (also known as a phenolic resin) with a relative
    solubility number in the range of 5-20. In some embodiments the surfactant is a block
    copolymer surfactant with a total molecular weight greater than 5000 daltons. The block
    copolymer may have a hydrophobic block that is comprised of a polymer chain that is
    linear, branched, hyperbranched, dendritic or cyclic. Non-limiting examples of
15  monomeric repeat units in the hydrophobic chains of block copolymer surfactants are
    isomers of acrylic, methacrylic, styrenic, isoprene, butadiene, acrylamide, ethylene,
    propylene and norbomene. The block copolymer may have a hydrophilic block that is
    comprised of a polymer chain that is linear, branched, hyper branched, dendritic or
    cyclic. Non-limiting examples of monomeric repeat units in the hydrophilic chains of the
20  block copolymer surfactants are isomers of acrylic acid, maleic acid, methacrylic acid,
    ethylene oxide, and acrylamine.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant has a structure as in Formula I:
                                                             R8
                                                  R7                   R9
                            R12o
                                                                          1
                                                               R1R10
    wherein each of R7, R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
25  the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
    Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7, R', R', R4, and R" is -CH=CHAr, R1
    is hydrogen or alkyl, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2. In some

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    embodiments, Ar is phenyl. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is
    hydrogen or C1 _6 alkyl. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is H,
    methyl, or ethyl. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is H.
             In some embodiments, the surfactant has a structure as in Formula II:
                                                           R8
                                                R7                    R9
                                                      O               R10
 5                                                         R(
    wherein each of R7, R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
    Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7, R', R9 , R14, and R" is -CH=CHAr, Y- is
    an anionic group, X_ is a cationic group, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2.
10  In some embodiments, Ar is phenyl. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula
    (II), X_ is a metal cation or N(R13 )4 , wherein each R13 is independently selected from the
    group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, or optionally substituted aryl.
    In some embodiments, X+ is NH4 . Non-limiting examples of metal cations are Na, K,
    Mg+2 , and Ca+2 . In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (II), Y is -0-,
15  S0 2 0-, or -OS0  20-.
              In some embodiments, the surfactant has a structure as in Formula III:
                                                         R8
                                              R7                    R9
                                 Z                                  R10
    wherein each of R7, R', R', R   4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
20  Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7, R', R', R"4, and R" is -CH=CHAr, Z+ is
    a cationic group, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2. In some embodiments,

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    Ar is phenyl. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (III), ZV is N(R13 ) 3 ,
    wherein each R13 is independent selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
    optionally substituted alkyl, or optionally substituted aryl.
              In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), two of R7 , R',
 5  R9 , R1 4, and R" are -CH=CHAr. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I),
    (II), or (III), one of R7, R', R , R 14, and R11 is -CH=CHAr and each of the other groups is
    hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), two of R 7 ,
    R8, R9, R14, and R" are -CH=CHAr and each of the other groups is hydrogen. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), R7 and R8 are -CH=CHAr
10  and R9, R 10 , and R" are each hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of
    Formula (I), (II), or (III), three of R7 , R', R9, R 10 , and R" are -CH=CHAr and each of
    the other groups is hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II),
    or (III), R7, R8 , and R9 are -CH=CHAr and R 10 and R" are each hydrogen. In
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), Ar is phenyl. In some
15  embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), each m is 1. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), each m is 2. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), n is 6-100, or 1-50, or 6-50,
    or 6-25, or 1-25, or 5-50, or 5-25, or 5-20.
              In some embodiments, an emulsion or microemulsion comprises a surfactant of
20  Formula (I), (II), or (III) in an amount between about 1 wt% and about 20 wt%, or
    between about 3 wt% and about 15 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 13 wt%, or
    between about 5 wt% and about 11 wt%, or between about 7 wt% and about 11 wt%, or
    between about 10 wt% and about 12 wt%, or between about 8 wt% and about 12 wt%, or
    between about 8 wt% and about 10 wt%, or about 9 wt%. In some embodiments, the
25  emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to the surfactant of Formula (I), (II),
    or (III), water and a non-aqueous phase (e.g., a terpene), and optionally other additives
    (e.g., one or more additional surfactants, an alcohol, a freezing point depression agent,
    etc.). In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to the
    surfactant of Formula (I), (II), or (III), water, a terpene, an alcohol, one or more
30  additional surfactants, and optionally other additives (e.g., a freezing point depression
    agent). In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to
    the surfactant of Formula (I), (II), or (III), between about 20 wt% and 90 wt% water,
    between about 2 wt% and about 70 wt% of one or more additional surfactants, between
                                                   -  /IA -

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
    about 1 wt% and about 80 wt% of a solvent (e.g., terpene), and between about 10 wt%
    and about 40 wt% of a mutual solvent (e.g., alcohol). In some embodiments, the
    emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to the surfactant of Formula (I), (II),
    or (III), between about 10 wt% and 80 wt% water, between about 2 wt% and about 80
 5  wt% of one or more additional surfactants, between about 1 wt% and about 70 wt% of a
    solvent (e.g., terpene), and between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt% of a mutual solvent
    (e.g., alcohol). In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in
    addition to the surfactant of Formula (I), (II), or (III), between about 20 wt% and 90 wt%
    water, between about 2 wt% and about 70 wt% of one or more additional surfactants,
10  between about 1 wt% and about 78 wt% of a solvent (e.g., terpene), and between about
    22 wt% and about 40 wt% of a mutual solvent (e.g., alcohol). Non-limiting examples of
    surfactants of Formula (I), (II), or (III) include styrylphenol ethoxylate, a tristyrylphenol
    ethoxylate, a styrylphenol propoxylate, a tristyrylphenol propoxylate, a styrylphenol
    ethoxylate propoxylate, or a tristyrylphenol ethoxylate propoxylate.
15
    I-D.     Additives
             In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion may comprise one or more
    additives in addition to water, solvent (e.g., one or more types of solvents), and
    surfactant (e.g., one or more types of surfactants). In some embodiments, the additive is
20  an alcohol, a freezing point depression agent, an acid, a salt, a proppant, a scale inhibitor,
    a friction reducer, a biocide, a corrosion inhibitor, a buffer, a viscosifier, a clay swelling
    inhibitor, an oxygen scavenger, and/or a clay stabilizer.
    I-DJ. Alcohol
25           In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises an alcohol. The alcohol may
    serve as a coupling agent between the solvent and the surfactant and aid in the
    stabilization of the microemulsion. The alcohol may also lower the freezing point of the
    microemulsion. The microemulsion may comprise a single alcohol or a combination of
    two or more alcohols. In some embodiments, the alcohol is selected from primary,
30  secondary -andtertiary alcohols having between I and 20 carbon atoms. In some
    embodiments, the alcohol comprises a first type of alcohol and a second type of alcohol.
    Non-limiting examples of alcohols include methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, n-propanol,

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    n-butanol, i-butanol, sec-butanol, iso-butanol, and t-butanol. In some embodiments, the
    alcohol is ethanol or isopropanol. In some embodiments, the alcohol is isopropanol.
            The alcohol may be present in the emulsion in any suitable amount. In some
    embodiments, the alcohol is present in an amount between about 0 wt% and about 50
 5  wt%, or between about 0.1 wt% and about 50 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about
    50 wt%, or between about 2 wt% and about 50 wt% or between about 5 wt% and about
    40 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and 35 wt%, versus the total microemulsion
    composition.
10  I-D2. Freezing Point Depression Agents
            In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a freezing point depression
    agent. The microemulsion may comprise a single freezing point depression agent or a
    combination of two or more freezing point depression agents. For example, in some
    embodiments, the freezing point depression agent comprises a first type of freezing point
15  depression agent and a second type of freezing point depression agent. The term freezing
    point depression agent is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a compound
    which is added to a solution to reduce the freezing point of the solution. That is, a
    solution comprising the freezing point depression agent has a lower freezing point as
    compared to an essentially identical solution not comprising the freezing point
20  depression agent. Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of suitable freezing
    point depression agents for use in the microemulsions described herein. Non-limiting
    examples of freezing point depression agents include primary, secondary, and tertiary
    alcohols with between 1 and 20 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the alcohol
    comprises at least 2 carbon atoms, alkylene glycols including polyalkylene glycols, and
25  salts. Non-limiting examples of alcohols include methanol, ethanol, i-propanol,
    n-propanol, t-butanol, n-butanol, n-pentanol, n-hexanol, and 2-ethyl-hexanol. In some
    embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is not methanol (e.g., due to toxicity).
    Non-limiting examples of alkylene glycols include ethylene glycol (EG), polyethylene
    glycol (PEG), propylene glycol (PG), and triethylene glycol (TEG). In some
30  embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is not ethylene oxide (e.g., due to
    toxicity). In some embodiments, the freezing point depression agent comprises an
    alcohol and an alkylene glycol. In some embodiments, the freezing point depression
    agent comprises a carboxycyclic acid salt and/or a di-carboxycylic acid salt. Another

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    non-limiting example of a freezing point depression agent is a combination of choline
    chloride and urea. In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprising the freezing
    point depression agent is stable over a wide range of temperatures, for example, between
    about -50 'F to 200 'F.
 5          The freezing point depression agent may be present in the microemulsion in any
    suitable amount. In some embodiments, the freezing point depression agent is present in
    an amount between about 0 wt% and about 70 wt%, or between about 0.5 and 30 wt%,
    or between about 1 wt% and about 40 wt%, or between about 0 wt% and about 25 wt%,
    or between about 1 wt% and about 25 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 20 wt%,
10  or between about 3 wt% and about 20 wt%, or between about 8 wt% and about 16 wt%,
    versus the total microemulsion composition.
    I-E. Other Additives
            In addition to the alcohol and the freezing point depression agent, the
15  microemulsion may comprise other additives. For example, the microemulsion may
    comprise an acid and/or a salt. Further non-limiting examples of other additives include
    proppants, scale inhibitors, friction reducers, biocides, corrosion inhibitors, buffers,
    viscosifiers, clay swelling inhibitors, paraffin dispersing additives, asphaltene dispersing
    additives, and oxygen scavengers.
20          Non-limiting examples of proppants (e.g., propping agents) include grains of
    sand, glass beads, crystalline silica (e.g., Quartz), hexamethylenetetramine, ceramic
    proppants (e.g., calcined clays), resin coated sands, and resin coated ceramic proppants.
    Other proppants are also possible and will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of scale inhibitors include one or more of methyl alcohol,
25  organic phosphonic acid salts (e.g., phosphonate salt), polyacrylate, ethane-1,2-diol,
    calcium chloride, and sodium hydroxide. Other scale inhibitors are also possible and will
    be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of buffers include acetic acid, acetic anhydride, potassium
    hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, and sodium acetate. Other buffers are also possible and
30  will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of corrosion inhibitors include isopropanol, quaternary
    ammonium compounds, thiourea/formaldehyde copolymers, propargyl alcohol and

   WO 2014/153102                                                         PCT/US2014/029079
    methanol. Other corrosion inhibitors are also possible and will be known to those skilled
    in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of biocides include didecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride,
    gluteral, Dazomet, bronopol, tributyl tetradecyl phosphonium chloride, tetrakis
 5  (hydroxymethyl) phosphonium sulfate, AQUCAR TM , UCARCIDE TM, glutaraldehyde,
    sodium hypochlorite, and sodium hydroxide. Other biocides are also possible and will be
    known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of clay swelling inhibitors include quaternary ammonium
    chloride and tetramethylammonium chloride. Other clay swelling inhibitors are also
10  possible and will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of friction reducers include petroleum distillates,
    ammonium salts, polyethoxylated alcohol surfactants, and anionic polyacrylamide
    copolymers. Other friction reducers are also possible and will be known to those skilled
    in the art.
15          Non-limiting examples of oxygen scavengers include sulfites, and bisulfites.
    Other oxygen scavengers are also possible and will be known to those skilled in the art.
            Non-limiting examples of paraffin dispersing additives and asphaltene dispersing
    additives include active acidic copolymers, active alkylated polyester, active alkylated
    polyester amides, active alkylated polyester imides, aromatic naphthas, and active amine
20  sulfonates. Other paraffin dispersing additives are also possible and will be known to
    those skilled in the art.
            In some embodiments, for the formulations above, the other additives are present
    in an amount between about 0 wt% about 70 wt%, or between about 0 wt % and about 30
    wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 30 wt%, or between about 1 wt% and about 25
25  wt%, or between about 1 and about 20 wt%, versus the total microemulsion composition.
    I-El. Acids
            In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises an acid or an acid precursor.
    For example, the microemulsion may comprise an acid when used during acidizing
30  operations. The microemulsion may comprise a single acid or a combination of two or
    more acids. For example, in some embodiments, the acid comprises a first type of acid
    and a second type of acid. Non-limiting examples of acids or di-acids include
    hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, formic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, malic acid, lactic
                                               - IQ2 -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    acid, and hydrochloric-hydrofluoric acids. In some embodiments, the microemulsion
    comprises an organic acid or organic di-acid in the ester (or di-ester) form, whereby the
    ester (or diester) is hydrolyzed in the wellbore and/or reservoir to form the parent organic
    acid and an alcohol in the wellbore and/or reservoir. Non-limiting examples of esters or
 5  di-esters include isomers of methyl formate, ethyl formate, ethylene glycol diformate,
    a,a-4-trimethyl-3-cyclohexene-1-methylformate, methyl lactate, ethyl lactate, a,a-4
    trimethyl 3-cyclohexene-1-methyllactate, ethylene glycol dilactate, ethylene glycol
    diacetate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, a,a,-4-trimethyl-3-cyclohexene-1-methylacetate,
    dimethyl succinate, dimethyl maleate, di(a,a-4-trimethyl-3-cyclohexene-1
10  methyl)succinate, 1-methyl-4-(1-methylethenyl)-cyclohexylformate, 1-methyl-4-(1
    ethylethenyl)cyclohexylactate, 1-methyl-4-(1-methylethenyl)cyclohexylacetate, di(1
    methy-4-(1 -methylethenyl)cyclohexyl)succinate.
    I-E2. Salts
15           In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a salt. The presence of the
    salt may reduce the amount of water needed as a carrier fluid, and in addition, may lower
    the freezing point of the microemulsion. The microemulsion may comprise a single salt
    or a combination of two or more salts. For example, in some embodiments, the salt
    comprises a first type of salt and a second type of salt. Non-limiting examples of salts
20  include salts comprising K, Na, Br, Cr, Cs, or Li, for example, halides of these metals,
    including NaCl, KCl, CaCl 2 , and MgCl 2.
             In some embodiments, the microemulsion comprises a clay stabilizer. The
    microemulsion may comprise a single clay stabilizer or a combination of two or more
    clay stabilizers. For example, in some embodiments, the salt comprises a first type of
25  clay stabilizer and a second type of clay stabilizer. Non-limiting examples of clay
    stabilizers include salts above, polymers (PAC, PHPA, etc), glycols, sulfonated asphalt,
    lignite, sodium silicate, and choline chloride.
    I-F.     Formation and Use ofMicroemulsions
30           In some embodiments, the components of the microemulsion and/or the amounts
    of the components are selected such that the microemulsion is stable over a wide-range
    of temperatures. For example, the microemulsion may exhibit stability between about
    -40 *F and about 400 *F, or between about -40 *F and about 300 *F or between about

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    -40 *F and about 150 *F. Those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of methods and
    techniques for determining the range of stability of the microemulsion. For example, the
    lower boundary may be determined by the freezing point and the upper boundary may be
    determined by the cloud point and/or using spectroscopy methods. Stability over a wide
 5  range of temperatures may be important in embodiments where the microemulsions are
    being employed in applications comprising environments wherein the temperature may
    vary significantly, or may have extreme highs (e.g., desert) or lows (e.g., artic).
              The microemulsions described herein may be formed using methods known to
    those of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, the aqueous and non-aqueous
10  phases may be combined (e.g., the water and the solvent(s)), followed by addition of a
    surfactant(s) and optionally (e.g., freezing point depression agent(s)) and agitation. The
    strength, type, and length of the agitation may be varied as known in the art depending
    on various factors including the components of the microemulsion, the quantity of the
    microemulsion, and the resulting type of microemulsion formed. For example, for small
15  samples, a few seconds of gentle mixing can yield a microemulsion, whereas for larger
    samples, longer agitation times and/or stronger agitation may be required. Agitation may
    be provided by any suitable source, for example, a vortex mixer, a stirrer (e.g., magnetic
    stirrer), etc.
              Any suitable method for injecting the microemulsion (e.g., a diluted
20  microemulsion) into a wellbore may be employed. For example, in some embodiments,
    the microemulsion, optionally diluted, may be injected into a subterranean formation by
    injecting it into a well or wellbore in the zone of interest of the formation and thereafter
    pressurizing it into the formation for the selected distance. Methods for achieving the
    placement of a selected quantity of a mixture in a subterranean formation are known in
25  the art. The well may be treated with the microemulsion for a suitable period of time.
    The microemulsion and/or other fluids may be removed from the well using known
    techniques, including producing the well.
              It should be understood, that in embodiments where a microemulsion is said to be
    injected into a wellbore, that the microemulsion may be diluted and/or combined with
30  other liquid component(s) prior to and/or during injection (e.g., via straight tubing, via
    coiled tubing, etc.). For example, in some embodiments, the microemulsion is diluted
    with an aqueous carrier fluid (e.g., water, brine, sea water, fresh water, or a well
    treatment fluid (e.g., an acid, a fracturing fluid comprising polymers, produced water,
                                                  - At) -

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    sand, slickwater, etc.,)) prior to and/or during injection into the wellbore. In some
    embodiments, a composition for injecting into a wellbore is provided comprising a
    microemulsion as described herein and an aqueous carrier fluid, wherein the
    microemulsion is present in an amount between about 0.1 and about 50 gallons per
 5  thousand gallons (gpt) per dilution fluid, or between 0.1 and about 100 gpt, or between
    about 0.5 and about 10 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 2 gpt.
    II.      Applications of the Emulsions and/or Microemulsions Relating to the Life
    Cycle of a Well
10           The emulsions and microemulsions described herein may be used in various
    aspects of the life cycle of an oil and/or gas well, including, but not limited to, drilling,
    mud displacement, casing, cementing, perforating, stimulation, enhanced oil recovery/
    improved oil recovery, etc.). Inclusion of an emulsion or microemulsion into the fluids
    typically employed in these processes, for example, drilling fluids, mud displacement
15  fluids, casing fluids, cementing fluids, perforating fluid, stimulation fluids, kill fluids,
    etc., results in many advantages as compared to use of the fluid alone.
             Various aspects of the well life cycle are described in detail below. As will be
    understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, while certain steps of the life cycle
    described below are described in sequential order, this is by no means limiting, and the
20  steps may be carried out in a variety of orders. In addition, in some embodiments, each
    step may occur more than once in the life cycle of the well. For example, fracturing may
    be followed by stimulations, followed by additional fracturing steps. In some
    embodiments, refracturing, or the process of repeating the above stimulation processes,
    is further improved by the addition of an emulsion or microemulsion to the stimulation
25  fluid.
    H-A.     Drilling
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, drilling to form wellbores typically
    requires the displacement (e.g., using a drill pipe and a drill bit) of reservoir material
30  (e.g., rock, sand, stone, or the like). Such drilling generally requires the use of certain
    drilling fluids which may, for example, lubricate and/or cool the drill bit, assist in the
    removal of earth (e.g., cuttings), create and/or balance hydrostatic head pressure (e.g., to
    prevent, for example, a collapse of the hole being formed by the drill bit, to control the
                                                  _A1  -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    flow of hydrocarbons and/or water into the wellbore, to decrease swelling of the
    surrounding reservoir material), and/or to control or prevent a kick (e.g., an explosive
    moving of drilling fluid back to the surface). Non-limiting examples of drilling fluids
    include water-based systems, oil-based systems (e.g., synthetic oil-based systems, low
 5  viscosity oils such as diesel, crude oil, etc.). In water-based systems, the water may
    comprise one or more additives, for example, salts (e.g., to form brine), solid particles,
    etc. In oil-based systems, the oil can comprise any oil including, by not limited to,
    mineral oil, esters, and alpha-olefins. In some embodiments, the drilling fluid comprises
    a foam or a mist. In certain embodiments, the drilling fluid is a water-based system. In
10  some embodiments, drilling fluids include one or more minerals or additives (e.g.,
    hematite, montmorillionite, barite, bentonite, ilmenite, lignite, lignosulfonate, slacked
    lime, sodium hydroxide, etc.).
             In some embodiments, the drilling fluid comprises an emulsion or
    microemulsion. Emulsions and microemulsions are described in more detail herein. The
15  addition of an additional emulsion or microemulsion in the drilling fluid may have many
    advantages as compared to the use of a drilling fluid alone, including, for example,
    decreasing the swelling of the surrounding reservoir, changing (e.g., increasing or
    decreasing) the viscosity of the drilling fluid, decreasing the amount of water absorbed
    into the well during the drilling process, increasing the amount of water extracted from
20  the reservoir, changing (e.g., increasing and/or decreasing) the amount of contaminants
    and/or particulates extracted from the reservoir, and/or increasing the amount of oil
    and/or gas extracted from the reservoir. In some embodiments, the oil and/or gas
    comprises an oil and/or gas condensate. As will be known to those of ordinary skill in the
    art, in some cases, the composition of a drilling fluid may change during the process of
25  drilling.
             As will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art, imbibition is a nearly
    instantaneous process that occurs when water comes in contact with the exposed primary
    permeability of, for example, water wet shales and/or clays. This exposed primary
    permeability may be on the face of the drilled cuttings and borehole wall and/or along
30  the faces of the naturally occurring micro-fractures (secondary permeability). In the case
    of secondary permeability, the overall depth of invasion into the formation may be
    directly related to the depth of the micro-fractures and the volume of whole water base
    fluid and/or filtrate allowed to imbibe into the micro-fractures. The speed of invasion of
                                                  - A') -

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    the available water base fluid or filtrate into the secondary permeability is generally
    related to the primary permeability features of capillary diameters and degree of
    saturation of the shales and/or clays. The addition of an emulsion or microemulsion in
    the drilling fluid may have advantages as compared to the use of a drilling fluid alone,
 5  including, for example, the controlling imbibition (e.g., prevention, reduction, or increase
    of imbibition).
             In some embodiments, the drilling fluid comprises an emulsion or microemulsion
    as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an amount
    between about 0.5 and about 200 gallons per thousand gallons (gpt) of drilling fluid, or
10  between about 0.5 and about 100 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between
    about 1 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and
    about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt.
    In certain embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an amount between
    about 5 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the drilling fluid contains at least about
15  0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2 gpt, or at least about 4 gpt, or at least
    about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least about 50 gpt, or at least about 100 gpt, or
    at least about 200 gpt, of an emulsion or a microemulsion. In some embodiments, the
    drilling fluid contains less than or equal to about 200 gpt, or less than or equal to about
    100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50 gpt, or less than or equal to about 20 gpt, or less
20  than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less than or equal to about 4 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or equal to about 0.5 gpt of
    an emulsion or microemulsion.
    H-B.     Mud Displacement
25           As will be known to those skilled in the art, generally following the drilling of a
    wellbore, techniques are utilized to stabilize the wellbore. Stabilizing the wellbore may
    include inserting a casing (e.g., metal sleeves, steel tubes, and the like) down the
    wellbore. In some cases, a cement is injected in the annulus between the wellbore and
    casing to add further stability. Prior to injecting cement, additional fluids (e.g., a mud
30  displacement fluid) may be pushed between the casing and the wellbore sides to remove
    excess mud and/or filter cake. Generally, a mud displacement fluid refers to a fluid that
    displaces drilling mud. A mud displacement fluid is typically injected at high pressure
    into the inner core of the casing, and exits at the bottom of the casing, returning to the
                                                   - Al1 -

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    surface via the annular region between the casing and the sides of the wellbore.
    Alternatively, the mud displacement fluid may be injected at a high pressure between the
    casing and the sides of the wellbore and exits at the bottom of the casing, returning to the
    surface via the inner core of the casing. A non-limiting example of a mud displacement
 5  fluid includes a water-based system. In certain embodiments, the mud displacement fluid
    comprises water and one or more solvents, surfactants, and/or other additives known to
    those skilled in the art.
             In some embodiments, the mud displacement fluid comprises an emulsion or
    microemulsion. Emulsions and microemulsions are described in more detail herein. The
10  addition of an emulsion or microemulsion in the mud displacement fluid may have many
    advantages as compared to the use of a mud displacement fluid alone including, for
    example, preventing or minimizing damage from imbibition, assisting in liquification
    and removal of filter cakes, and/or preparing the hole for cementation. In addition, the
    presence of the emulsion or the microemulsion in the mud displacement fluid may result
15  in improved (e.g., increased) delivery of the fluid to portions of the well, which aids in
    displacing surface contamination, which can result in less imbibition, formation
    blockages, and/or improves surfaces for cementing.
             In some embodiments, the mud displacement fluid comprises an emulsion or
    microemulsion as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in
20  an amount between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of mud displacement fluid, or between
    about 0.5 and about 100 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1
    and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20
    gpt, or between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or
    between about 5 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion
25  is present in an amount between about 1 and about 4 gpt. In some embodiments, the mud
    displacement fluid contains at least about 0.5 gpt, at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2
    gpt, or at least about 4 gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least
    about 50 gpt, or at least about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt of an emulsion or a
    microemulsion. In some embodiments, the mud displacement fluid contains less than or
30  equal to about 200 gpt, or less than or equal to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 50 gpt, or less than or equal to about 20 gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt,
    or less than or equal to about 4 gpt, or less than or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or
                                                  - AA -

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or equal to about 0.5 gpt of an emulsion or
    microemulsion.
    H-C.    Cementing
 5          As described herein, and as will be known to those skilled in the art, generally
    following drilling a wellbore, cement is placed between the casing and the wellbore
    sides. At various stages of the cementing process (e.g., during preflush, during
    preliminary cementing, during remedial cementing, etc.), pieces of cement (e.g., cement
    particles, ground cement, etc.) may alter the reservoir material or fluid present in the
10  wellbore (e.g., gelling the mud such that the viscosity is significantly increased and
    rendering it generally unworkable), the viscosity of fluids injected into the wellbore,
    and/or the viscosity of fluids recovered from the wellbore. For example, following the
    cementing process, a portion of the cement (e.g., at the bottom of the well, also known as
    a cement plug) may be removed by drilling, thereby resulting in pieces of cement. The
15  pieces of cement may be removed via injection of a fluid (e.g., a cementing fluid) during
    and/or following the cementing process.
            In some embodiments, the cementing fluid comprises an emulsion or
    microemulsion. Emulsions and microemulsions are described in more detail herein. The
    addition of an emulsion or microemulsion in the cementing fluid may have many
20  advantages as compared to the use of a cementing fluid alone including, for example,
    reducing the viscosity of fluids containing cement particles.
            In some embodiments, the cementing fluid comprises an emulsion or
    microemulsion as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in
    an amount between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of cementing fluid, or between about 0.5
25  and about 50 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 100 gpt, or between about 1 and about
    50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20 gpt, or
    between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or between about
    5 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the cementing fluid contains at least about 0.5
    gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2 gpt, or at least about 4 gpt, or at least about
30  10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least about 50 gpt, or at least about 100 gpt, or at
    least about 200 gpt, of an emulsion or a microemulsion. In some embodiments, the
    cementing fluid contains less than or equal to about 200 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50 gpt, or less than or equal to about 20 gpt,

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less than or equal to about 4 gpt, or less than or
    equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or equal to about
    0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
 5  H-D. Perforating
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, generally following drilling and
    inserting a casing into a wellbore, perforating guns may be lowered into the wellbore to
    create holes between the interior of the casing and the surrounding reservoir material.
    Typically, perforating guns utilize liquid jets (e.g., hydrocutters) or explosives (e.g., an
10  expanding plume of gas) to send high velocity jets of fluid (e.g., a perforating fluid)
    between the gun and the casing to form holes of controlled size and depth into the casing,
    cement, and/or nearby reservoir material. During and/or following perforation, the
    perforating fluid generally flows into the areas formed by the perforating gun.
             In some embodiments, the perforating fluid comprises an emulsion or
15  microemulsion. Emulsions and microemulsions are described in more detail herein. The
    addition of an emulsion or microemulsion in the perforating fluid may have many
    advantages as compared to the use of a perforating fluid alone, including, for example,
    preventing or minimizing damage from imbibition, preventing the formation of new
    filter cakes (e.g., that may reduce hydrocarbons in the reservoir material from entering
20  the casing), and/or increasing the pressure differential between the wellbore and the
    surrounding reservoir material.
             In some embodiments, the perforating fluid comprises an emulsion or
    microemulsion as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in
    an amount between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of perforating fluid, or between about
25  0.5 and about 100 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and
    about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20 gpt,
    or between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or between
    about 5 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is
    present in an amount between about 1 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the
30  perforating fluid contains at least about 0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2
    gpt, or at least about 4 gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least
    about 50 gpt, or at least about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt of an emulsion or a
    microemulsion. In some embodiments, the perforating fluid contains less than or equal to
                                                  - AAA -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    about 200 gpt, or less than or equal to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50
    gpt, or less than or equal to about 20 gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less
    than or equal to about 4 gpt, or less than or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 1 gpt, or less than or equal to about 0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
 5
    II-E. Stimulation
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, generally the completion of the
    formation of wellbore includes stimulation and/or re-fracturing processes. The term
    stimulation generally refers to the treatment of geological formations to improve the
10  recovery of liquid hydrocarbons (e.g., formation crude oil and/or formation gas). The
    porosity and permeability of the formation determine its ability to store hydrocarbons,
    and the facility with which the hydrocarbons can be extracted from the formation.
    Common stimulation techniques include well fracturing (e.g., fracturing, hydraulic
    fracturing) and acidizing (e.g., fracture acidizing, matrix acidizing) operations.
15           Non-limiting examples of fracturing operations include hydraulic fracturing,
    which is commonly used to stimulate low permeability geological formations to improve
    the recovery of hydrocarbons. The process can involve suspending chemical agents in a
    stimulation fluid (e.g., fracturing fluid) and injecting the fluid down a wellbore. The
    fracturing fluid may be injected at high pressures and/or at high rates into a wellbore.
20  However, the assortment of chemicals pumped down the well can cause damage to the
    surrounding formation by entering the reservoir material and blocking pores. For
    example, one or more of the following may occur: wettability reversal, emulsion
    blockage, aqueous-filtrate blockage, mutual precipitation of soluble salts in wellbore
    fluid filtrate and formation water, deposition of paraffins or asphaltenes, condensate
25  banking, bacterial plugging, and/or gas breakout. In addition, fluids may become trapped
    in the formation due to capillary end effects in and around the vicinity of the formation
    fractures. The addition of an emulsion or microemulsion in the fracturing fluid may have
    many advantages as compared to the use of a fracturing fluid alone, including, for
    example, maximizing the transfer and/or recovery of injected fluids, increasing oil and/or
30  gas recovery, and/or other benefits described herein.
             Non-limiting examples of acidizing operations include the use of water-based
    fluids to remove drilling fluids and particles remaining in the wellbore to permit optimal
    flow feeding into the wellbore (e.g., matrix acidizing). Matrix acidizing generally refers
                                                 - A'7 -

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    to the formation of wormholes (e.g., pores or channels through which oil, gas, and/or
    other fluids can flow) through the use of a fluid (e.g., acidic stimulation fluid)
    comprising, for example, an acid, wherein the wormholes are continuous channels and
    holes formed in the reservoir of a controlled size and depth. The addition of an emulsion
 5  or microemulsion to the stimulation fluid may have many advantages as compared to the
    use of a stimulation fluid alone, including, for example, the formation of an acidic gel
    (e.g., which creates a more uniform distribution of acid across the reservoir materials as
    it travels along the surface), increasing oil and/or gas recovery, and/or other benefits
    described herein.
10           Fracture acidizing generally refers to the use of an acid to extend fractures
    formed by the injection of treatment fluid at high-pressure (e.g., fracturing). The addition
    of an emulsion or microemulsion to the stimulation fluid may have advantages as
    compared to the use of a stimulation fluid alone, including, for example, increasing the
    removal of fracturing fluid skin (e.g., fluid and solids from the reservoir which may
15  block optimal flow of the wellbore) from the fractures allowing for more effective acid
    treatment.
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, stimulation fluids (e.g., acidizing
    fluids, fracturing fluids, etc.) may be injected into the wellbore to assist in the removal of
    leftover drilling fluids or reservoir materials. Non-limiting examples of stimulation fluids
20  (e.g., as an acidizing fluid) include water and hydrochloric acid (e.g., 15% HCl in water).
    In some embodiments, the acid is partially or completely consumed after reacting with
    carbonates in the reservoir. Further non-limiting examples of stimulation fluids include
    conventional fluids (e.g., gelling agents comprising crosslinking agents such as borate,
    zirconate, and/or titanate), water fracture fluids (e.g., friction reducers, gelling agents,
25  viscoelastic surfactants), hybrid fluids (e.g., friction reducers, gelling agents, viscoelastic
    surfactants, and combinations thereof), energized fluids (e.g., foam generating energizers
    comprising nitrogen or carbon dioxide), acid fracture fluids (e.g., gelled acid base fluids),
    gas fracture fluids (e.g., propane), and matrix acidizing fluids (e.g., an acid).
             In some embodiments, the stimulation fluid comprises a viscosifier (e.g., guar
30  gum) and/or a bridging agent (e.g., calcium carbonate, size salt, oil-soluble resins, mica,
    ground cellulose, nutshells, and other fibers). In some embodiments, removal of leftover
    drilling fluids or reservoir fluids refers to the breakdown and removal of a near-wellbore
    skin (e.g., fluid and solids from the reservoir which may block optimal flow into the

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    wellbore). Non-limiting examples of skin materials include paraffin, asphaltene, drilling
    mud components (e.g., barite, clays), non-mobile oil in place, and fines (e.g., which may
    block pores in the reservoir material). The addition of an emulsion or microemulsion to
    the acidizing fluid may have many advantages as compared to the use of a acidizing fluid
 5  alone, including, for example, increasing the breakdown of the skin into smaller
    components to be more easily removed by flow from the wellbore, increasing oil and/or
    gas recovery, and/or other benefits described herein.
            In addition to some of the benefits described above, in some embodiments,
    incorporation of an emulsion or a microemulsion into a stimulation fluid can aid in
10  reducing fluid trapping, for example, by reducing capillary pressure and/or minimizing
    capillary end effects, as compared to the use of a stimulation fluid alone. In addition,
    incorporation of an emulsion or microemulsion into stimulation fluids can promote
    increased flow back of aqueous phases following well treatment, increasing production
    of liquid and/or gaseous hydrocarbons, and/or increasing the displacement of residual
15  fluids (e.g., drilling fluids, etc.) by formation crude oil and/or formation gas. Other non
    limiting advantages as compared to the use of a stimulation fluid alone, include
    increasing the amount of water extracted from the reservoir, increasing the amount or oil
    and/or gas extracted from the reservoir, more uniformly distributing the acid along the
    surface of the wellbore and/or reservoir, improving the formation of wormholes (e.g., by
20  slowing down the reaction rate to create deeper and more extensive wormholes during
    fracture acidizing). In certain embodiments, the addition of an emulsion or
    microemulsion increases the amount of hydrocarbons transferred from the reservoir to
    fluids injected into the reservoir during hydraulic fracturing.
            In some embodiments, the stimulation fluid comprises an emulsion or
25  microemulsion as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in
    an amount between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of stimulation fluid, or between about
    0.5 and about 100 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and
    about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20 gpt,
    or between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or between
30  about 5 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is
    present in an amount between about 2 and about 5 gpt. In some embodiments, the
    stimulation fluid contains at least about 0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2
    gpt, or at least about 4 gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least
                                                   - AO -

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    about 50 gpt, or at least about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt, of an emulsion or a
    microemulsion. In some embodiments, the stimulation fluid contains less than or equal to
    about 200 gpt, or less than or equal to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50
    gpt, or less than or equal to about 20 gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less
 5  than or equal to about 4 gpt, or less than or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 1 gpt, or less than or equal to about 0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
             In some embodiments, refracturing, or the process of repeating the above
    stimulation processes, is further improved by the addition of an emulsion or
    microemulsion to the stimulation fluid.
10           In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion for use with a stimulation
    fluid (e.g., a fracturing fluid) comprising a surfactant as in Formula I:
                                                              R8
                                                   R7                     R9
                              R 12o
                                                                            1
                                                                 R1R10
    wherein each of R7, R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
15  Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7, R', R', R4, and R" is -CH=CHAr, R1
    is hydrogen or alkyl, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is hydrogen or C1 _6 alkyl. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is H, methyl, or ethyl. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), R12 is H.
20           In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion for use with a stimulation
    fluid (e.g., a fracturing fluid) comprising a surfactant as in Formula II:

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
                                                           R8
                                               R7                     R9
                           oe
                                                O                     R10
                                                           R"
    wherein each of R7, R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
    Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7, R', R9 , R14, and R" is -CH=CHAr, Y- is
 5  an anionic group, X_ is a cationic group, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2.
    In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (II), X_ is a metal cation or N(R1)4,
    wherein each R13 is independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen,
    optionally substituted alkyl, or optionally substituted aryl. In some embodiments, X_ is
    NH 4 . Non-limiting examples of metal cations are Na, K, Mg+2 , and Ca+2 . In some
10  embodiments, for a compound of Formula (II), Y is -0-, -S0 2 0-, or -OS0      2 0-.
             In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion for use with a stimulation
    fluid (e.g., a fracturing fluid) comprising a surfactant as in Formula III:
                                                         R8
                                             R7                     R9
                                     H        O                     R10
                                                         R"
15  wherein each of R7, R', R9 , R4, and R" are the same or different and are selected from
    the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr, wherein
    Ar is an aryl group, provided at least one of R7, R', R9 , R14, and R11 is -CH=CHAr, Z+ is
    a cationic group, n is 1-100, and each m is independently 1 or 2. In some embodiments,
    for a compound of Formula (III), Z+ is N(R1 3 )3 , wherein each R13 is independent selected
20  from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, or optionally
    substituted aryl.

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
               In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), two of R7 , R',
    R9 , R 10 , and R11 are -CH=CHAr. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I),
    (II), or (III), one of R7, R', R9, R 10 , and R11 is -CH=CHAr and each of the other groups is
    hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), two of R 7 ,
 5  R', R9, R14, and R" are -CH=CHAr and each of the other groups is hydrogen. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), R7 and R8 are -CH=CHAr
    and R9, R 10 , and R" are each hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of
    Formula (I), (II), or (III), three of R7 , R', R9, R 10 , and R" are -CH=CHAr and each of
    the other groups is hydrogen. In some embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II),
10  or (III), R7, R', and R9 are -CH=CHAr and R 10 and R" are each hydrogen. In
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), Ar is phenyl. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), each m is 1. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), each m is 2. In some
    embodiments, for a compound of Formula (I), (II), or (III), n is 6-100, or 1-50, or 6-50,
15  or 6-25, or 1-25, or 5-50, or 5-25, or 5-20.
               In some embodiments, an emulsion or microemulsion comprises a surfactant of
    Formula (I), (II), or (III) in an amount between about 1 wt% and about 20 wt%, or
    between about 3 wt% and about 15 wt%, or between about 5 wt% and about 13 wt%, or
    between about 5 wt% and about 11 wt%, or between about 7 wt% and about 11 wt%, or
20  between about 10 wt% and about 12 wt%, or between about 8 wt% and about 12 wt%, or
    between about 8 wt% and about 10 wt%, or about 9 wt%. In some embodiments, the
    emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to the surfactant of Formula (I), (II),
    or (III), water and a non-aqueous phase (e.g., a terpene), and optionally other additives
    (e.g., one or more additional surfactants, an alcohol, a freezing point depression agent,
25  etc.). In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to the
    surfactant of Formula (I), (II), or (III), water, a terpene, an alcohol, one or more
    additional surfactants, and optionally other additives (e.g., a freezing point depression
    agent). In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to
    the surfactant of Formula (I), (II), or (III), between about 20 wt% and 90 wt% water,
30  between about 2 wt% and about 70 wt% of one or more additional surfactants, between
    about 1 wt% and about 80 wt% of a solvent (e.g., terpene), and between about 10 wt%
    and about 40 wt% of a mutual solvent (e.g., alcohol). In some embodiments, the
    emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in addition to the surfactant of Formula (I), (II),

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    or (III), between about 10 wt% and 80 wt% water, between about 2 wt% and about 80
    wt% of one or more additional surfactants, between about 1 wt% and about 70 wt% of a
    solvent (e.g., terpene), and between about 5 wt% and about 40 wt% of a mutual solvent
    (e.g., alcohol). In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion comprises, in
 5  addition to the surfactant of Formula (I), (II), or (III), between about 20 wt% and 90 wt%
    water, between about 2 wt% and about 70 wt% of one or more additional surfactants,
    between about 1 wt% and about 78 wt% of a solvent (e.g., terpene), and between about
    22 wt% and about 40 wt% of a mutual solvent (e.g., alcohol). Non-limiting examples of
    surfactants of Formula (I), (II), or (III) include styrylphenol ethoxylate, a tristyrylphenol
10  ethoxylate, a styrylphenol propoxylate, a tristyrylphenol propoxylate, a styrylphenol
    ethoxylate propoxylate, or a tristyrylphenol ethoxylate propoxylate.
    H-F. Kill Fluids
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, generally during the lifecycle of the
15  well, it may be necessary to temporarily halt the recovery of gas and /or oil (e.g., to
    repair equipment). Generally, this is accomplished by injecting a fluid, herein referred to
    as a kill fluid, into the wellbore.
             In some embodiments, a kill fluid comprises an emulsion or microemulsion.
    Emulsions and microemulsions are described in more detail herein. The addition of an
20  emulsion or microemulsion in the kill fluid may have many advantages as compared to
    the use of a kill fluid alone including, for example, increasing the amount of kill fluid
    recovered and/or improving the ability for the well to return to the rate of production it
    exhibited prior to injection of the kill fluid.
             In some embodiments, the kill fluid comprises an emulsion or microemulsion as
25  described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an amount
    between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of kill fluid, or between about 0.5 and about 100
    gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 50 gpt, or
    between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20 gpt, or between
    about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or between about 5 and
30  about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an
    amount between about 1 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the kill fluid contains
    at least about 0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2 gpt, or at least about 4
    gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least about 50 gpt, or at least

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
    about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt, of an emulsion or a microemulsion. In some
    embodiments, the kill fluid contains less than or equal to about 200 gpt, or less than or
    equal to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 20 gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less than or equal to about 4 gpt, or
 5  less than or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or equal
    to about 0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
    H-G.     Enhanced Oil Recovery and/or Improved Oil Recovery
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, generally during the life cycle of the
10  well, procedures may be performed to increase the amount of oil and/or gas recovered
    from the wellbore. Such procedures are generally referred to as enhanced oil recovery
    (EOR) and/or improved oil recovery (IOR). EOR/IOR typically uses a secondary or a
    tertiary system (e.g., comprising one or more of water, polymers, surfactants, etc.) to
    create a new mechanism which increases the displacement of oil and/or gas from the
15  reservoir for recovery. Generally, EOR/IOR uses an existing wellbore which has been
    converted into a recovering well (e.g., an injecting well). In some embodiments, the
    recovering well is used to inject the secondary or tertiary system into the reservoir at a
    continuous or noncontinuous rate and/or pressure to increase the amount of hydrocarbons
    extracted from the reservoir. Non-limiting examples of EOR/IOR procedures include
20  water flooding, gas flooding, polymer flooding, and/or the use of surfactant polymers.
    For example, the EOR/IOR procedure may comprise an EOR/IOR fluid (e.g., a water
    flooding fluid, a polymer flooding fluid, a surfactant flooding fluid, a gas flooding fluid,
    a surfactant, or combinations thereof).
             Generally, water flooding (e.g., secondary recovery) refers to the injection of a
25  water flooding fluid into a reservoir to increase the amount of oil and/or gas recovered
    from the wellbore. In some embodiments, the water flooding fluid comprises one or
    more of water (e.g., water, makeup water, etc.), acidizing fluids (e.g., matrix acidizing
    fluids), surfactants, polymers, and foam. In certain embodiments, the water flooding
    fluid comprises a polymer (e.g., a polymer flooding fluid), and/or a surfactant (i.e. during
30  a surfactant flood), and/or a surfactant polymer flood (i.e. during a SP-flood), and/or an
    alkaline surfactant polymer (i.e. during an ASP-flood). In some embodiments, the water
    flooding fluid comprises an emulsion or microemulsion. Emulsions and microemulsions
    are described in more detail herein. The addition of an emulsion or microemulsion to the
                                                  rAi1

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    water flooding fluid may have many advantages as compared to a water flooding fluid
    alone including increasing the adhesion of the polymer to oil, increasing interfacial
    efficiency of the polymer, increasing the amount of oil and/or gas extracted from the
    reservoir, decreasing the volume of water needed to extract the same amount of oil,
 5  and/or lowering the pressure necessary to extract hydrocarbons from the reservoir. In
    some embodiments, the addition of an emulsion or microemulsion to the water flooding
    fluid increases the recovery of fracturing fluids (e.g., fracturing fluids not previously
    removed).
             Generally, polymer gels are injected into the formation during secondary and
10  tertiary recovery to block water and gas (carbon dioxide and nitrogen) flow from
    previously swept zones and large fractures (e.g., thief zones) or to prevent imbibition of
    water from a part of the formation that abuts the oil containing zone. Use of polymers in
    these cases is commonly referred to as conformance control or water shut-off. In some
    embodiments, emulsions and microemulsions are injected into the formation as a
15  preflush to prepare the formation for the polymer gel injection. The addition of an
    emulsion or microemulsion prior to the injection of a polymer gel may have many
    advantages as compared the injection of a polymer gel alone including enhancing the
    adhesion of the polymer to the formation (e.g., by removing surface contamination and
    residual oil).
20           Generally, gas flooding refers to the injection of a gas (e.g., carbon dioxide,
    nitrogen) into a reservoir to increase the amount of oil and/or gas recovered from the
    wellbore. In some embodiments, gas flooding comprises a gas flooding fluid (e.g., liquid
    carbon dioxide and/or liquid nitrogen). In some embodiments, the gas flooding fluid
    comprises an emulsion or microemulsion. The addition of an emulsion or a
25  microemulsion in the gas flooding fluid may have many advantages as compared to the
    use of a gas flooding fluid alone, including reducing the miscibility pressure as compared
    to gas flooding alone, and/or reducing the volume of liquid carbon dioxide or liquid
    nitrogen that expands into a gas during the gas flooding process.
             Generally, a formulation (e.g., a foam diverter, emulsion diverter, or matrix
30  diverter) that forms a foam upon contact with gas (e.g., carbon dioxide, flu gas, methane,
    natural gas, or nitrogen) is injected into the formation (e.g., in an aqueous treatment fluid
    or injected into the gas stream) that forms a foam upon contact with gas (e.g., carbon
    dioxide or nitrogen) is injected into the formation to divert gas flow from high

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    permeability zones to low permeability zones during a gas flood EOR/IOR treatment.
    These matrix diversion activities are commonly employed in situations where gas (e.g.
    carbon dioxide, flu gas, methane, natural gas, or nitrogen) rapidly penetrates the
    formation after a water flooding step without producing additional hydrocarbons. In
 5  these cases the rapid penetration of gas through the reservoir is due to gas gravity
    override or due to exhaustion of hydrocarbon reserves in high-permeability zones. In
    some embodiments, an emulsion and/or microemulsion is injected into the formation as a
    preflush to prepare the formation for the foam diverter injection. The addition of an
    emulsion or microemulsion prior to the injection of the foam may have many advantages
10  as compared the injection of the foam alone including enhancing the stability of the foam
    (e.g., by removing surface contamination and residual oil), or increasing the penetration
    of the foam into the formation (e.g., by controlling the adsorption of the diverter onto the
    rock surface).
             In some embodiments, the EOR/IOR fluid comprises an emulsion or
15  microemulsion as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in
    an amount between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of EOR/IOR fluid, or between about 0.5
    and about 100 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about
    50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20 gpt, or
    between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or between about
20  5 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is present in
    an amount between about 1 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the EOR/IOR fluid
    contains at least about 0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2 gpt, or at least
    about 4 gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least about 50 gpt, or at
    least about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt of an emulsion or a microemulsion. In some
25  embodiments, the EOR/IOR fluid contains less than or equal to about 200 gpt, or less
    than or equal to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50 gpt, or less than or equal
    to about 20 gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less than or equal to about 4 gpt,
    or less than or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or
    equal to about 0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
30
     H-H. Stored Fluid
             As will be known to those skilled in the art, wellbores and/or reservoirs which are
    no longer used for oil and/or gas recovery may generally be used to store excess fluid

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    (e.g., water, makeup water, salt water, brine, etc.) recovered from the reservoir. In some
    embodiments, an emulsion or microemulsion is added to the stored fluid. The addition of
    an emulsion or microemulsion to the stored fluid may reduce corrosion of the wellbore.
            In some embodiments, the stored fluid comprises an emulsion or microemulsion
 5  as described herein wherein the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an amount
    between about 0.5 and about 200 gpt of stored fluid, or between about 0.5 and about 100
    gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 50 gpt, or
    between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20 gpt, or between
    about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 2 and about 5 gpt, or between about 5 and
10  about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an
    amount between about 1 and about 10 gpt. In some embodiments, the stored fluid
    contains at least about 0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least about 2 gpt, or at least
    about 4 gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at least about 50 gpt, or at
    least about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt of an emulsion or a microemulsion. In some
15  embodiments, the stored fluid contains less than or equal to about 200 gpt, or less than or
    equal to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50 gpt, or less than or equal to
    about 20 gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less than or equal to about 4 gpt, or
    less than or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or equal
    to about 0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
20
    H-I.    Offshore Applications
            It should be understood, that for each step of the life cycle of the well described
    herein, the description may apply to onshore or offshore wells. In some embodiments,
    stimulation fluids are used in onshore wells. In some embodiments, stimulation fluids are
25  used in offshore wells and/or during fracture packing (e.g., gravel packing). As will be
    known by those skilled in the art, stimulation fluids for use in offshore wells may
    comprise stable media (e.g., gravel) that may be injected into a wellbore to protect the
    integrity of the wellbore itself. In some embodiments, stimulation fluids for use in
    offshore wells are used in high rate water packing wherein stimulation fluids may be
30  injected at higher rates (e.g., 400 barrels/min), at higher pressures, and/or at higher
    volumes as compared to an onshore well. The addition of an emulsion or microemulsion
    in the stimulation fluid for use in offshore wells may have many advantages as compared
    to the use of a stimulation fluid alone, including, for example, minimizing the damaging

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    effects of stimulation fluids that come in contact with the reservoir, and/or increasing the
    amount of hydrocarbons extracted from the reservoir.
             In some embodiments, the stimulation fluid utilized in offshore wells or during
    fracture packing comprises an emulsion or microemulsion as described herein wherein
 5  the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an amount between about 0.5 and about 200
    gpt of stimulation fluid for use in offshore wells or during fracture packing, or between
    about 0.5 and about 100 gpt, or between about 0.5 and about 50 gpt, or between about 1
    and about 50 gpt, or between about 1 and about 20 gpt, or between about 2 and about 20
    gpt, or between about 2 and about 10 gpt, or between about 5 and about 10 gpt. In some
10  embodiments, the emulsion or microemulsion is present in an amount between about 2
    and about 5 gpt. In some embodiments, the stimulation fluid for use in offshore wells or
    during fracture packing contains at least about 0.5 gpt, or at least about 1 gpt, or at least
    about 2 gpt, or at least about 4 gpt, or at least about 10 gpt, or at least about 20 gpt, or at
    least about 50 gpt, or at least about 100 gpt, or at least about 200 gpt of an emulsion or a
15  microemulsion. In some embodiments, the stimulation fluid for use in offshore wells or
    during fracture packing contains less than or equal to about 200 gpt, or less than or equal
    to about 100 gpt, or less than or equal to about 50 gpt, or less than or equal to about 20
    gpt, or less than or equal to about 10 gpt, or less than or equal to about 4 gpt, or less than
    or equal to about 2 gpt, or less than or equal to about 1 gpt, or less than or equal to about
20  0.5 gpt of an emulsion or microemulsion.
    III.     Definitions
             For convenience, certain terms employed in the specification, examples, and
    appended claims are listed here.
25           Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in
    more detail below. For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified in
    accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of
    Chemistry and Physics, 75 Ed., inside cover, and specific functional groups are
    generally defined as described therein. Additionally, general principles of organic
30  chemistry, as well as specific functional moieties and reactivity, are described in Organic
    Chemistry, Thomas Sorrell, University Science Books, Sausalito: 1999, the entire
    contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
             Certain compounds of the present invention may exist in particular geometric or

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    stereoisomeric forms. The present invention contemplates all such compounds, including
    cis- and trans-isomers,R- and S-enantiomers, diastereomers, (D)-isomers, (L)-isomers,
    the racemic mixtures thereof, and other mixtures thereof, as falling within the scope of
    the invention. Additional asymmetric carbon atoms may be present in a substituent such
 5  as an alkyl group. All such isomers, as well as mixtures thereof, are intended to be
    included in this invention.
             Isomeric mixtures containing any of a variety of isomer ratios may be utilized in
    accordance with the present invention. For example, where only two isomers are
    combined, mixtures containing 50:50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, 90:10, 95:5, 96:4, 97:3, 98:2,
10  99:1, or 100:0 isomer ratios are all contemplated by the present invention. Those of
    ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that analogous ratios are contemplated for
    more complex isomer mixtures.
             The term "aliphatic," as used herein, includes both saturated and unsaturated,
    nonaromatic, straight chain (i.e. unbranched), branched, acyclic, and cyclic (i.e.
15  carbocyclic) hydrocarbons, which are optionally substituted with one or more functional
    groups. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, "aliphatic" is intended
    herein to include, but is not limited to, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
    and cycloalkynyl moieties. Thus, as used herein, the term "alkyl" includes straight,
    branched and cyclic alkyl groups. An analogous convention applies to other generic
20  terms such as "alkenyl", "alkynyl", and the like. Furthermore, as used herein, the terms
    "alkyl", "alkenyl", "alkynyl", and the like encompass both substituted and unsubstituted
    groups. In certain embodiments, as used herein, "aliphatic" is used to indicate those
    aliphatic groups (cyclic, acyclic, substituted, unsubstituted, branched or unbranched)
    having 1-20 carbon atoms. Aliphatic group substituents include, but are not limited to,
25  any of the substituents described herein, that result in the formation of a stable moiety
    (e.g., aliphatic, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroaliphatic, heterocyclic, aryl, heteroaryl,
    acyl, oxo, imino, thiooxo, cyano, isocyano, amino, azido, nitro, hydroxyl, thiol, halo,
    aliphaticamino, heteroaliphaticamino, alkylamino, heteroalkylamino, arylamino,
    heteroarylamino, alkylaryl, arylalkyl, aliphaticoxy, heteroaliphaticoxy, alkyloxy,
30  heteroalkyloxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, aliphaticthioxy, heteroaliphaticthioxy,
    alkylthioxy, heteroalkylthioxy, arylthioxy, heteroarylthioxy, acyloxy, and the like, each
    of which may or may not be further substituted).

   WO 2014/153102                                                           PCT/US2014/029079
             The term "alkane" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a
    saturated hydrocarbon molecule. The term "branched alkane" refers to an alkane that
    includes one or more branches, while the term "unbranched alkane" refers to an alkane
    that is straight-chained. The term "cyclic alkane" refers to an alkane that includes one or
 5  more ring structures, and may be optionally branched. The term "acyclic alkane" refers
    to an alkane that does not include any ring structures, and may be optionally branched.
             The term "alkene" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to an
    unsaturated hydrocarbon molecule that includes one or more carbon-carbon double
    bonds. The term "branched alkene" refers to an alkene that includes one or more
10  branches, while the term "unbranched alkene" refers to an alkene that is straight-chained.
    The term "cyclic alkene" refers to an alkene that includes one or more ring structures,
    and may be optionally branched. The term "acyclic alkene" refers to an alkene that does
    not include any ring structures, and may be optionally branched.
             The term "aromatic" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to
15  aromatic carbocyclic groups, having a single ring (e.g., phenyl), multiple rings (e.g.,
    biphenyl), or multiple fused rings in which at least one is aromatic (e.g., 1,2,3,4
    tetrahydronaphthyl, naphthyl, anthryl, or phenanthryl). That is, at least one ring may
    have a conjugated pi electron system, while other, adjoining rings can be cycloalkyls,
    cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls.
20           The term "aryl" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to aromatic
    carbocyclic groups, optionally substituted, having a single ring (e.g., phenyl), multiple
    rings (e.g., biphenyl), or multiple fused rings in which at least one is aromatic (e.g.,
    1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthyl, naphthyl, anthryl, or phenanthryl). That is, at least one ring
    may have a conjugated pi electron system, while other, adjoining rings can be
25  cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls and/or heterocyclyls. The aryl group
    may be optionally substituted, as described herein. Substituents include, but are not
    limited to, any of the previously mentioned substitutents, i.e., the substituents recited for
    aliphatic moieties, or for other moieties as disclosed herein, resulting in the formation of
    a stable compound. In some cases, an aryl group is a stable mono- or polycyclic
30  unsaturated moiety having preferably 3-14 carbon atoms, each of which may be
    substituted or unsubstituted.
             The term "amine" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a primary
    (-NH 2), secondary (-NHRx), tertiary (-NRxRy), or quaternary (-N+RxRyRz) amine (e.g.,
                                                 - Anl -

   WO 2014/153102                                                          PCT/US2014/029079
    where Rx, Ry, and Rz are independently an aliphatic, alicyclic, alkyl, aryl, or other
    moieties, as defined herein).
             The term "amide" is given its ordinary meaning in the art and refers to a
    compound containing a nitrogen atom and a carbonyl group of the structure RxCONRyRz
 5  (e.g., where Rx, Ry, and Rz are independently an aliphatic, alicyclic, alkyl, aryl, or other
    moieties, as defined herein).
             These and other aspects of the present invention will be further appreciated upon
    consideration of the following Examples, which are intended to illustrate certain
    particular embodiments of the invention but are not intended to limit its scope, as defined
10  by the claims.
                                              Examples
    Example 1:
             This example describes a non-limiting experiment for determining displacement
15  of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation crude oil. A 25 cm long, 2.5 cm
    diameter capped glass chromatography column was packed with 77 grams of 100 mesh
    sand or a mixture of 70/140 mesh shale and 100 mesh sand or a mixture of 70/140 mesh
    shale and 100 mesh sand. The column was left open on one end and a PTFE insert
    containing a recessed bottom, 3.2 mm diameter outlet, and nipple was placed into the
20  other end. Prior to placing the insert into the column, a 3 cm diameter filter paper disc
    (Whatman, #40) was pressed firmly into the recessed bottom of the insert to prevent
    leakage of 100 mesh sand. A 2 inch piece of vinyl tubing was placed onto the nipple of
    the insert and a clamp was fixed in place on the tubing prior to packing. The columns
    were gravity-packed by pouring approximately 25 grams of the diluted microemulsions
25  (e.g., the microemulsions described in Examples 1 or 2, and diluted with 2% KCl, e.g., to
    about 2 gpt, or about 1 gpt) into the column followed by a slow, continuous addition of
    sand. After the last portion of sand had been added and was allowed to settle, the excess
    of brine was removed from the column so that the level of liquid exactly matched the
    level of sand. Pore volume in the packed column was calculated as the difference in mass
30  of fluid prior to column packing and after the column had been packed. Three additional
    pore volumes of brine were passed through the column. After the last pore volume was
    passed, the level of brine was adjusted exactly to the level of sand bed. Light condensate
    oil was then added on the top of sand bed to form the 5 cm oil column above the bed.
                                                 _ A1 -

   WO 2014/153102                                                         PCT/US2014/029079
    Additional oil was placed into a separatory funnel with a side arm open to an
    atmosphere. Once the setup was assembled, the clamp was released from the tubing, and
    timer was started. Throughout the experiment the level of oil was monitored and kept
    constant at a 5 cm mark above the bed. Oil was added from the separatory funnel as
 5  necessary, to ensure this constant level of head in the column. Portions of effluent
    coming from the column were collected into plastic beakers over a measured time
    intervals. The amount of fluid was monitored. When both brine and oil were produced
    from the column, they were separated with a syringe and weighed separately. The
    experiment was conducted for 3 hours at which the steady-state conditions were typically
10  reached. The cumulative % or aqueous fluid displaced from the column over 120 minute
    time period, and the steady-state mass flow rate of oil at t=120 min through the column
    were determined.
    Example 2:
15          This example describes a non-limiting experiment for determining displacement
    of residual aqueous treatment fluid by formation gas. A 51 cm long, 2.5 cm inner
    diameter capped glass chromatography column was filled with approximately 410  20 g
    of 20/40 mesh Ottawa sand and the diluted microemulsions. To ensure uniform packing,
    small amounts of proppant were interchanged with small volumes of liquid. Periodically
20  the mixture in the column was homogenized with the help of an electrical hand
    massager, in order to remove possible air pockets. Sand and brine were added to
    completely fill the column to the level of the upper cap. The exact amounts of fluid and
    sand placed in the column were determined in each experiment. The column was
    oriented vertically and was connected at the bottom to a nitrogen cylinder via a gas flow
25  controller pre-set at a flow rate of 60 cm3/min. The valve at the bottom was slowly
    opened and liquid exiting the column at the top was collected into a tarred jar placed on a
    balance. Mass of collected fluid was recorded as a function of time by a computer
    running a data logging software. The experiments were conducted until no more brine
    could be displaced from the column. The total % of fluid recovered was then calculated.
30
    Example 3:
            This example describes a general preparation method for the production of
    diluted microemulsion. The microemulsions were prepared in the laboratory by mixing

   WO 2014/153102                                                             PCT/US2014/029079
    the ingredients listed in specific examples. All ingredients are commercially available
    materials. In some embodiments, the components were mixed together in the order
    water-alcohol-surfactant- citrus terpene solvent, but other order of addition may also be
    employed. The mixtures were then agitated on a magnetic stirrer for 5 10 minutes. The
 5  microemulsions were then diluted to concentrations of 1 or 2 gallons per 1000 gallons
    with 2% KCl brine and these diluted fluids were used in displacement experiments (e.g.,
    as described in Examples 1 and 2).
    Example 4:
10           A number of microemulsions were prepared according to the method described in
    Example 3 and comprising the components described in Table 2. The microemulsions
    comprises a styrylphenol ethoxylate surfactant, water, other surfactants, co-solvents, and
    a solvent (e.g., hydrocarbon). The percent displacement of brine by crude oil was
    determined using the method described in Example 1. The results are provided in Table
15  2.
    Table 2:
               Amount of styrylphenol                                                       %
    Exp't       ethoxylate used in the           Formulation Composition              displacement
     No.             formulation                         (wt% range)                   of brine by
                        (wt%)                                                           crude oil
                                                       Water 20-90%
       1                11   1                    Other surfactants 2-70%                  69%
                                                     Cosolvents 10-40%
                                                    Hydrocarbon 1-80%
                                                       Water 10-80%
       2                 8  3                     Other surfactants 2-80%                  77%
                                                     Cosolvents 5-40%
                                                    Hydrocarbon 1-70%
                                                       Water 20-90%
       3                10   2                    Other surfactants 2-70%                  83%
                                                     Cosolvents 22-40%
                                                    Hydrocarbon 1-78%
20           While several embodiments of the present invention have been described and
    illustrated herein, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other
    means and/or structures for performing the functions and/or obtaining the results and/or

   WO 2014/153102                                                            PCT/US2014/029079
    one or more of the advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or
    modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the present invention. More generally,
    those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials,
    and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual
 5  parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend upon the specific
    application or applications for which the teachings of the present invention is/are used.
    Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
    experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
    described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are
10  presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and
    equivalents thereto, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically
    described and claimed. The present invention is directed to each individual feature,
    system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any
    combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or
15  methods, if such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not
    mutually inconsistent, is included within the scope of the present invention.
             The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the
    claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least
    one."
20           The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should
    be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e. elements that
    are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Other
    elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the
    "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified
25  unless clearly indicated to the contrary. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to
    "A and/or B," when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising"
    can refer, in one embodiment, to A without B (optionally including elements other than
    B); in another embodiment, to B without A (optionally including elements other than A);
    in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
30           As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood
    to have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating
    items in a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e. the inclusion
    of at least one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and,
                                                  - AA -

   WO 2014/153102                                                              PCT/US2014/029079
    optionally, additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as
    "only one of' or "exactly one of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will refer
    to the inclusion of exactly one element or a list of elements. In general, the term "or" as
    used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one or the
 5  other but not both") when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as "either," "one of,"
    "only one of," or "exactly one of." "Consisting essentially of," when used in the claims,
    shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.
             As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
    reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
10  element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
    necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the
    list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements.
    This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the
    elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least
15  one" refers, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus,
    as a non-limiting example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A
    or B," or, equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at
    least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally
    including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally
20  including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements other
    than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one,
    A, and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other
    elements); etc.
             In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
25  "comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
    and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e. to mean including but not limited
    to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting essentially of' shall be
    closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
    Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.
30

                                                 Claims
   What is claimed is:
   1.      A composition for use in an oil and/or gas well having a wellbore, comprising a
 5 fluid and an emulsion or microemulsion, wherein the emulsion or the microemulsion
   comprises:
           water;
           an alcohol;
           a solvent comprising a terpene; and
10         a surfactant having a structure as in Formula I:
                                                             R8
                                        H           RO                  R10
                                                             R"
           wherein each of R 7 , R', R, R1 0 , and R" are the same or different and are selected
   from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr,
   provided at least one of R 7 , R', R, R1 0 , and R" is -CH=CHAr;
15         Ar is an aryl group;
           R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
           n is 1-100; and
           m is 1.
20 2.      The composition as in claim 1, wherein the surfactant comprises a styrylphenol
   ethoxylate surfactant.
   3.      The composition as in claim 1, wherein R 7 is -CH=CHAr.
25
   4.      The composition as in claim 1, wherein R8 is -CH=CHAr.
                                                  - 66 -

   5.     The composition as in claim 1, wherein R9 is -CH=CHAr.
   6.     The composition as in claim 1, wherein R 10 is hydrogen.
 5 7.     The composition as in claim 1, wherein R 1 is hydrogen.
   8.     The composition as in claim 1, wherein R 12 is hydrogen.
   9.     The composition as in claim 1, wherein n    = 10.
10
   10.    The composition as in claim 1, wherein the alcohol comprises isopropanol.
   11.    The composition as in claim 1, wherein the terpene is d-limonene.
15 12.    The composition as in claim 1, wherein the terpene is a citrus terpene.
   13.    The composition as in claim 1, wherein the terpene is dipentene.
   14.    The composition as in claim 1, wherein R 12 is a C 1.6 alkyl.
20
   15.    The composition as in claim 1, wherein R 12 is methyl or ethyl.
   16.    A method of treating an oil and/or gas well having a wellbore, comprising:
          injecting a fluid comprising an emulsion or microemulsion into the wellbore,
25 wherein the emulsion or microemulsion comprises:
          water;
          an alcohol;
          a solvent comprising a terpene; and
          a surfactant, wherein the surfactant has a structure as in Formula I:
                                              - 67 -

                                                           R8
                                                                     R9
                                 R12oR7
                               R2 01              0    nR              10
                                                           R(
          wherein each of R7 , R', R, R10 , and R" are the same or different and are selected
   from the group consisting of hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, and -CH=CHAr,
   provided at least one of R7 , R', R, R 0 , and R" is -CH=CHAr;
 5        Ar is an aryl group;
          R 12 is hydrogen or alkyl;
          n is 1-100; and
          m is 1.
10 17.    The method as in claim 16, wherein the surfactant comprises a styrylphenol
   ethoxylate surfactant.
   18.    The method as in claim 16, wherein R7 is -CH=CHAr.
15
   19.    The method as in claim 16, wherein R8 is -CH=CHAr.
   20.    The method as in claim 16, wherein R9 is -CH=CHAr.
20 21.    The method as in claim 16, wherein R 10 is hydrogen.
   22.    The method as in claim 16, wherein R1 is hydrogen.
   23.    The method as in claim 16, wherein R 12 is hydrogen.
25
   24.    The method as in claim 16, wherein n = 10.
                                                - 68 -

   25. The method as in claim 16, wherein the alcohol comprises isopropanol.
   26. The method as in claim 16, wherein the terpene is d-limonene.
 5 27. The method as in claim 16, wherein the terpene is a citrus terpene.
   28. The method as in claim 16, wherein the terpene is dipentene.
   29. The method as in claim 16, wherein R 12 is a C 1.6 alkyl.
10
   30. The method as in claim 16, wherein R 12 is methyl or ethyl.
                                        - 69 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
