  Abstract
  The invention relates to a particulate material having a diameter in the range of
  from 5 to 200 microns comprising a polymeric matrix and stably incorporated
  radionuclide, processes for its production and a method of radiation therapy
5 utilising the particulate material.

           POLYMER BASED RADIONUCLIDE CONTAINING PARTICULATE
                                              MATERIAL
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 This invention relates to a particulate material that comprises a polymer, particularly a polymer
   and a radionuclide, to a method for the production thereof, and to methods for the use of this
   particulate material.
   In one particular aspect., this invention relates to microspheres which comprise a polymer and
   a radionuclide such as radioactive yttrium, and to the use of these microspheres in the
10 treatment of cancer in humans and other mammals.
   The particulate material of this invention is designed to be administered into the arterial blood
   supply of an organ to be treated, whereby it becomes entrapped in the small blood vessels of
   the target organ and irradiates it. An alternate form of administration is to inject the polymer
   based particulate material directly into the target organ or a solid tumour to be treated.
15 The particulate material of the present invention therefore has utility in the treatment of
   various forms of'cancer and tunours, but particularly in the treatment of primary and
   secondary cancer of the liver and the brain. It is to be understood that the particulate material
   of the invention is not limited to radioactive microspheres, but may be extended to other
   radioactive polymeric particles which are suitable for use in the treatment methods described
20 herein.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    Many previous attempts have been made to locally administer radioactive materials to patients
    with cancer as a form of therapy. In some of these, the radioactive materials have been
25  incorporated into small particles, seeds, wires and similar related configurations that can be
    directly implanted into the cancer. When radioactive particles are administered into the blood

                                                   -2
   supply of the target organ, the technique has become known as Selective Internal Radiation
   Therapy shirt). ,Generally, the main-form of application-of SIRT-has-been-its-use-to treat
   cancers in the liver.
   There are many potential advantages of SIRT over conventional, external beam radiotherapy.
 5  Firstly, the radiation is delivered preferentially to the cancer within the target organ.
   Secondly, the radiation is slowly and continually delivered as the radionuclide decays.
   Thirdly, by manipulating the arterial blood supply with vasoactive substances (such as
   Angiotensin-2), it is possible to enhance the percentage of radioactive particles that go to the
   cancerous part of the organ, as opposed to the healthy normal tissues. This has the effect of
10 preferentially increasing the radiation dose to the cancer while maintaining the radiation dose
   to the normal tissues at a lower level (Burton, M.A. et al.; Effect of Angiotensin-2 on blood
   flow in the transplanted sheep squamous cell carcinoma. Europ. J. Cancer Clin. Oncol. 1988,
   24(8):1373-1376).
   When microspheres or other small particles are administered into the arterial blood supply of
15 a target organ, it is desirable to have them of a size, shape and density that results in the
   optimal homogeneous distribution within the target organ. If the microspheres or small
   particles do not distribute evenly, and as a function of the absolute arterial blood flow, then
   they may accumulate in excessive numbers in some areas and cause focal areas of excessive
   radiation. It has been shown that microspheres of approximately 25-50 micron in diameter
20 have the best distribution characteristics when administered into the arterial circulation of the
   liver (Meade, V. et al.; Distribution of different sized microspheres in experimental hepatic
   tumours. Europ. J. Cancer & Clin. Oncol. 1987, 23:23-41).
   If the particles are too dense or heavy, then they will not distribute evenly in the target organ
   and will accumulate in excessive concentrations in areas that do not contain the cancer. It has
25 been shown that solid, heavy microspheres distribute poorly within the parenchyma of the liver
   when injected into the arterial supply of the liver. This, in turn, decreases the effective
   radiation reaching the cancer in the target organ, which decreases the ability of the radioactive
   microspheres to kill the tumour cells. In contrast, lighter microspheres with a specific gravity

                                                     -3
   Radiation Therapy; Distribution of radiation in the liver. Europ. J. Cancer Clin. Oncol. 1989,
   25:1487-1491).
   For radioactive particulate material to be used successfully for the treatment of cancer, the
   radiation emitted should be of high energy and short range. This ensures that the energy
 5 emitted will be deposited into the tissues innediately around the particulate material and not
   into tissues which are not the target of the radiation treatment. In this treatment mode, it is
   desirable to have high energy but short penetration beta-radiation which will confine the
   radiation effects to the immediate vicinity of the particulate material. There are many
   radionuclides that can be incorporated into microspheres that can be used for SIRT. Of
10 particular suitability for use in this form of treatment is the unstable isotope of yttrium (Y-90).
      Yttrium-90 decays with a half life of 64 hours, while emitting a high energy pure beta
   radiation. However, other radionuclides may also be used in place of yttrium-90 of which the
   isotopes of holmium, samarium, iodine, iridium, phosphorus, rhenium are some examples.
   Ceramic particles have been produced that are either coated with or contain radionuclides.
15 However, the presence of other radioactive substances that are not required for the radiation
   treatment of the target tissue, has then unwanted and deleterious radiation effects may occur.
    It is therefore desirable to have particulate material of such a composition that it only contains
   the single desired radionuclide.
   In the earliest clinical use of yttrium-90 containing microspheres, the yttrium was incorporated
20 into a polymeric matrix that was formulated into microspheres. While these microspheres
   were of an appropriate density to ensure good distribution characteristics in the liver, there
   were several instances in which the yttrium-90 leached from the microspheres and caused
   inappropriate radiation of other tissues. Attempts to incorporate other radionuclides such as
   holmium into resin or polymer based materials have resulted in leaching of the radionuclide
25 and this has resulted in severe consequences for the patients that have been treated with the
   product.
   In one attempt to overcome the problem of leaching, a radioactive microsphere comprising a
   biologically compatible glass material containing a beta- or gamma-radiation emitting

                                                  -4
   radioisotope such as yttrium-90 distributed throughout the glass, has been developed
   (International Patent Publication No. WO 86/03124). These microspheres are solid glass and
   contain the element yttrium-89 that can be activated to the radionuclide yttrium-90 by placing
   the microspheres in a neutron beam. These glass microspheres have several disadvantages
 5 including being of a higher specific gravity than is desirable and containing other elements
   such as alumina and silica which are activated to undesirable radionuclides when placed in a
   neutron beam.
   Another approach has been focussed on the use of small hollow or cup-shaped ceramic
   particles or microspheres, wherein the ceramic base material consists or comprises yttria or
10 the like (International Patent Publication No. WO 95/19841). These microspheres were
   developed to overcome the problem of high density associated with the solid glass
   microspheres described in International Patent Publication No. W086/03124.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15 In one aspect the present invention provides a particulate material having a diameter in the
   range of from 5 to 200 microns comprising a polymeric matrix and a stably incorporated
   radionuclide.
   In another aspect, the invention provides a process for the production of a particulate material
   having a diameter in the range of from 5 to 200 microns comprising the step of combining a
20 polymeric matrix and a radionuclide for a time and under conditions sufficient to stably
   incorporate the radionuclide in the matrix to produce a particulate material having a diameter
   in the range of from 5 to 200 microns.
   In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of radiation therapy of a patient,
   which comprises administration to the patient of a particulate material having a diameter in
25 the range of from 5 to 200 microns comprising a polymeric matrix and a stably incorporated
    radionuclide.

                                                  -5
   The present invention also provides for the use of particulate material having a diameter in
   the range of from 5 to 200 microns comprising a polymeric matrix and a stably incorporated
   radionuclide in the radiation therapy of a patient.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   As used herein, references to the radionuclide being stably incorporated into particulate
   material or polymeric matrix are to be understood as referring to incorporation of the
   radionuclide so that it does not substantially leach out of the particulate material under
   physiological conditions such as in the patient or in storage. In a preferred embodiment the
10 radionuclide is incorporated by precipitation into a polymeric matrix.
   The leaching of radionuclides from the polymeric matrix can cause non-specific radiation of
   the patient and damage surrounding tissue. Preferably the amount of leaching is less than 5%,
   more preferably less than 4%, 3%, 2%, 1% or 0.4%. One method of assessing leaching is by
   adjusting a sample to pH 7.0 and agitating in a water bath at 37'C for 20 minutes. A 100 pL
15 sample is counted for beta emission in a Geiger-Mnller counter. Another representative 100
    tL sample is filtered through a 0.22 ym filter and the filtrate counted for beta emission in the
   Geiger-Muller counter. The per cent unbound radionuclide is calculated by:
    FiltrateCountX 100= % UnboundRadionuclide
     SampleCount
   The radionuclide can be stably incorporated into the polymeric matrix by precipitating it as an
20 insoluble salt. Where the radionuclide used is yttrium-90 the yttrium is preferably precipitated
   as a phosphate salt. However the present invention also extends to precipitation of the
   radionuclide as other insoluble salts including, for example, carbonate and bicarbonate salts.
   The radionuclide which is incorporated into the polymeric matrix in accordance with the
   present invention is preferably yttrium-90, but may also be any other suitable radionuclide
25 which can be precipitated in solution, of which the isotopes of holmium, samarium, iodine,
   phosphorous, iridium and rhenium are some examples.

                                                   -6
   In a preferred embodiment the particulate material is a microsphere. The term microsphere is
   used in this specification as an example of a particulate material, it is not intended to limit the
   invention to microspheres, as the person skilled in the art will appreciate that the shape of the
   particulate material while preferably without sharp edges or points that could damage the
 5 patients arteries or catch in unintended locations, is not limited to spheres. Nor should the term
   microsphere be limited to spheres. Preferably the particulate material is substantially spherical,
   but need not be regular or symmetrical in shape.
   In a preferred embodiment the polymeric matrix is partially cross linked. Preferably there is
   about 1%to about 20% cross linking, preferably about 2% to 10% cross linking and more
10 preferably about 4% cross linking.
   In particular, the present invention provides a particulate material as described above in which
   the polymeric matrix is an ion exchange resin, particularly a cation exchange resin. Preferably
   the ion exchange resin comprises a partially cross linked aliphatic polymer, including
   polystyrene. One particularly preferred cation exchange resin is the styrene/divinylbenzene
15 copolymer resin commercially available under the trade name Aminex 50W-X4 (Biorad,
   Hercules, CA). However, there are many other commercially available cation exchange resins
   which are suitable.
   When small particles are administered into the arterial blood supply of a target organ, it is
   desirable to have them of a size, shape and density that results in the optimal homogeneous
20 distribution within the target organ. If the small particles do not distribute evenly then they
   may accumulate in excessive numbers in some areas and cause focal areas of excessive
   radiation. The particulate material is preferably low density, more particularly a density below
   3.0 g/cc, even more preferably below 2.8g/cc, 2.5g/cc, 2.3g/cc, 2.2g/cc or 2.0 g/cc. The ideal
   particle for injection into the-blood stream would have a very narrow size range with a SD of
25 less than 5%, so as to assist in even distribution of the microspheres within the target organ,
   particularly within the liver and would be sized in the range 5-200 micron preferably 15-100
   micron and preferably 20-50 micron, and most preferably 30-35 micron.
   It is also desirable to have the particulate material manufactured so that the suspending

                                                    -7
   solution has a pH less than 9. If the pH is greater than 9 then this may result in irritation of the
   blood vessels when the suspension is injected into the artery or target organ. Preferably the pH
   is less than 8.5 or 8.0 and more preferably less than 7.5.
   The present invention particularly provides a method for the production of a radioactive
 5 particulate material comprising a polymeric matrix as described above, characterised by the
   steps of:
   (i)      absorbing a radionuclide onto an ion-exchange resin particulate material having a
   diameter in the range of 20 to 50 microns and a specific gravity of less than 2.5; and
   (ii)     precipitating the radionuclide as an insoluble salt to stably incorporate the radionuclide
10 into the particulate material.
   In a preferred embodiment, the method of the present invention is carried out by firstly
   irradiating yttria yttriumm oxide) in a neutron beam to activate yttria to the isotope yttrium-90.
    The yttrium-90 oxide is then solubilised, for example as yttrium-90 sulphate solution. The
   ion exchange resin is preferably provided in the form of an aqueous slurry of microspheres of
15 ion exchange resin having a particle size 30 to 35 microns, and the yttrium-90 sulphate
   solution is added to the slurry to absorb the yttrium-90 into the ion exchange resin
   microspheres. Subsequently, the yttrium-90 is precipitated as a phosphate salt, for example
   by addition of tri-sodium phosphate solution, to stably incorporate the yttrium-90 into the
   microspheres. The particulate material may be combined with a solution of the radionuclide
20 or the salt of the radionuclide may be combined with the particulate matter, in a solution
   suitable for solubilising the radionuclide.
   Alternate sources of yttrium-90 may be used in the production of these microspheres. For
   example, a highly pure source of yttrium-90 may be obtained by extracting yttrium-90 from
   a parent nuclide and using this extracted yttrium-90 as the source of the soluble yttrium salt
25 that is then incorporated into the polymeric matrix of the microspheres.
   In order to decrease the pH of the suspension containing the microspheres for injection into
   patients the microspheres may be washed to remove any un-precipitated or loosely adherent

                                                    -8
   radionuclide. The present invention provides a suspension of the required pH by precipitating
   the yttrium with a tri-sodium phosphate solution at a concentration containing at least a three
   fold excess of phosphate ion, but not exceeding a 30-fold excess of phosphate ion, and then
   washing the microspheres with de-ionised water. Another approach which ensures that the pH
 5 of the microsphere suspension is in the desired range is to wash the resin with a phosphate
   buffer solution of the desired pH.
   The present invention also provides a method of radiation therapy of a human or other
   mammalian patient that comprises administration to the patient of particulate material as
   described above. The person skilled in the art will appreciate the administration may be by any
10 suitable means and preferably by delivery to the relevant artery. For example in treating liver
   cancer, administration is preferably by laparotomy to expose the hepatic artery or by insertion
   of a catheter into the hepatic artery via the femoral, or brachial artery. Pre or co-administration
   of another agent may prepare the tumour for receipt of the particulate material, for example
   a vasioactive substance, such as angiotension-2 to redirect arterial blood flow into the tumour.
15  Delivery of the particulate matter may be by single or multiple doses, until the desired level
   of radiation is reached.
   Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and
   or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be.understood to imply the inclusion
   of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
20 integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following Examples.
   It is to be understood, however, that this detailed description is included solely for the
   purposes of exemplifying the present invention, and should not be understood in any way as
   a restriction on the broad description of the invention as set out above.
25
   EXAMPLE 1
   Yttrium (90Y) labelled microspheres are made in the form of a sterile, pyrogen free suspension

                                                    -9
   of resin beads labelled with yttrium (90Y) phosphate. The resin beads consist of sulphuric
   acid groups attached to a styrene divinylbenzene copolymer lattice.
   Yttrium oxide is irradiated to produce yttrium-90 from the nuclear reaction Y-89 (n, Y)Y-90.
    Yttrium-90 has a half life of 64 hours. The yttrium (90Y) oxide is then dissolved in 0. 1M
 5 sulphuric acid with gentle heating and stirring to form a clear, colourless solution of yttrium
   (90Y) sulphate.
   Symmetrical microspheres of ion exchange resin (Ami-nex 50W-X4-cation exchange resin;
   supplied by 'Bio-Rad Cat # 1474313') with a diameter of approximately 30 to 35 microns are
   added to water (Water for Injections BP) to form a slurry that is then transferred into a reaction
10 vessel. Yttrium (90Y) sulphate solution is added to the reaction vessel and the mixture stirred
   at a speed sufficient to ensure homogeneity to absorb the yttrium (90Y) solution into the resin
   based microspheres. Tri-sodium phosphate solution (1.25% w/v) is then added to the reaction
   vessel with further stirring to precipitate the radionuclide as yttrium (90Y) phosphate.
   The microspheres are then washed with a phosphate buffer solution until the pH of the wash
15 solution is less than 9 and preferable less than 8.5. Following washing of the microspheres
   with water (Water for Injection BP), the microspheres are resuspended and diluted (if
   necessary) with water (Water for Injections BP) to give a light brown suspension having an
   activity of 3000 MBq [O10%.
   The resin-based yttrium microspheres produced by the above method have 0.01-0.4% unbound
20 or unprecipitated 90Y when tested in the following leaching test:
   A 5 gL sample is diluted with water to 5 mL, adjusted to pH 7.0 and agitated in a water bath
   at 37"C for 20 minutes. A 100 gL sample is counted for beta emission in a Geiger-Mnller
   counter. Another representative 100 yL sample is filtered through a 0.22 pm filter and the
   filtrate counted for beta emission in the Geiger-MUller counter. The per cent unbound 90Y
25 is calculated by:
   FiltrateCountX 100- % Ubund90 Y
                   X 10=       Unoud"

                                                   -10
   EXAMPLE 2
   The effect of phosphate concentration in the precipitation solution, and the effects of washing
   with phosphate buffer on the pH of a microsphere suspension are shown in the attached Figure
 5 1 which sets out the results of a number of experiments.
   EXAMPLE 3
   The technique of Selective Internal Radiation Therapy (SIRT) has been described above. It
   involves either a laparotomy to expose the hepatic arterial circulation or the insertion of a
   catheter into the hepatic artery via the femoral, brachial or other suitable artery. This may be
10 followed by the infusion of Angiotensin-2 into the hepatic artery to redirect arterial blood to
   flow into the metastatic tumour component of the liver and away from the normal parenchyma.
    This is followed by embolisation of resin based yttrium-90 containing microspheres (produced
   in accordance with Example 1) into the arterial circulation so that they become lodged in the
   microcirculation of the tumour. Repeated injections of microspheres are made until the
15 desired radiation level in the normal liver parenchyma is reached. By way of example, an
   amount of yttrium-90 activity that will result in an inferred radiation dose to the normal liver
   of approximately 80 Gy may be delivered. Because the radiation from SIRT is delivered as
   a series of discrete point sources, the dose of 80 Gy is an average dose with many normal liver
   parenchymal cells receiving much less than that dose.
20 The measurement of tumour response by objective parameters including reduction in tumour
   volume and serial estimations of serum carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) levels, is an
   acceptable index of the ability of the treatment to alter the biological behaviour of the tumour.

                                              -11
CLAIMS:
1. A particulate material having a diameter in the range of from 5 to 200 microns comprising
    a polymeric matrix and stably incorporated radionuclide.
2. The particulate material according to claim 1 wherein the radionuclide is incorporated by
    precipitation.
3. The particulate material according to claim 1 wherein the polymeric matrix is partially
    cross linked.
4. The particulate material according to claim 3 wherein the polymeric matrix comprises from
    about 1%to about 20% cross linking.
5. The particulate material according to claim 4 wherein the polymeric matrix comprises
    about 4% cross linking.
6. The particulate material according to claim 1 wherein the polymeric' matrix is an ion
    exchange resin.
7. The particulate material according to claim 6 wherein the polymeric matrix is a cation
    exchange resin.
8. The particulate material according to claim 6 wherein the ion exchange resin comprises
    a partially cross linked aliphatic polymer.
9. The particulate material according to claim 6 wherein the ion exchange resin comprises
    a partially cross linked polystyrene.
10. The particulate material according to claim 9 wherein the ion exchange resin comprises
    polystyrene partially cross linked with divinyl benzene.
11. The particulate material according to claim 1, wherein the radionuclide is an isotope of
    yttrium, holmium, samarium, iodine, phosphorus, iridium or rhenium.

                                              -12
12. The particulate material according to claim 1, wherein the radionuclide is yttrium-90.
13. The particulate material according to claim 1 being a Inicrosphere.
14. A particulate material having a diameter in the range of from 30 to 35 microns comprising
    a copolymer comprised of styrene and divinyl benzene and precipitated yttrium-90.
15. A process for the production of a particulate material according to claim 1 comprising the
    step of combining a polymeric matrix and a radionuclide in solution for a time and under
    conditions sufficient to stably incorporate the radionuclide in the matrix to produce a
    particulate material having a diameter in the range of from 5 to 200 microns.
16. A process according to claim 15 wherein the radionuclide is stably incorporated by
    precipitation into the polymeric matrix.
17. A process according to claim 15 wherein the radionuclide is yttrium-90.
18. A method of radiation therapy of a patient, which comprises administration to the patient
    of a particulate material having a diameter in the range of from 5 to 200 microns
    comprising a polymeric matrix and a stably incorporated radionuclide.
19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the radionuclide is yttrium-90.
20. A method according to claim 18. wherein the radiation therapy comprises treatment of a
   -primary or secondary liver cancer.
21. Use of particulate material having a diameter in the range of from 5 to 200 microns
    comprising a polymeric matrix and a stably incorporated radionuclide in radiation therapy
    of a patient.
22. Use according to claim 21 wherein the radionuclide is yttrium-90.
23. Use according to claim 21 wherein the radiation therapy comprises treatment of a primary
    or secondary liver cancer.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
