                                            ABSTRACT
A step apparatus for a tray deck of a utility vehicle, the tray deck provided with at least one
channel substantially parallel the plane of the tray deck and an abutment, the step apparatus
including: a step member; a channel connector attached to the step member; and an abutment
contact on one side of the step member; wherein the channel connector is configured to
removably attach to one of the at least one channel of the tray deck, such that, when attached,
the abutment contact abuts against the tray deck abutment, and such that the step member
presents a substantially horizontal surface suitable for stepping, and wherein abutment contact
abuts against the tray deck abutment at a location below the step surface.

    1/2
VQ0
        'urn
          tz

                                                       1
STEP APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND METHOD
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to a step, and may be useful for decks and tray decks for
vehicles, and particularly useful for decks and tray decks for utility type vehicles.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Utility vehicles, sometimes referred to as utes, pick-ups or pick-up trucks, typically are
equipped with a tray or tray deck at the rear of the vehicle, which serves to carry loads of various
types. The loads may include equipment, sand, gravel and various other kinds of items and materials.
[0003]     Some utility vehicles have a flat area, which may be referred to as a tray, a cargo bed or a
deck. Other utility vehicles have a flat area which is surrounded by up to four sides to form a container,
which may also be referred to variously as a tray or a cargo bed. The sides may be fixed or moveable,
and may be a combination of fixed and moveable sides. Sometimes the side at the back is referred to
as a tail gate.
[0004]     In this specification, for consistency and ease of understanding, the vehicle will be referred
to as a utility or utility vehicle; the flat area will be referred to as a deck; each of the sides will be
referred to as side gates (front, rear, left and right); and the deck and side gates together (whether
there be one, two, three or four side gates) will be referred to as a tray deck.
[0005]     In some utility vehicles, the sides of the tray deck are fixed in position, the deck and sides
forming what is sometimes referred to as a tub. In other utility vehicles, one or more of the sides are
moveable between open and closed configurations. In this specification, unless otherwise indicated,
the term side gate will refer to a side of a tray deck, wherein the side gate is moveable at least between
open and closed positions. Some utility vehicles have side gates which are detachable. Typically, if a
utility vehicle tray deck has a front side (usually adjacent a cab of the utility vehicle), the front side is
in a fixed position, and in this specification the front side may be referred to as a fixed side or also
referred to as a side gate, though it will be understood that the front side is typically in a fixed position.
[0006]     Typically, a deck or tray deck will be provided with a utility vehicle when sold to a customer.
The type of tray deck is either dictated by the model of the vehicle or there may be a very limited
range of options available from which a customer can select.

                                                        2
[0007]     It is also possible to buy utility vehicles without a deck or tray deck fitted, and the customer
can select a deck or tray deck for their vehicle after purchase, but the customer will have a very limited
range of options for a deck or tray deck.
[0008]     Further, decks and tray decks are typically manufactured or supplied as a single unit, and can
be fitted only to one vehicle model or a very limited range of vehicle models. Such units are bulky,
which causes them to be inconvenient and expensive to transport, for example, form a place of
manufacture to a place where the deck or tray deck is to be fitted to a utility vehicle.
[0009]     Many decks and tray decks are not configurable or may have very limited options for
configuration. A customer may want to include various features to make a deck or tray deck more
suitable for that customer's intended use of the utility vehicle.
[0010]     Often a user of a utility vehicle needs to climb onto the deck of the vehicle to attend to tasks,
such as shifting loads, tying items to racking bars, or for other purposes. Presently, it can be difficult,
and in some instances, dangerous, to climb onto a utility vehicle deck. Sometimes, a person might use
various parts of the deck or tray deck to climb up on the deck, such as the top edge of a folded down
side gate, a wheel, or a wheel arch. Using these means to climb onto the deck can be hazardous and
can also damage the tray deck or utility vehicle components.
[0011]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least one of
the above-mentioned problems in the prior art, and/or to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least
one problem in the prior art, which has not been mentioned above and/or to provide at least a useful
alternative to prior art devices, systems and/or methods.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a step apparatus for a tray deck of a utility
vehicle, the tray deck provided with at least one channel substantially parallel the plane of the tray
deck and an abutment, the step apparatus including:
         a step member providing a step surface;
         a channel connector attached to the step member; and
         an abutment contact on one side of the step member,
         wherein the channel connector is configured to removably attach to one of the at least one
         channel of the tray deck, such that, when attached, the abutment contact abuts against the

                                                     3
         tray deck abutment, and such that the step member presents a substantially horizontal step
         surface suitable for stepping, and wherein abutment contact abuts against the tray deck
         abutment at a location below the step surface.
[0013]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a step system for a tray deck of a utility
vehicle, the step system including:
         on the tray deck:
                  at least one channel substantially parallel the plane of the tray deck; and
                  an abutment; and
         step apparatus, including:
                  a step member;
                  a channel connector attached to the step member; and
                  an abutment contact on one side of the step member,
         wherein the channel connector is configured to removably attach to one of the at least one
         channel of the tray deck, such that, when attached, the abutment contact abuts against the
         tray deck abutment, and such that the step member presents a substantially horizontal step
         surface suitable for stepping, and wherein the abutment contact abuts against the tray deck
         abutment at a location below the step surface.
SUMMARY OF SOME OPTIONAL EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0014]     In embodiments, the step member is a substantially planar plate. It will be appreciated that,
to safely carry the load presented by a large adult human, the step member should be formed from a
suitably robust material, such as steel. Further, it will be appreciated that, in some embodiments, the
size of the step member should be such that a large adult human's foot encased in a work boot is
comfortably accommodated on the step member.
[0015]     In embodiments, the step apparatus includes two connector arms comprising the channel
connector. In some embodiments, each arm has at its end distal from the step member a hook for
hooking into the channel. In some embodiments, each connector arm depends from the step member
approximately at a 45* angle.

                                                      4
[0016]     In other embodiments, each arm has at its end distal from the step member a channel slider
for insertion into and sliding along the channel. In some other embodiments, the channel slider of
each connector arm is rotatably connected to the connector arm, wherein the channel slider includes
a hinge pin which is inserted into a hole at the end of the connector arm distal from the step member.
[0017]     In other embodiments, the abutment contact comprises a side of the step member. In some
embodiments, the abutment contact is padded to avoid scratching or scuffing the tray deck or the
utility vehicle. It will be appreciated that the step member should be sufficiently rigid, such that, when
the abutment contact abuts the abutment, and when a large adult human stands on the step member,
the step member should remain substantially unbending under the downward force of the human and
the lateral force of the abutment against the abutment contact.
[0018]     In various embodiments, the at least one channel is located on a side gate of the tray deck,
wherein, when the side gate is moved to a fully open position, and the side gate is approximately 180*
from its upright (closed) position, the channel present outwardly of the vehicle on which the tray deck
is mounted. In this regard, it may be understood that, when the side gate is closed, the channel faces
inwards towards the tub area of the tray deck. In some embodiments, the side gate has multiple
parallel channels, providing options for placing the step apparatus at different heights.
[0019]     In various embodiments, where the side gate has at least two channels, an upper channel
(when the side gate is in its fully open position) accommodates the channel connector, and a lower
channel accepts the abutment contact. In this arrangement the provided step surface is located above
the location where abutment contact abuts against the tray deck abutment. It will be appreciated that
this arrangement may provide further stability for the step apparatus and system, as the abutment
contact is held within the lower channel further preventing the step member from swinging side-to
side.
[0020]     In further embodiments, the abutment comprises an area on the side gate, under the
channel, when the side gate is lowered to its fully open position.
[0021]     In yet further embodiments, the at least one channel may be formed in other parts of the
tray deck, other than the side gate.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022]      At least one embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to the following,
non-limiting illustrations representing the at least one embodiment of the present invention, in which:

                                                      5
[0023]     Figure 1 is a perspective view of the step apparatus and system, the step apparatus located
on a tray deck, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
[0024]     Figure 2 is a perspective view of a step apparatus, in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SOME EMBODIMENTS
[0025]      Figure 1 shows a tray deck 100 of a utility vehicle 100, having a deck 102 formed from planks
and side gate, including right side gate 104. The right side gate is shown in a fully lowered position,
about 180* from its upright and fully closed position. The right side gate has two channels, as depicted
with the right side gate in the fully lowered position, upper channel 106 and lower channel 108. Step
apparatus 110 is mounted on the right side gate.
[0026]      The step apparatus 110 includes a step member 122, an abutment contact 120, and a
channel connector 112. The channel connector includes two connector arms 114, each connector arm
including a channel slider 116 hingedly mounted with a rotating pin 118 at an end of the connector
arm distal from the step member. The channel sliders 116 are slid into the upper channel 106. It will
be appreciated that the channel sliders allow the step apparatus to be positioned at any selected
position along channel 106.
[0027]     The abutment contact 120 comprises a rear edge (as depicted) of the step member 122, with
the abutment contact abutting the bottom of lower channel 108 (or the rear of the lower channel, as
depicted). As lower channel 108 accepts the abutment contact and a portion of the edge of the step
member, this arrangement provides more stability for the step apparatus when so connected to the
side gate 106.
[0028]     When a user of the apparatus and system steps on the step member, part of the force
imparted by the load of the user is transferred via the channel sliders 116 of the step apparatus 110
to the rails of the upper channel 106, and, by the hinged arrangement of the step apparatus 110, part
of the force is transferred through the abutment contact 120 to the abutment formed by the lower
channel. This configuration provides for a distribution of force so that neither channel is required to
take all the force of a person stepping on the step apparatus.
[0029]     Figure 2 shows some details of the step apparatus 110, including holes 200 located at an end
of each connector arm 114, each hole configured to accept a hinge pin 118 of a channel slider 116 for
rotatable engagement therein.

                                                    6
[0030]     Although the step apparatus 110 of the depicted embodiment is shown mounted to a side
gate, it will be appreciated that the step apparatus is adapted to be mounted to other parts of the tray
deck 100, which are configured with a suitable channel arrangement. Further, it will be appreciated
that, in other embodiments, the means of connecting the step apparatus could include hooks, and the
tray deck may include slots adapted to accept the hooks.
[0031]     Moreover, the step apparatus can be connected to other parts of a utility vehicle or to other
objects, such as walls.
[0032]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0033]      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                 7
                                              CLAIMS
1. A step apparatus for a tray deck of a utility vehicle, the tray deck provided with at least one
   channel substantially parallel the plane of the tray deck and an abutment, the step apparatus
   including:
          a step member;
          a channel connector attached to the step member; and
          an abutment contact on one side of the step member,
          wherein the channel connector is configured to removably attach to one of the at least
          one channel of the tray deck, such that, when attached, the abutment contact abuts
          against the tray deck abutment, and such that the step member presents a substantially
          horizontal surface suitable for stepping, and wherein abutment contact abuts against the
          tray deck abutment at a location below the step surface.
2. A step system for a tray deck of a utility vehicle, the step system including:
          on the tray deck:
                 at least one channel substantially parallel the plane of the tray deck; and
                 an abutment; and
          step apparatus, including:
                 a step member;
                 a channel connector attached to the step member; and
                 an abutment contact on one side of the step member,
   wherein the channel connector is configured to removably attach to one of the at least one
   channel of the tray deck, such that, when attached, the abutment contact abuts against the tray
   deck abutment, and such that the step member presents a substantially horizontal surface
   suitable for stepping, and wherein abutment contact abuts against the tray deck abutment at a
   location below the step surface.

                                                  8
3. The step apparatus of claim 1 or system of claim 2 wherein the step member is a substantially
   planar steel plate and is sufficiently large to comfortably accommodate a large adult human's
   foot when encased in a work boot.
4. The step apparatus or system of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the channel connector
   includes two connector arms and each arm has at the end distal from the step member a hook
   for hooking into the channel.
5. The step apparatus or system of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the a least one channel is
   located on a gate of the tray deck, wherein, when the gate is moved to a fully open position,
   and it is approximately 180* from its upright (closed) position, then the a least one channel
   presents outwardly of the vehicle on which the tray deck is mounted.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
