Baggage location tracking. Travel app provides user with baggage location information.
Travel carrier server provides this information to the travel app.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Disclosed is "My Travel Guardian"technology application used to relay baggage location
information to the users of the application in order to reduce and minimise the cause of lost
luggage. The application relays baggage location information provided by travel carriers to
the users of the application. The information is received via travel carrier server profiles and
this information is distributed to the app via a boarding pass / entry ticket / e ticket and
through the information stored on these passes and the users profile. The information
received by the application is scanned via (QR code, Barcode and user profiles with the
travel carriers). The technology application is designed to reduce the loss of luggage as the
users of the app and the owners of the luggage in discussion will have direct access to the
locality of their luggage on its travel journey.
This is technology application is not limited to one industry however is applicable to all
industries where external organisations handle peoples baggage

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

1. This technology application is not limited to one industry however is applicable to all
   industries where external organisations handle peoples baggage
2. This technology application is not limited to smart phones however can be
   manipulated to other forms of technology i.e computers, tablets or other technology
   systems
3. This technology application utilises an array of stored scanned information processes
   to relay the data to the users of the application
4. This technology application utilises QR codes, barcodes, and user profiles to access
   the information
5. This technology application is used to access the information stored on barcodes, QR
   codes, and user profiles and to read this information and provide its users with
   accurate data on the location of baggage and other travelling components/details
6. This technology application mirrors the information checkpoints of the luggage
   location and information from the partnering organisation profiles

