   ABSTRACT
   A sweep fan assembly comprising a base subassembly
   comprising electrical componentry, a shaft arranged to be
 5 coupled to the base subassembly to support the base
   subassembly from a support structure, electrical wiring
   including multiple wires extending along the length of the
   shaft and arranged in use to electrically connect the
   electrical componentry to a power source, and a first
10 multi-wire coupling operative to allow rapid connection of
   the electrical wiring to the electrical componentry on
   coupling of the shaft to the base subassembly.

    1/2
61
   Figure 1

                                - 1
                         SWEEP FAN ASSEMBLY
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present disclosure relates to sweep fan assembly,
   components for use in such assemblies and to methods of
   their installation.
   Background of the Invention
10
   Sweep fans are used for increasing circulation of air in a
   space and are commonly found in various domestic and
   industrial locations. A sweep fan assembly generally
   comprises a base assembly that incorporates a motor and
15 possibly other componentry, from which one or more fan
   blades extend, and a shaft that extends from the base
   assembly to suspend the sweep fan from a support
   structure.   The motor is typically connected to mains
   power through wiring that extends through the shaft and
20 into the base assembly, and in use rotates the fan blades
    (typically by rotating a hub portion of the base assembly
   to which the fan blades are attached).
   Installation of a sweep fan is often difficult due to
25 variations in ceiling heights resulting in the need to
   vary the shaft length, the accessibility of the support
   structure, and the need to connect the power supply to the
   motor.
30
   Summary of the Invention
   In some embodiments, the disclosure provides a sweep fan

                              - 2
   assembly comprising: a base subassembly comprising
   electrical componentry, a shaft arranged to be coupled to
   the base subassembly to support the base subassembly from
   a support structure, electrical wiring including multiple
 5 wires extending along the length of the shaft and arranged
   in use to electrically connect the electrical componentry
   to a power source, and a first multi-wire coupling
   operative to allow rapid connection of the electrical
   wiring to the electrical componentry on coupling of the
10 shaft to the base subassembly.
   The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not
   intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the
   illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described
15 above, further aspects, embodiments and features will
   become apparent by reference to the drawings and the
   following detailed description.
20 Detailed Description of the Drawings
   Fig. 1 shows a sweep fan assembly;
   Fig. 2 shows a base subassembly of the sweep fan assembly
25 shown in Fig. 1;
   Fig. 3 shows a shaft of the sweep fan assembly shown in
   Fig. 1; and
30 Fig. 4 shows a first end of the shaft, that is arranged to
   couple to the base subassembly;
   Description of Preferred/Specific Embodiments

                               -  3
   In the following detailed description, reference is made
   to accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed
   description. The illustrative embodiments described in the
 5 detailed description, depicted in the drawings and defined
   in the claims, are not intended to be limiting. Other
   embodiments may be utilised and other changes may be made
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject
   matter presented. It will be readily understood that the
10 aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described
   herein and illustrated in the drawings can be arranged,
   substituted, combined, separated and designed in a wide
   variety of different configurations, all of which are
   contemplated in this disclosure.
15
   The disclosure is directed generally to sweep fans and to
   components for use in sweep fans.   Installation of a sweep
   fan is often difficult due to variations in ceiling
   heights resulting in the need to vary the length of the
20 shaft of the sweep fan  (which supports the base assembly
   off a supporting structure   (typically a ceiling)), the
   accessibility of the support structure, and the need to
   connect power supply to the motor.
25 Disclosed in some embodiments is a sweep fan assembly
   comprising a base subassembly comprising electrical
   componentry, a shaft arranged to be coupled to the base
   subassembly to support the base subassembly from a support
   structure, electrical wiring including multiple wires
30 extending along the length of the shaft and arranged in
   use to electrically connect the electrical componentry to
   a power source, and a first multi-wire coupling operative
   to allow rapid connection of the electrical wiring to the

   electrical componentry on coupling of the shaft to the
   base subassembly.
   In some forms, the shaft comprises opposite first and
 5 second ends, the first end being arranged to be coupled to
   the base subassembly and wherein a connector of the first
   multi-wire coupling which is connected to the electrical
   wiring is disposed at or adjacent the first end.
10 In some forms, a second multi-wire coupling is operative
   to allow rapid connection of the electrical wiring to the
   power source.  In some forms, a connector of the second
   multi-wire coupling which is connected to the electrical
   wiring is disposed at or adjacent the second end.
15
   In some forms, the sweep fan further comprising a
   mechanical coupling to couple the shaft to the base
   assembly. In a particular form the mechanical coupling is
   separate from the first multi-wire coupling.   In another
20 form, the mechanical coupling is integrated with the first
   multi-wire coupling.
   In some forms, the electrical componentry is either a fan
   motor or light or both.
25
   In some forms, the shaft is hollow and the electrical
   wiring extends through the hollow shaft.
   In some forms, one or more blades are mounted to, and
30 project outwardly from, the base sub assembly.
   In some forms, the shaft and base subassembly are arranged
   to be provided as separate items to allow the sweep fan

                               - 5
   assembly to have different lengths of the shaft by
   substitution of the shaft with a shaft of different
   length.
 5 Advantages of the at least one form of the sweep fan is
   that it allows for easier installation as the shaft can be
   separately coupled to the base assembly with the electric
   wiring being simply connected through the multi-wire
   coupling.
10
   In a further aspect, a shaft for a sweep fan assembly
   comprises a body having a first end and a second end,
   the first end comprising a first multi-wire coupling
   operative to allow rapid connection between electrical
15 componentry within a base subassembly to the electrical
   wiring.   In one form the second end of the shaft comprises
   a second multi-wire coupling operative to allow rapid
   connection between electrical wiring and a power source to
   electrically connect the electrical componentry to the
20 power source.
   In some forms, the shaft comprises a mechanical coupling
   at each end to couple the shaft to a fan motor assembly
   and a support structure.
25
   In a further aspect, the disclosure comprises a kit for a
   sweep fan assembly comprising: a base sub assembly
   comprising a electrical componentry, a shaft arranged to
   be coupled to the base subassembly to support the base
30 subassembly from a support structure, electrical wiring
   including multiple wires extending along the length of the
   shaft and arranged in use to electrically connect the
   electrical componentry to a power source, a first multi-

                                  - 6
   wire coupling,  the first    multi-wire coupling operative to
   allow rapid connection of the electrical wiring to the
   electrical componentry on coupling of the shaft to the
   base subassembly; and a set of instructions to assemble
 5 the sweep fan assembly.
   In yet a further aspect, the disclosure comprises a method
   of assembling a sweep fan assembly comprising the steps
   of: mechanically coupling a shaft to a base sub assembly,
10 wherein the base sub assembly comprises electrical
   componentry, electrically coupling electrical wiring to
   the electrical componentry, the electrical wiring
   including multiple wires extending along the length of the
   shaft arranged in use to electrically connect the
15 electrical componentry to a power source, and using a
   first multi-wire coupling to rapidly electrically couple
   the electrical wiring to the electrical componentry.
   Referring to Figs. 1 to 4, a sweep fan assembly 1 is
20 illustrated. The sweep fan assembly 1 comprises a
   plurality of components including a base subassembly 10, a
   shaft 20 that is arranged to be coupled to the base
   subassembly 10 to suspend the base subassembly 10 and
   sweep fan assembly 1 from a support structure      (not shown)
25 such as a ceiling or rafter or any other suitable
   structure, and a plurality of wires 30 that extend between
   the base subassembly and a power supply      (not illustrated).
   Whilst not shown, the sweep fan assembly 1 further
30 comprises a plurality of fan blades that are mounted to
   and project outwardly from the base sub assembly 10.      The
   fan blades  (not illustrated) may be foldably mounted to
   the base sub assembly, to be moved between an operative
   position and a stowed     (i.e. folded) position. Under

   operation of the fan motor, the fan blades are arranged to
   rotate about the shaft 20.
   The base sub assembly comprises a housing 11 and
 5 electrical componentry    (not shown) that is disposed
   within the housing 11.   The housing 11 is formed from a
   suitable material such as a plastics material, or metal.
   The electrical componentry is in one form, either a fan
   motor, or light or both. However as will be appreciated
10 other electrical componentry may be included including
   sensors and the like. The base subassembly 10 further
   comprises plurality electrical wires 43 that are connected
   to the electrical componentry.
15 As best seen in Fig. 3, the shaft 20 comprises a hollow
   body 21,  a first end 22 and a second end 23.   The first end
   22 of the shaft is arranged to be coupled to the base
   subassembly. The second end 23 of the shaft 20 is arranged
   to be coupled to a support structure. Electrical wiring 30
20 including multiple wires extend along the length of the
   shaft 20.  In the illustrated embodiment the multiple wires
   30 extend through the hollow shaft body and extend outward
   from each end of the shaft 20.
25 The sweep fan assembly 1 comprises a first multi-wire
   coupling 40 operative to allow rapid connection of the
   electrical wiring 30 to the wiring 43 of the electrical
   componentry on coupling the shaft 20 to the base
   subassembly 10.   The coupling 40 comprises interfitting
30 connectors 41 and 42   (as best seen in Fig. 1).   Connector
   41 is connected to the ends of the electrical wiring 30
   and incorporates respective terminals which are
   electrically connected to each of those wires.     Similarly

                                 - 8
   connector 42 is connected to the ends of the base
   subassembly electrical wiring 43.     Again the connector 42
   incorporates respective terminals which are electrically
   connected to each of those wires 43.    Interconnection of
 5 the connectors causes the respective terminals to move
   into contact thereby allowing for rapid electrically
   connection between the wiring 30 and the wiring 43.
   The sweep fan assembly 1 further comprises a second multi
10 wire coupling 44 operative to allow rapid connection of
   the electrical wiring 30 to the power source     (not shown).
   The second multi-wire coupling 44 comprises interfitting
   connectors   (only one 45 of which is shown).   Connector 45
   is connected to the opposite ends of the electrical wiring
15 30  (which project from the top of the shaft 20 and
   incorporates respective terminals which are electrically
   connected to each of those wires.     Similarly the other
   connector   (not shown) is connected to the ends of the
   electrical wiring    (not shown) connected to the power
20 supply.   Again this connector incorporates respective
   terminals which are electrically connected to each of
   those wires connected to the power supply. Interconnection
   of the connectors of the second coupling 44 causes the
   respective terminals to move into contact thereby allowing
25 for rapid electrically connection between the wiring 30
   and the power source wiring(not shown).
   With this arrangement, the first and second multi-wire
   couplings 40,   44 are positioned at opposite ends of the
30 shaft 20.
   The sweep fan assembly 1 also comprises first mechanical
   coupling 50 to couple the shaft 20 to the base sub

                              - 9
   assembly 10. In the illustrated embodiment the mechanical
   coupling 50 comprises a sleeve 51 to receive the first end
   22 of the shaft 20. The sleeve 51 includes an aperture 52
   within the sleeve to receive a fastener 55.  The first end
 5 22 of the shaft 20 also includes an aperture 53 that
   aligns with aperture 52 when the first end of the shaft 20
   is inserted into the sleeve 51.  The fastener passes
   through both apertures 52, 53 to mechanically couple shaft
   20 to the base subassembly 10.  In the embodiment shown the
10 first end 22 of the shaft 20 comprises a mechanical
   coupling that is separate to the first multi-wire coupling
   40 operative to allow rapid electrical connection between
   electrical componentry and electrical wiring by an
   installer.
15
   In other embodiments the mechanical coupling 50 may
   comprise two complementary connectors, one being
   positioned on the shaft and one being positioned on the
   base subassembly. In alternate embodiments the coupling
20 may comprise different types of connectors such as
   friction fit connectors or bayonet connectors or may
   comprise a pair of flanges being coupled together via one
   or more fasteners. It should be understood that any
   suitable type of mechanical coupler can be used to couple
25 the shaft 20 to the base subassembly.
   In another embodiment the sweep fan assembly can comprise
   an integrated mechanical and electrical coupling,
   positioned at the first end 22 of the shaft 20.  The
30 integrated electro-mechanical coupling is arranged to
   mechanically couple the shaft 20 to the base sub assembly
   10 as well as electrically couple the electrical
   componentry to the electrical wiring such that the

                               - 10
   electrical componentry is electrically connected to a
   power source. The integrated electro-mechanical coupling
   allows an installer to simultaneously mechanically couple
   the first end of the shaft 20 to the base subassembly 10
 5 and electrically couple the electrical componentry to the
   electrical wiring such that the electrical componentry and
   the motor are electrically coupled to a power source.
   The shaft 20 is also mechanically coupled to a support
10 structure to suspend the base subassembly from the support
   structure. In one embodiment the second end of the shaft
   20 mechanically coupled to the support structure via a
   bracket  (not illustrated).
15 The second end of the shaft 20 comprises a coupling
   portion 60, which is typically connected to the support
   bracket  (fixed to a ceiling or rafter).  The roof coupling
   portion may be any suitable mechanical connector such a
   friction fit coupler, a bayonet connector or any other
20 suitable mechanical coupler. In the illustrated embodiment
   the roof coupling portion 60 comprises a pair of holes 61
   formed in the second end 23 of the shaft 20.   The holes are
   aligned with each other to allow a bolt or other fastener
   to pass through the holes 61.   In the illustrated
25 embodiment the roof coupling portion 60 and the second
   multi-wire coupling 44 are separate from each other.
   In an alternative embodiment the roof coupling and the
   second multi-wire coupling 44 are integrated with each
30 other. The integrated roof coupling 60 and second multi
   wire coupling 44 allows simultaneous electrical connection
   of the electrical wiring to a power supply and mechanical

                               -  11
   connection of the second end 23 of the shaft 20 to a
   bearing or support structure.
   The base subassembly 10 and the shaft are arranged to be
 5 provided as separate items    (such as in a kit) to allow the
   sweep fan assembly to have different lengths of the shaft
   20 by substitution of the shaft 20 with a shaft of
   different lengths. The shaft 20    (of chosen length for a
   particular installation) can be easily connected to the
10 base subassembly 10 via the mechanical coupling 50 and the
   multi-wire coupling 40.  Once connected, the base
   subassembly 10 and shaft 20 can be readily installed using
   the second multi-wire connection and mechanical coupling
   as required.
15
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that
   numerous variations and/or modifications may be made to the
   invention as shown in the specific embodiments without
   departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as
20 broadly described.  The present embodiments are, therefore,
   to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not
   restrictive.

                               - 12
   CLAIMS:
   1.    A sweep fan assembly comprising:
         a base subassembly comprising electrical componentry,
 5       a shaft arranged to be coupled to the base
   subassembly to support the base subassembly from a support
   structure, electrical wiring including multiple wires
   extending along the length of the shaft and arranged in
   use to electrically connect the electrical componentry to
10 a power source, and
         a first multi-wire coupling operative to allow rapid
   connection of the electrical wiring to the electrical
   componentry on coupling of the shaft to the base
   subassembly.
15
   2.    The sweep fan assembly according to claim 1, wherein
   the shaft comprises opposite first and second ends, the
   first end being arranged to be coupled to the base
   subassembly and wherein a connector of the first multi
20 wire coupling which is connected to the electrical wiring
   is disposed at or adjacent the first end.
   3.      The sweep fan assembly according to claim 2, further
   comprising a second multi-wire coupling operative to allow
25 rapid connection of the electrical wiring to the power
   source.
   4.    The sweep fan assembly according to claim 3, wherein
   a connector of the second multi-wire coupling which is
30 connected to the electrical wiring is disposed at or
   adjacent the second end.
   5.    The sweep fan assembly according to any preceding

                               - 13
   claim ,  further comprising a mechanical coupling to couple
   the shaft to the base assembly.
   6.    The sweep fan assembly according to claim 5, wherein
 5 the mechanical coupling is separate from the first multi
   wire coupling.
   7.    The sweep fan assembly according to claim 5, wherein
   the mechanical coupling is integrated with the first
10 multi-wire coupling.
   8.    The sweep fan assembly according to any preceding
   claim wherein the electrical componentry is either a fan
   motor or light or both.
15
   9.    The sweep fan assembly according to any preceding
   claim wherein the shaft is hollow and the electrical
   wiring extends through the hollow shaft.
20 10.   The sweep fan assembly of any preceding claim further
   comprising one or more blades mounted to, and projecting
   outwardly from, the base sub assembly.
   11.     The sweep fan assembly according to any preceding
25 claim, wherein the shaft and base subassembly are arranged
   to be provided as separate items to allow the sweep fan
   assembly to have different lengths of the shaft by
   substitution of the shaft with a shaft of different
   length.
30
   12.   A shaft for a sweep fan assembly comprising:
   a body having a first end and a second end,
   the first end comprising a first multi-wire coupling

                              - 14
   operative to allow rapid connection between electrical
   componentry within a base subassembly to electrical
   wiring.
 5 13.   The shaft as per claim 12 wherein the second end of
   the shaft comprises a second multi-wire coupling operative
   to allow rapid connection between electrical wiring and a
   power source to electrically connect the electrical
   componentry to the power source.
10
   14.   The shaft as per any one of claims 12 to 13 wherein
   the shaft comprises a mechanical coupling at each end to
   couple the shaft to a fan motor assembly and a support
   structure.
15
   15.   A kit for a sweep fan assembly comprising:
         a base sub assembly comprising a electrical
   componentry,
         a shaft arranged to be coupled to the base
20 subassembly to support the base subassembly from a support
   structure,
         electrical wiring including multiple wires extending
   along the length of the shaft and arranged in use to
   electrically connect the electrical componentry to a power
25 source, and
         a first multi-wire coupling, the first multi-wire
   coupling operative to allow rapid connection of the
   electrical wiring to the electrical componentry on
   coupling of the shaft to the base subassembly
30       a set of instructions to assemble the sweep fan
   assembly.

                              - 15
   16.   A method of assembling a sweep fan assembly
   comprising the steps of:
         mechanically coupling a shaft to a base sub assembly,
   wherein the base sub assembly comprises electrical
 5 componentry,
         electrically coupling electrical wiring to the
   electrical componentry, the electrical wiring including
   multiple wires extending along the length of the shaft
   arranged in use to electrically connect the electrical
10 componentry to a power source,
         using a first multi-wire coupling to rapidly
   electrically couple the electrical wiring to the
   electrical componentry.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/2

