                                           Abstract
The present invention discloses a closure assembly for closing an opening in a building
defining a sealed outer surface, the closure assembly comprising a frame with an inward
face and an outward face and a perimetric sealing formation configured for sealing
engagement on and with the sealed outer surface of the building around the perimeter of
the opening, a sash supported by the frame at a depth in the frame outside the outward
face of sealing formation away from the sealed outer surface, such that, when installed in
the building in use, the sash is located completely external to the opening of the building.

                                              - 1
                                 CLOSURE FRAMING SYSTEM
            The present invention relates to a closure framing system. More particularly
but not exclusively it relates to a system for use in framing an opening in a building
construction.
            New Zealand has had recent problems with poor standards of residential
building construction, which have resulted in problems arising from these standards, such
as leaky buildings syndrome. Building code requirements have now overcorrected to
require several layers and/or fallback mechanisms to prevent ingress of rain water
behind the weatherline of a construction, to thereby prevent rotting of the structural
framing of the construction.
            As an example, and as illustrated in figure 1, initially a plastic lining or building
wrap 5010 is attached to the structural timber framing 5050 of the construction. The
plastic lining 5010 extends completely over the opening, such as a door opening or
window opening, and is then cut diagonally from corner to corner. The triangular sheets
are then folded around the timber framing inwardly and stapled down.
            A heavy flexible waterproof bitumen based or similar flashing tape 5015 is then
used to cover the lower sill corner portions and continuously along the sill, as well as the
upper corner portions of the opening.
            At this stage, a closure frame 200 (whether it is for a door or a window 1900)
is inserted into the opening. The closure frame 200 is aligned correctly by using shims
(not shown) between the head, jamb and sill and the closure frame 200. At this stage
reveal panels 5017 are connected to the frame by staples (not shown), and the reveal
panels (also called "reveals") are fastened to the covered framing members 5050 by
fasteners, such as screws or nails. A seal 300 in the form of a self expanding
polyurethane foam, or similar sealant, is then used to seal the gap between the reveal
and the plastic lining 5010.
            An outer cladding layer 5300 is then installed on the outer surface of the
building, leaving a cavity 5500 between the plastic sheeting and the inner surface of the
cladding. The cavity is open to the atmosphere at the base of the building, so that rain or
other casual water that gets past the outer cladding layer 5300 is able to dry out from
airflow through the cavity. Jamb scribers 5600 are typically also attached alongside the
frame 200 for aesthetic value, and to prevent casual water moving between the frame
200 and the outer cladding layer 5300. An internal cladding layer 5400 such as
drywalling is typically engaged with the reveal
            However, the large number of layers required to be set down, and the very
specific order of installation required in order to meet suitable standards for
waterproofing in New Zealand means that installation of closures such as doors and
windows can be labour intensive to install, and can become a bottleneck in the

                                              - 2
development, as this is a procedure that must be carried out before internal fixings can
be installed.
           In this specification, where reference has been made to external sources of
information, including patent specifications and other documents, this is generally for the
purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the present invention.
Unless stated otherwise, reference to such sources of information is not to be construed,
in any jurisdiction, as an admission that such sources of information are prior art or form
part of general knowledge in the art.
           For the purposes of this specification, the term "plastic" shall be construed to
mean a general term for a wide range of synthetic or semi-synthetic polymerization
products, and generally consisting of a hydrocarbon-based polymer.
           For the purpose of this specification, where method steps are described in
sequence, the sequence does not necessarily mean that the steps are to be
chronologically ordered in that sequence, unless there is no other logical manner of
interpreting the sequence.
           For the purposes of this specification, the term "casual water" shall be
construed to include but not be limited to liquid or solid water found in ambient
atmospheric conditions and includes, but is not limited to rain, sleet, and snow.
           For the purposes of this specification, the term "weatherline" shall be construed
to mean the sealed periphery of a building beyond which casual water is not movable
when the closures of that building are closed.
           It is an object of the present invention to provide a closure framing system and
components therefore which overcomes or at least partially ameliorates some of the
abovementioned disadvantages or which at least provides the public with a useful choice.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In a first aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building defining a sealed outer surface, the
closure assembly comprising
      a frame with an inward face and an outward face and a perimetric sealing formation
configured for sealing engagement on and with the sealed outer surface of the building
around the perimeter of the opening,
      a sash supported by the frame at a depth in the frame outside the outward face of
sealing formation away from the sealed outer surface, such that, when installed in the
building in use, the sash is located completely external to the opening of the building.
In one embodiment, the closure assembly includes a reveal connected with the frame
and extending from the inward face of the frame, the reveal in use extending into the

                                               -3
opening of the building.
           In one embodiment, the frame includes a sill with an upper surface facing the
sash and a channel in the upper surface, and drains extending from the channel through
the frame, the channel being located in the frame at a depth between the sash and the
sealing formation.
           In one embodiment, the sealing formation comprises a flange extending in a
plane parallel to the general plane of the opening, to overlap the outer surface of the wall
of the building around the outside of the opening.
           In one embodiment, the flange is continuous around the perimeter of the
frame.
           In one embodiment, the frame includes a head member, jamb members and a
sill member and each of the head jamb and sill members includes a flange portion that
are each part of the continuous flange.
           In one embodiment, the frame includes a corner member which connects
between a jamb member and a head member, and the corner member includes a flange
portion which is part of the continuous flange.
           In one embodiment, the flange portion of the corner member and the flange
portion of the respective jamb member overlap, with the overlapping portion of the
flange portion of the corner member being outside the overlapped portion of the flange
portion of the jamb member.
           In one embodiment, each drain leads into a conduit, and the conduit leads to
an exit adjacent the outward face of the frame.
           In one embodiment, the frame includes a corner member which connects
between a jamb member and a sill member and the corner member includes the conduit.
           In one embodiment, the jamb member comprises guide channels to guide
casual water from an upper corner member to a lower corner member.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
method of fitting a joinery unit to a building comprising the steps of:
      a) inserting a joinery unit partially into an opening in the wall of the building for a
         window or door, to a depth defined by a peripheral flange on the joinery unit;
      b) fixing the joinery unit through the flange onto the framing; and
         In one embodiment, providing a weather seal to span the abutment of the
contiguous surfaces of the flange and framing.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure assembly comprising
        a frame configured for being secured to the building,
        a sash supported in the frame,

                                             -4
        the frame including a head member and a sill member, a pair of jamb members
extending between the head member and the sill member, a depth stop portion which
sets a depth of insertion of the closure assembly into the opening of the building by
butting against an outside face of the building, and a head flashing portion above the
head member, extending from a plane substantially level with the depth stop portion to
an edge beyond an outward edge of the head member and sloping downward as it
extends outward.
           In one embodiment, the closure assembly includes an outwardly extending wall
portion above the head flashing portion, the outer edge of the wall portion defining a line
of outer extent, the wall portion including a plurality of gaps or openings behind the line
of outer extent, to form, alone, or in combination with a cladding in use, a plurality of
cavity outlets.
           In one embodiment, the wall portion includes a lip that extends upward and
inward to partially over hang one or more of the gaps or openings.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing portion includes a seal with the head
member along its length, and the head flashing portion is supported in a fixed manner at
either end relative to the head member, but is able to slide over the head member
between its ends to accommodate flexing of the head flashing portion.
           In one embodiment, the frame includes support members either end of the
head flashing portion, which extend to a location that is a distance above the upper
surface of the head flashing portion, such that a straight edge spanning between the
support members is spaced above the surface of the head flashing portion.
           In one embodiment, the support members are located on a corner member
which connects the head member and one of the jamb members.
           In one embodiment, the corner member also engages with the head flashing
portion and includes an end dam which provides a lip at a lateral end of the head flashing
portion.
           In one embodiment, a head flashing member includes the head flashing portion
and an outwardly extending wall portion above the head flashing portion, the outer edge
of the wall portion defining a line of outer extent, with the wall portion including a
plurality of gaps or openings behind the line of outer extent, to form, alone, or in
combination with a cladding in use, a plurality of cavity outlets, and the corner member
includes a cavity closer end dam which provides an upward lip at a lateral end of the
outwardly extending wall portion.
           In one embodiment, the cavity closer end dam includes a laterally extending,
upwardly open trough, the trough including a collection surface which slopes downward
in a direction toward the outwardly extending wall portion.

                                              - 5
            In one embodiment, the sill member includes a frame portion and a lower
supporting portion extending downward, fixable to the face of the building below the
opening in use.
            In one embodiment, the sash is located within the frame at a depth between an
outward face of the frame and the lower supporting portion, and the sill includes a brace
member extending from the lower supporting portion to the frame portion at a location
below or outward of the sash.
            In one embodiment, the frame includes flange members spaced outwardly from
the supporting portion and spaced inwardly from an outer face of the frame, the flange
members extending from the frame generally in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the
outer face of the frame.
            In one embodiment, the sill member includes a flange member extending
downward from the brace member at a location spaced from the supporting portion.
            In one embodiment, the frame includes a sealing portion around its perimeter,
the sealing portion extending from the frame to overlap the wall of the building around
the opening of the building in use, and to be secured against the outer surface of the wall
of the building, the sealing portion forming the depth stop portion.
            In one embodiment, the head flashing includes a lateral extension at either
end, each lateral extension being adjacent the outward edge of the flashing, and
extending beyond the lateral edge of the head member and jamb member.
            In one embodiment, the lateral extension defines, together with one of the
flange members of the frame, a gap for receiving an edge of a portion of cladding, and
the frame includes an adjustable return connected with the head flashing to be disposed
partially in the gap and to overlap the lateral extension, and to in use, be positioned
against the outer surface of the cladding.
            In one embodiment, the adjustable return includes a connection portion, a
flashing portion which overlaps the upper surface of the lateral extension of the head
flashing, and a flap portion which is flexible or movable such that the angle between the
flap portion and the flashing portion may conform to a corner angle of an end of a scriber
located under the lateral extension of the head flashing in use, with the flap portion
located between the scriber and a cladding.
            In one embodiment, the head flashing and head member include at least one
interengagement in the region between the ends, which substantially prevents separating
movement of the head flashing and the head member.
            In one embodiment, the interengagement comprises at least one inwardly
turned edge of the head flashing engaging below an outwardly extending edge of the
head member.
            In one embodiment, the frame includes upper corner connectors connecting the
head member and each of the jamb members.

                                             -6
            In one embodiment, the upper corner member is secured to the head and jamb
members by a combination of fasteners and, in at least one location not accessible for
inserting a fastener during or after assembly, a clip arrangement which self engages
upon assembly of the corner member to one of the jamb or the head member.
            In one embodiment, one or more of the head member and jamb members have
square cut ends.
            In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
method of manufacturing a joinery unit comprising:
      a) making a frame,
      b) assembling a head flashing to be supported by elements of the frame
      c) (after a)) assembling a sash to the frame, and
      after a), b) and c) packaging the joinery unit for transport.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises:
making a frame by connecting a head member to one end of each of a pair of jamb
members, using, in each case, a corner member, and connecting a sill member to one
end of each of the pair of jamb members using, in each case, a corner member.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises square cutting a head member from
a length of extruded head member stock.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises square cutting a sill member from a
length of extruded sill member stock.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises square cutting jamb members from
lengths of extruded jamb member stock.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises assembling the head flashing to one
or more of the corner connectors before or the same time as assembling the corner
connectors and the head member.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises manufacturing a sill member by
extruding a sill stock including a supporting brace portion, subsequently cutting a length
of the sill stock and removing an end portion of the supporting brace portion at either
end of the cut length of sill stock, such that the sill member thus formed may receive a
corner member at either end.
            In one embodiment, the method comprises connecting a reveal to the frame.
            In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure frame assembly
comprising
        a frame configured for being secured to the building,

                                               - 7
        the frame including a head member and a sill member, a pair of jamb members
extending between the head member and the sill member, and a support bar integrally
formed with the sill member, configured to be secured to the building to support a
substantial amount of the weight of the closure assembly.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure frame assembly
comprising
        a frame configured for being secured to the building,
        the frame including a head member and a sill member, a pair of jamb members
extending between the head member and the sill member, and depth stops for locating
the frame at a fixed depth within the opening, the jambs including a cavity seal flange
located on the jamb to be spaced off the wall with the frame inserted in the opening to
the depth defined by the depth stops, but back from an outer face of the frame, to define
a channel for receiving the end portion or portions of cladding between the cavity seal
flange and the outer face of the frame.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure frame assembly
comprising
            a. a frame configured for being secured to the building,
            b. the frame including a head portion including an upstand portion in a plane
                generally parallel to the plane of the frame, and intended in use to rest
                with an inward face against a face of the wall of the building, and a cavity
                closer member extending substantially perpendicular from an outward face
                of the upstand portion, to, in use span a gap between the building and the
                back of the cladding.
           In one embodiment, the cavity closer member includes an outer edge defining
a line of outer extent, and gaps or holes within the line of outer extent which, in use will
let casual water run through or past the cavity closer member.
           In one embodiment, the cavity closer member includes a lip extending upward
and inward to at least partially overhang one or more of the openings or holes.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building with an outer cladding layer, the
closure assembly comprising a frame with at least a jamb frame member, a head frame
member and a connector comprising
               0   a sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer sealed surface of
                   the building at least partially around the periphery of the opening,
               0   the sealing flange including an overlapping portion configured to

                                              -8
                  operationally overlap with a flange on one or more selected from
                      o   a jamb frame member; and
                      o   a head frame member.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building with an outer cladding layer, the
closure assembly comprising a frame with at least a jamb frame member, a head frame
member and a connector comprising
               -  a sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer sealed surface of
                  the building at least partially around the periphery of the opening,
               *  the sealing flange including an overlapping portion configured to
                  operationally overlap with a flange on one or more selected from
                      o   a jamb frame member; and
                      o   a head frame member.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closing assembly comprising
               " a frame with an exterior surface intended to be outside the exterior
                  cladding of a building when installed, an interior surface intended to be
                  exposed to the interior of the building when installed and peripheral
                  surfaces intended to be exposed to the interior of a cavity between the
                  cladding and sealed frame of the building when installed,
               *  portions of the interior surface and peripheral surfaces configured and
                  adapted to guide casual water, along predetermined paths to a conduit
                  located towards the bottom of the frame,
               .  the conduit including an opening in the peripheral surfaces of the frame,
                  such that when installed, this opening is to the interior of the cavity, an
                  opening in the exterior surfaces of the frame for discharging casual
                  water collected received at the conduit exterior of the cladding, and an
                  opening in the interior surfaces of the frame for receiving casual water,
                  with the exterior surface opening being lower than the interior surface
                  opening and the peripheral surface opening, such that water received
                  through the interior surface opening may discharge through the exterior
                  surface opening.
           In one embodiment, the conduit is defined by surfaces of a combination of
parts of the frame.

                                              -9
           In one embodiment, the frame includes a jamb member and a sill member, and
the conduit is defined at least in part within a corner member that connects with both the
jamb member and the sill member.
           In one embodiment, the conduit is defined in part by a collection trough and
the opening in the peripheral surfaces is defined by an edge of the collection trough and
by a surface of a jamb member.
           In one embodiment, the frame includes a sill member, and the collection trough
extends under a portion of the sill member, and the opening in the inside surfaces of the
frame comprises an opening through the sill member.
           In one embodiment, the sill member includes a collection channel and the
opening in the inside surfaces of the frame is in the base of the collection channel.
           In one embodiment, the opening is immediately at an end of the collection
channel and is defined by an edge of the sill member and a face of an adjacent jamb
member.
           In one embodiment, the trough extends beyond the interior edge of the
collection channel and the wall defining the interior end of the trough reaches a level
above the level of the bottom of the collection channel.
           In one embodiment, the jamb member includes a flange portion and the trough
includes an extension that surrounds the lower end of the flange portion, with a gap
between the edge of the trough and surfaces of the flange portion, so that casual water
on the flange portion may be received into the trough.
           In one embodiment, the trough includes flow surfaces which all fall toward the
exterior surface opening.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
closure assembly for closing an opening in a building with an outer cladding layer, the
closure assembly comprising a frame with at least a jamb frame member, a head frame
member and a head flashing member above the head frame member, and a connector
comprising
               *  an end stop formation configured for at least partially restricting flow of
                  casual water along the length one or more selected from the head frame
                  member and the head flashing member; and
               *  securing formations for securely coupling a jamb frame member and
                  one or more selected from
                      o  a head frame member, and
                      o  a head flashing frame member.

                                              - 10
           In one embodiment, the connector overhangs the jamb frame member, and
includes a surface sloped to lead from the overhang toward the jamb frame member,
terminating adjacent the surface of the jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the head member includes a collection channel, and the
connector includes one or more apertures or notches aligned with an end of the collection
channel, level with the base of the collection channel.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement for connecting a jamb frame member and a head frame member
of a closure frame assembly for closing an opening in a building having an outer cladding
layer, the connecting arrangement comprising
               *   a sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer sealed surface of
                   the building at least partially around the periphery of the opening,
               *   the sealing flange including an overlapping portion configured to
                   operationally overlap with a flange on one or more selected from
                       o   a jamb frame member;
                       o   a head flashing member; and
                       o   a head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange extends between jamb frame member
and the head flashing member.
            In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement further comprises a flashing
flange extending in a substantially parallel plane as the sealing flange, but spaced a
distance from the sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange is configured for overlapping with a
similarly aligned flashing flange on one or more of the head frame member, the head
flashing member and the jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange comprises an overlapping portion for
overlapping with a similarly aligned flashing flange on one or more of the head frame
member, the head flashing member and the jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange extends between jamb frame member
and the head flashing member
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement is configured for connecting a
head flashing member to one or more selected from the jamb frame member and the
head frame member, and the sealing flange of the connecting arrangement is configured
to overlap with the head flashing member.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is configured to overlap with
substantially parallel or coplanarly aligned sealing flanges on one or more selected from
               *   the jamb frame member;
               " the head flashing member; and
               " the head frame member

                                              - 11
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange comprises a flared portion that extends
coplanarly with the rest of the flashing flange for facilitating the prevention of ingress of
casual water behind the outer cladding layer of the building.
           In one embodiment, the building defines an outer sealed surface, and the
sealing flanges extend parallel to the plane of the outer sealed surface around the
periphery of the opening.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises at least one or
more securing formations for securely coupling a jamb frame member to one or more
selected from:
               *   a head frame member, and
               *   a head flashing frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises a conduit for
guiding flow of casual water between an inlet and an outlet.
           In one embodiment, the overlapping portions on the sealing flange extend
outwardly of the said one selected from the
                       o    jamb frame member;
                       o     head flashing member; and
                       o     head frame member.
           In a second aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising a
head frame member and a jam frame member secured to each other with a connection
member as herein before described.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising a jam
frame member having a sealing flange to lie against the building frame and parallel the
plane of the opening, and a sealing flange (second sealing flange) located above and in
partial overlap with said sealing flange of said jam member to guide water draining from
above the sealing flange of the jam member onto the outer facing surface of thereof.
           In one embodiment, the closure frame includes a head frame member
comprising a sealing flange (head sealing flange) to lie against the building frame and
parallel the plane of the opening, the second sealing flange partially overlapping said
head sealing flange outwardly of the head sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the building frame includes building frame members (e.g.
posts, studs, lintels, sills etc) outside of which a wrap is provided, the sealing flange of
the jam member located outside of and against the wrap.

                                              - 12
           In one embodiment, the building frame includes building frame members (e.g.
posts, studs, lintels, sills etc) outside of which a wrap is provided, the head sealing flange
located outside of and against the wrap.
           In one embodiment, the second sealing flange is in partial overlap to the
outside of both the head sealing flange and the sealing flange of the jam member.
           In one embodiment, the second sealing flange intermediate of said overlap
region(s) lies against the wrap.
           In a further aspect the present invention consists in a door or window frame to
be received at an building frame defined opening of a building, the frame including a jam
frame member that includes a sealing flange (jam sealing flange) to lie parallel with the
plane of the opening and against the building frame, the upper end of the jam frame
member being overlapped by a sealing flange that extends upwardly from said jam
sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the upper end of the jam sealing flange is a horizontal
edge.
           In one embodiment, the upper edge of the jam sealing flange does not
protrude above a like sealing flange of a head jam member.
           In one embodiment, the jam sealing flange can receive fasteners for securing
the frame to the building frame.
           In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement suitable for connecting a jamb frame member and one selected
from a head frame member and a sill frame member of a closure frame assembly for
closing an opening in a building having an outer cladding layer, the connecting
arrangement comprising
               " a sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer surface at least
                   partially around the periphery of the opening; and
               *   a flashing flange extending in a plane substantially parallel to the
                   sealing flange, but spaced a distance from the sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises at least one or
more securing formations for securely coupling a jamb frame member and one or more
selected from
               " a head frame member, and
               -   a head flashing frame member.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange comprises a flared portion that extends
coplanarly with the rest of the flashing flange for facilitating the prevention of ingress of
casual water behind the outer cladding layer of the building.

                                            - 13
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is configured for abutment with an outer
surface at least partially around the periphery of the opening, the sealing flange being
configured to overlap operationally with a flange of one or more selected from the
               *   jamb frame member and the
               *   head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connector comprises a conduit for guiding flow of
casual water between an inlet and an outlet.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising a
head frame and a jam frame connected together by a connection assembly as defined
above.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising a jam
frame member comprising a primary sealing flange to located against the building frame
member and parallel the plane of the opening and a flashing flange member located
intermediate of the sealing flange an cladding of said building.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange extends parallel to the plane of the
opening.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange is spaced apart from and extends
parallel the sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is secured to the building frame using
fasteners (preferably penetrative fasteners).
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange has a free edge that extends vertically
and parallel the plane of the opening.
           In one embodiment, a lip or channel is provided at the free edge to discourage
water draining down the front face of the flashing flange from flowing behind the front
face.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange as a free edge that extends vertically
and parallel the plane of the opening.
           In one embodiment, the free edge of the sealing flange includes a lip that
extends inwardly.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a jam frame member for a closure frame to be received at a building frame defined
opening said jam frame member comprising a primary sealing flange to located against

                                              - 14
the building frame member and parallel the plane of the opening and a flashing flange
member located intermediate of the sealing flange an cladding of said building.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange extends parallel to the plane of the
opening.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange is spaced apart from and extends
parallel the sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is secured to the building frame using
fasteners (preferably penetrative fasteners).
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange has a free edge that extends vertically
and parallel the plane of the opening.
           In one embodiment, a lip or channel is provided at the free edge to discourage
water draining down the front face of the flashing flange from flowing behind the front
face.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange as a free edge that extends vertically
and parallel the plane of the opening.
           In one embodiment, the free edge of the sealing flange includes a lip that
extends inwardly.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a frame
member for a closure frame assembly suitable for framing an opening in a building
presenting an outer sealed surface at least partly around the periphery of the opening,
the closure frame member comprising
               " a first formation configured to present a sealing surface for abutment
                   operationally with an outer sealed surface of the building at or toward
                   the periphery of the opening;
               " a second formation extending in a direction parallel to the first flange
                   and spaced a distance from the sealing surface, the second formation
                   presenting an abutment surface configured to space (and preferably for
                   abutment with an inner surface of) an outer cladding layer associated
                   with the building, to thereby define a cavity between the sealed outer
                   surface and the outer cladding layer.
           In one embodiment, the first formation is a first flange formation.
           In one embodiment, the second formation is a second flange formation.
           In one embodiment, the frame member is configured to be secured to another
frame member.
           In one embodiment, the frame member is configured to be secured to an
adjacent frame member by a connecting arrangement.

                                             - 15
           In one embodiment, the first is configured for alignment with similarly aligned
parallel or coplanar flanges on one or more selected from the connecting arrangement
and the adjacent frame member.
           In one embodiment, the frame member is one or more selected from:
               * a jamb frame member
               *   a head flashing member
               " a sill frame member; and
               *   a head frame member.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame as herein above described.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement for a closure frame assembly for closing an opening in a building
with an outer cladding layer, the closure frame assembly comprising at least a jamb
frame member, a head frame member and a head flashing member mountable on the
head frame member in a sliding manner, the connecting arrangement comprising
               *   at least one or more securing formations for securely coupling a jamb
                   frame member to one or more selected from
                       o   a head frame member, and
                       o   a head flashing member.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises a
               *   sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer surface at least
                   partially around the periphery of the opening, and
               " a flashing flange extending in a plane substantially parallel to the
                   sealing flange, but spaced a distance from the sealing flange
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is configured for abutment with an outer
surface at least partially around the periphery of the opening, the sealing flange being
configured to overlap operationally with a flange on one or more selected from the
               " jamb frame member and the
               " head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connector comprises a conduit for guiding flow of
casual water between an inlet and an outlet.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising head

                                             - 16
frame and a jam frame and head flashing connected to each other using the connector as
herein before described.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement for a closure frame assembly for closing an opening in a building
with an outer cladding layer, the closure frame assembly comprising at least a jamb
frame member, a head frame member and a head flashing member mountable on the
head frame member in a sliding manner, the connecting arrangement comprising
               *   an end stop formation configured for at least partially restricting flow of
                   casual water along the length one or more selected from the head frame
                   member and the head flashing member; and
               " securing formations for securely coupling a jamb frame member and
                   one or more selected from
                       o  a head frame member, and
                       o  a head flashing frame member.
           In one embodiment, the end stop member is configured to extend operationally
to a position aligned with or outwardly of an inner surface of said building outer cladding
layer.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises securing
formations for securing the connecting arrangement to two or more selected from
               " a head flashing member,
               " a head frame member, and
               *   a jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is configured for abutment with an outer
surface at least partially around the periphery of the opening, the sealing flange being
configured to overlap operationally with a flange on one or more selected from the
               *   jamb frame member and the
               *   head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the jam frame member is as herein described.
           In one embodiment, the head frame member is as herein described.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement further comprises a flashing
flange for extending in a substantially parallel plane as the sealing flange, but spaced a
distance from the sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange is to locate at least partially
intermediate of the sealing flange and outer building cladding.
           In one embodiment, the connector comprises a conduit for guiding flow of
casual water between an inlet and an outlet.

                                             - 17
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising head
frame and a and jam frame and head flashing connected to each other using the
connecting arrangement as herein before described.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement suitable for connecting a jamb frame member and one or more
selected from a head flashing member and a head frame member of a closure frame
assembly suitable for framing at least part of the periphery of an opening in a building,
the building having an outer cladding layer, the connecting arrangement comprising
               *   a connector member comprising
                       o   an end stop formation configured for at least partially restricting
                           flow of casual water off an end of said one or more selected from
                           a head flashing member and head frame member; and behind
                           the outer cladding layer; and
                       o   securing formations for securing the connector member to one or
                           more selected from a head flashing member, a head frame
                           member and a jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises a conduit for
guiding flow of casual water between an inlet and an outlet.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement suitable for connecting a jamb frame member and one or more
selected from a head flashing member and a head frame member of a closure frame
assembly suitable for framing at least part of the periphery of an opening in a building,
wherein the connecting arrangement is configured and adapted for
               *   receiving casual water from one or more selected from
                       o   the head flashing member and
                       o   the head frame member; and
               -   guiding said casual water down the connecting arrangement to contact
                   the jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises one or more
drainage passage configured and adapted for allowing casual water to drain from one or
more selected from the head flashing member and the head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the drainage passage(s) comprise one or more selected
from:
               " conduits,
               e   apertures, and

                                             - 18
               *   recesses.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises tapered or sloping
formations for guiding casual water onto the jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement includes an end stop member
for stopping flow of casual water sideways along the head flashing member.
           In one embodiment, the end stop member extends along the head flashing to a
position aligned with or outwardly from an inner surface of the outer cladding layer.
           In one embodiment, the building comprises an outer cladding layer that at least
partially encloses a cavity and the connecting arrangement comprises an end stop
formation for preventing casual water from running into the cavity from one or more
selected from the head flashing member and the head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange is configured to create an overlap
operationally with a similarly aligned and flashing flange on one or more selected from
the head frame member and the jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises a conduit for
guiding flow of casual water between an inlet and an outlet.
           In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement is configured to guide casual
water into an enclosed conduit in the jamb frame member.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a conduit
suitable for connecting a jamb frame member and a sill frame member of a closure frame
assembly suitable for framing at least part of the periphery of an opening in a building,
the conduit comprising
               " inlet formations configured for at least partially defining an opening for
                   receiving casual water moving down the jamb frame member; and
               " at least one or more outlet formation configured for at least partially
                   defining an outlet for casual water received operationally.
           In one embodiment, the conduit comprises engaging formations for engaging
with complementary engaging formations on one or more selected from the jamb frame
member and the sill frame member to at least locate the connecting arrangement against
said one or more selected from the jamb frame member and the sill frame member.
           In one embodiment, the building comprises an outer cladding layer and the
outlet is configured to deposit water to one or more selected from
               " a point outside of said outer cladding layer; and
               " a point on an inner surface of said outer cladding layer.
           In one embodiment, the jamb frame member and the sill frame member
engage against each other at a lower interface, and the conduit is configured for
receiving casual water moving between said interface and guiding the casual water to the
outlet.

                                            - 19
           In one embodiment, the conduit comprises at least one or more securing
formations for securing the conduit to one or more selected from
               .   the jamb frame member, and
               *   the sill frame member.
           In one embodiment, the conduit may be configured for receiving water running
down a hollow cavity in a jamb frame member.
           In one embodiment, the conduit defines the opening together with the jamb
frame member.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement for connecting at least a sill frame member and a jamb frame
member of a closure frame assembly suitable for framing at least part of the periphery of
an opening in a building, the lower connecting arrangement comprising
               *   a connector member configured for snug engagement with at least the
                   sill frame member ;
               *   the connecting arrangement being configured to define a mouth
                   extending outwardly from the jamb member in operation for receiving
                   one or more selected from drops of casual water falling alongside the
                   jamb member, and drops of casual water running down the jamb frame,
                   and guiding said water to a predetermined outlet point.
           In one embodiment, the lower connecting arrangement is configured to
securely couple the jamb frame member and the sill frame member.
           In one embodiment, the lower connecting arrangement comprises at least one
or more securing formations for securing the connecting arrangement to one or more
selected from
               " the jamb frame member, and
               *   the sill frame member.
           In one embodiment, the lower connecting arrangement comprises a conduit
portion into which casual water is received.
           In one embodiment, the lower connecting arrangement comprises an outlet
from which casual water received into the conduit portion is able to egress the conduit
portion operationally.
           In one embodiment, the building comprises an outer cladding layer that at least
partly encloses a cavity behind the outer cladding layer, and the lower connecting
arrangement is configured to operationally deposit water from the outlet at one or more
positions selected from
               " outwardly of the outer cladding layer
               " against an inner surface of the outer cladding layer.

                                            - 20
          In one embodiment, the lower connecting arrangement may be configured for
receiving water running down a hollow cavity in a jamb frame member.
          In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a framing
system for framing at least part of the periphery of an opening in a building comprising
an outer cladding layer that at least partly encloses a cavity, the framing system
comprising
              *   a frame configured and adapted to guide casual water on the periphery
                  of the frame along predetermined paths to guide said casual water to
                  one or more predetermined points of departure from the frame.
          In one embodiment, the points of departure are outlets.
          In one embodiment, the outlets are located at a lower zone in operation.
          In one embodiment, the outlets are apertures defined by the frame.
          In one embodiment, the frame comprises one or more selected from:
              *   a head frame member;
              " a jamb frame member;
              *   a sill frame member;
              *   a connecting arrangement;
              " a conduit; and
              *   a head flashing member.
          In one embodiment, the frame comprises at least one or more reservoir for
receiving and guiding flow of casual water.
          In one embodiment, the reservoir is a container.
          In one embodiment, the reservoir is defined by one or more connecting
arrangement.
          In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement is as herein defined.
          In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a framing
system for framing at least part of the periphery of an opening in a building, the framing
system comprising
              " a plurality of frame members engageable with adjacent frame members
                  at least one or more an engaging interfaces;
              " wherein at least one or more of the frame members comprises a recess
                  formation disposed along at least part of an engaging interface, and
                  recessed relative to the engaging interface, the recess formation being
                  configured and dimensioned to at least partially prevent movement of
                  casual water along the interface by capillary action.

                                            - 21
          In one embodiment, one of the adjacent frame members comprises a recess
formation.
          In one embodiment, both adjacent frame members comprise a recess
formation.
          In one embodiment, the adjacent frame members are coupled or coupleable to
each other.
          In one embodiment, the adjacent frame members are coupled or coupleable to
each other by a connecting arrangement.
          In one embodiment, the adjacent frame members are coupled or coupleable to
each other by a connecting arrangement to hold the frame members in abutment with
each other.
          In one embodiment, the framing system comprises one or more selected from
a receptacle, a connector arrangement and a conduit configured for receiving casual
water moving through said recess and/or said interface, and for guiding the received
casual water to an outlet.
          In one embodiment, the one or more selected from a receptacle, a connector
arrangement and a conduit are as herein defined.
          In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement suitable for coupling a sill frame member and a jamb frame
member in abutment at an engaging interface, the sill member and jamb frame member
being part of a closure frame assembly suitable for framing at least part of the periphery
of an opening in a building, the connecting arrangement comprising
              *   a conduit member configured for receiving casual water leaking though
                  the engaging interface, and guiding the water to an outlet; and
              0   securing formations for securing the conduit member to one or more
                  selected from a sill frame member and a jamb frame member.
          In one embodiment, the conduit member is configured for directing the casual
water operationally to an outlet.
          In one embodiment, the building comprises an outer cladding layer that at least
partly encloses a cavity behind the outer cladding layer, and the lower connecting
arrangement is configured to operationally deposit water from the outlet at one or more
positions selected from
              " outwardly of the outer cladding layer
              " against an inner surface of the outer cladding layer.
          In one embodiment, the conduit member comprises apertures for providing for
the operational equalisation of air pressure within the conduit with air pressure at the
outlet.

                                              - 22
           In one embodiment, at least one or more recess is provided at the interface to
drain casual water at the interface, and the connecting arrangement is configured for
receiving water through the recess(es).
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a receptacle
for use in a frame sealing system for a closure frame assembly suitable for framing at
least part of the periphery of an opening in a building in a manner to define a sealed
weatherline through which casual water is not penetrable when the closure is in a closed
condition, the closure frame assembly comprising a first frame member and a second
frame member abutting each other at an interface, the receptacle comprising
                *  engaging formations configured for facilitating the snug engagement of
                   at least part of the receptacle with one or more selected from the first
                   frame member and the second frame member; and
                *  a conduit portion for receiving casual water moving between/along the
                   interface, and guiding the received casual water operationally to deposit
                   said casual water outside of the weatherline.
           In one embodiment, the conduit portion is configured for receiving casual water
moving between/along the interface from a point inside the weatherline.
           In one embodiment, the receptacle comprises an outlet portion.
           In one embodiment, the receptacle comprises securing formations for securing
the receptacle to one or more selected from the first frame member and the second
frame member.
           In one embodiment, the receptacle comprises securing formations for securing
the receptacle to the first frame member and the second frame member, to at least
partly facilitate secure connection of the first frame member to the second frame
member.
           In one embodiment, at least part of the periphery of the receptacle defines the
weatherline of the building.
           In one embodiment, the outlet portion comprises at least one or more outlet
formation defining an outlet.
           In one embodiment, the outlet formation is configured for snug engagement
with one or more selected from the first frame member and the second frame member.
           In one embodiment, the receptacle comprises pressure equalisation apertures
for equalising the pressure within the receptacle and atmospheric pressure.
           In one embodiment, the receptacle comprises sealing formations for sealing
engagement with one or more selected from the first frame member and the second
frame member.
           In one embodiment, the sealing formations are integrally formed with the
engaging formations.

                                             - 23
           In one embodiment, the engaging formations comprise a sealing flange
configured for engaging with an outer sealed surface of the building.
           In one embodiment, the sealing flange is configured for alignment with similar
sealing flanges on one or more selected from the first frame member and a second frame
member.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a frame
sealing system for a closure frame assembly suitable for framing at least part of the
periphery of an opening in a building, the frame sealing system comprising
               *    a first frame member and
               *    a second frame member,
               " the first frame member and second frame member abutting each other
                    at an interface; and
               *    a conduit configured to be snugly engaged with one or more selected
                    from the first frame member and the second frame member, and for
                    receiving casual water moving between the interface, and guide it to an
                    outlet.
           In one embodiment, the conduit portion is configured for receiving casual water
moving between/along the interface from a point inside the weatherline.
           In one embodiment, the container comprises securing formations for securing
the container member to one or more selected from the first frame member and the
second frame member.
           In one embodiment, the container comprises securing formations for securing
the container member to the first frame member and the second frame member, to at
least partly facilitate secure connection of the first frame member to the second frame
member.
           In one embodiment, at least part of the periphery of the container defines the
weatherline of the building
           In one embodiment, the first frame member and the second frame member
extend transversely to each other to form a corner of the closure frame assembly.
           In one embodiment, the container comprises securing formations for securing
the container member to the first frame member and the second frame member, to at
least partly facilitate secure coupling of the first frame member to the second frame
member.
           In one embodiment, at least part of the periphery of the container defines the
weatherline of the building.
           In one embodiment, the outlet portion comprises at least one or more outlet
formation defining an outlet.

                                             - 24
           In one embodiment, the outlet formation is configured for snug engagement
with one or more selected from the first frame member and the second frame member.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a closure
frame assembly for framing at least part of the periphery of an opening in a building, the
frame assembly comprising
               " a plurality of frame members coupled or coupleable to each other at
                   coupling zones, and comprising formations for sealed abutment at or
                   towards the periphery of an opening in a construction to be closed by
                   the closure at a sealed weatherline around its periphery, and
               *   wherein the weatherline deviates inwardly at least at one or more
                   coupling zones in order to manage casual water leaking between the
                   coupled frame members at the coupling zones.
           In one embodiment, the water leaking between the interface is leaking from a
point inside the weatherline inside the building.
           In one embodiment, the closure frame assembly comprises at least one or
more conduit or receptacle for receiving water leaking through the interface.
           In one embodiment, the closure frame assembly comprises connecting
arrangements configured to secure one or more frame members to each other.
           In one embodiment, the conduit and the connecting arrangement are integrally
formed.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a frame
member for a closure frame assembly suitable for framing an opening in a building that is
clad by an outer cladding layer and comprises an interior wall, the frame member
comprising
               " a frame portion configured for at least partially framing an opening in a
                   building, and
               *   a reveal portion configured for operationally extending into the opening
                   of the building, and configured to conceal at least part of the reveal of
                   the opening between the exterior outer cladding layer and interior wall
                   of the building.
           In one embodiment, the reveal portion is configured to engage with
plasterboard.
           In one embodiment, the frame portion and reveal portion are integrally formed.
           In one embodiment, the frame member is an extruded member.
           In one embodiment, the frame member is composed of aluminium.
           In one embodiment, the reveal portion is removably securable or secured to
the frame portion.

                                             - 25
           In one embodiment, the reveal portion is removably securable or secured to
the frame portion by a securing arrangement.
           In one embodiment, the securing arrangement comprises securing formations
and complementary securing formations.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
frame assembly for use in a frame for closing an opening in a building, the head frame
assembly comprising
               *   a head frame member; and
               *   a head flashing member configured to shield at least part of the head
                   frame member from casual water;
               " wherein the head frame member and head flashing member are
                   engageable with each other in a sealed manner.
           In one embodiment, at least part of the head frame member and the head
flashing member are movable relative each other operationally.
           In one embodiment, at least part of one of the head frame member and the
head flashing member are vertically movable relative to each other operationally.
           In one embodiment, the building comprises a sealed outer surface, and the
head flashing member is configured to be abutted with the sealed outer surface.
           In one embodiment, and the head flashing member comprises a cavity closer
formation for preventing the ingress of pests onto the cavity between the head flashing
and the outer cladding layer of the building.
           In one embodiment, one or more of the head frame member and head flashing
member are configured for connection to a connecting arrangement.
           In one embodiment, the head frame assembly comprises a connecting
arrangement.
           In one embodiment, the location of at least part of the head frame member
and at least part of the head flashing member are adjustable relative to each other by
means of an adjustable fastener.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises an eave formation
for shield at least part of the head frame member from casual water.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
flashing member for facilitating the framing of an opening in a building clad by an outer
cladding layer, the head flashing member comprising engaging formations for slidably
engaging with a head frame member in an at least vertically adjustable sealed manner.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises an eave formation
for at least partially shielding the head frame member from casual water.

                                            - 26
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises securing formations
for securing the head flashing member to a connecting arrangement at either or both
ends.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises an integrated cavity
closer formation for facilitating the prevention of ingress of pests behind the outer
cladding layer of the building.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
flashing member for facilitating the framing of an opening in a building clad by an outer
cladding layer, the head flashing member for use with one or more selected from a jamb
frame member and a head frame member, the head flashing member comprising
                   securing formations for securing the head flashing member to a
                   connecting arrangement at either or both ends to thereby secure the
                   head flashing member to one or more of said jamb frame member and
                   head frame member.
           In one embodiment, at least part of the head flashing member is configured for
sealing engagement with the head frame member.
           In one embodiment, at least part of the head flashing member is configured for
slidable sealing engagement with the head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises an integrated cavity
closer formation for facilitating the prevention of ingress of pests behind the outer
cladding layer of the building.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises an adjustable
fastener for adjusting the position of at least part of the head flashing member relative to
the head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the adjustable securing formation is configured for
securing the head flashing member to a head frame member.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member is elongate in nature and
defines two ends, and the adjustable securing formation is disposed intermediate the
ends of the head flashing member.
           In one embodiment, the adjustable securing formation comprises a threaded
formation that is adjustable by a screw thread cooperating with a complementary screw
thread.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
flashing member for facilitating the framing of an opening in a building having an outer
cladding layer, the head flashing member comprising an eave formation comprising an
extending portion configured to extend laterally outwardly of the outer cladding layer of
the building, and along an outer surface of the outer cladding layer.

                                            - 27
          In one embodiment, the eave formation is configured for covering a top of a
jamb scriber located at or towards a side of the opening.
          In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement for use in a frame assembly for closing an opening in a building
having an outer cladding layer at least partly enclosing a cavity, the connecting
arrangement comprising
              *   a connector member comprising
                      o   securing formations configured for securing the connecting
                          arrangement operationally to one or more selected from a head
                          flashing member and a head frame member, the one or more
                          selected from a head flashing member and head frame member
                          comprising a drainage channel extending along their length; and
                      o   an end stop formation for operationally preventing flow of casual
                          water from the drainage channel into the cavity.
          In one embodiment, the connecting arrangement comprises securing
formations for securing the connecting arrangement to a jamb frame member.
          In one embodiment, the end stop formation guides flow of casual water from
the drainage channel to run down a jamb member.
          In one embodiment, the end stop formation guides flow of casual water from
the drainage channel to an outlet outside of the outer cladding layer.
          In one embodiment, the end stop formation guides flow of casual water from
the drainage channel onto an eave formation on the head flashing member to run off the
eave formation.
          In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a
connecting arrangement for use in a frame assembly for closing an opening in a building
having an outer cladding layer, the connecting arrangement
              *   being configured for securely connecting a head flashing member, and
                  at least one or more selected from
                      o   a jamb frame member, and
                      o   a head frame member;
              " wherein the head flashing member comprises an eave formation
                  configured to extend laterally outwardly of the outer cladding layer of
                  the building at an extending portion, and the connecting arrangement
                  comprises an adjustable shielding formation for at least partially
                  covering a gap between the extending portion and an outer surface of
                  the outer cladding layer.

                                             - 28
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
flashing member for facilitating the framing of an opening in a building comprising an
outer cladding layer and framing, the outer cladding layer and framing defining a cavity
between them, the head flashing member comprising
               -   an eave formation for at least partially shielding the head frame
                   member from casual water, and
               " an integrally formed cavity closer formation for facilitating the
                   prevention of the ingress of pests and/or causal water between the
                   frame and the outer cladding layer;
               *   wherein the head flashing member is configured for being securely
                   coupled to a head frame member for framing an upper portion of the
                   opening operationally.
           In one embodiment, the integrated cavity closer formation includes draining
slots for draining casual water from its top surface.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member is configured for being securely
coupled to a head frame member by a fastener.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises engaging formations
for sealably engaging with complementary sealing engaging formations on the head
frame member.
           In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises engaging formations
for sealably engaging with complementary sealing engaging formations on the head
frame member in a sliding fashion.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
frame assembly comprising
               " a head frame member comprising
                       o   an engaging arrangement configured for engaging with a sealing
                           member along at least part of the length of the head frame
                           member; and
               *   a sealing member engageable with the engaging arrangement, the
                   sealing member configured for creating a sealing engagement
                   substantially along the length of the head frame member against one or
                   more selected from:
                       o   a head flashing member , and
                       o   a soffit member.
           In one embodiment, the head frame assembly comprises a head flashing
member.

                                               - 29
            In one embodiment, the head flashing member presents a pair of engagement
surfaces configured for engaging with an outer surface of a building and a lower surface
of a soffit panel.
            In one embodiment, the head flashing member comprises an eave formation
for shielding the head frame member from casual water.
            In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
frame member comprising an engaging arrangement configured for engaging with at
least part of a sealing member along at least part of the length of the head frame
member, the sealing member being configured for providing a sealing engagement with a
head flashing member.
            In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a head
flashing assembly comprising
                *   a head flashing member, and
                *   a head frame member;
                " wherein the head flashing member is movably engageable against at
                    least part of the head frame member in a sealed fashion.
            In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a frame
assembly for facilitating the closure of an opening in a building comprising a sealed frame
presenting a sealed outer surface, the frame assembly comprising
                " a fixed portion configured and adapted for being fastened to a sealed
                    outer surface of the building at or towards the periphery of the opening;
                " a movable portion configured and adapted for sealing engagement with
                    the fixed portion in a direction at least parallel to the sealed outer
                    surface of the building operationally.
            In one embodiment, the movable frame member is configured for supporting
one or more selected from a window and door.
            In one embodiment, the building movable frame member is configured and
adapted for sealing engagement with the sealing flange in a direction transverse to the
sealed outer surface of the building.
            In one embodiment, the fixed portion is configured for sealing engagement
with the movable portion by an engaging arrangement.
            In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement extends at least partly around
the periphery of the movable portion.
            In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement comprises engaging formations
and complementary engaging formations configured for engaging with each other.

                                             - 30
           In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement comprises engaging formations
and complementary engaging formations configured for engaging with each other in a
slidable sealed fashion.
           In one embodiment, one of the fixed portion and the movable portion
comprises several engaging formations spaced in a direction transversely to the plan e of
the closure, to thereby allow selection of the engaging formations for engagement by
complementary engaging formations on the other of the fixed portion and the movable
portion, to thereby allow the movable portion to be adjusted to extend further from the
opening.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a frame
member for facilitating the framing of an opening in a building, the frame member
comprising
               *   a framing portion configured for framing the opening of the building at
                   or towards the periphery of the opening,
               *   a reveal portion configured for extending inwardly of the opening as a
                   reveal; and
               " a connecting formation extending outwardly of the opening from the
                   reveal at or towards an inner region of said building, said connecting
                   formation configured for connection to the building.
           In one embodiment, the connecting formation extends outwardly of the
opening at a distance that allows for the connecting formation to be inserted behind
internal cladding in the building.
           In one embodiment, the internal cladding is dry walling.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a sill frame
member for a closure assembly for use in closing an opening in a building, wherein the
sill frame member comprises
               *   a supporting flange member configured for abutment against a sealed
                   outer surface of the building at or towards the lower periphery of the
                   opening;
               *   wherein the supporting flange member comprises fastening formations
                   for fastening the supporting flange to the outer surface; and
               " wherein the sill frame member is configured and adapted to support the
                   closure assembly on the fastening formations.
           In one embodiment, the sill frame member comprises a substantially diagonally
extending support member for at least partly facilitating support of the closure assembly
by the sill member.
           In one embodiment, the sill frame member is an extruded member.
           In one embodiment, the sill frame member is composed of aluminium.

                                              - 31
           In one embodiment, the support member and the supporting flange are
integrally formed.
           In one embodiment, the supporting flange comprises fastening formation for
fastening the supporting flange to the sealed outer surface of the building.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a sill frame
member for location operationally against a sill of an opening in an outer wall or floor of a
building, the sill frame member comprising
               *    a sealing flange for operational location against an outer surface of the
                    building,
               *    the flange comprising one or more selected from:
                        o   seal locating formations configured and adapted for locating a
                            seal formation against an outer sealed surface of the building in a
                            sealed manner operationally; and
                        o   a seal formation attached or attachable to the sealing flange for
                            abutment operationally against an outer surface of the building.
           In one embodiment, the sill frame member comprises a seal formation.
           In one embodiment, the seal formation extends at least partly along the length
of the sealing flange.
           In one embodiment, the seal formation comprises a foot portion and s sealing
portion.
           In one embodiment, the seal formation extends operationally between the
sealing flange and the outer sealed surface.
           In one embodiment, the building comprises an outer cladding layer that at least
partially encloses a cavity between the outer cladding layer and an outer surface of the
building framing, and the sill frame member also comprises a flashing flange for
operational location adjacent or towards an inner surface of the outer cladding layer.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange and the sealing flange are substantially
parallel.
           In one embodiment, the planes of the flashing flange and the sealing flange are
parallel to the outer sealed surface of the building.
           In one embodiment, the flashing flange and the sealing flange are spaced a
distance approximate to the width of the cavity.
           In one embodiment, the seal is foam tape that is adhered to the sealing flange.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a closure
frame assembly for closing an opening in a building defining a sealed outer surface, the
closure frame assembly comprising

                                             - 32
               *   at least one or more frame member, at least one or more of the frame
                   members comprising
                       o   a sealing formation adapted and configured for sealing
                           engagement with the sealed outer surface in operation,
                       o   wherein the sealing formation is located at or towards an inner
                           region of the frame members operationally.
           In one embodiment, the frame comprises a plurality of frame members.
           In one embodiment, each of the sealing formation presents a sealing surface
for abutment with the sealed outer surface in operation.
           In one embodiment, the sealing formations of the frame members extend
substantially coplanarly with each other.
           In one embodiment, the sealing formations of the frame members extend
substantially coplanarly with the sealed outer surface of the building.
           In one embodiment, the sealing surfaces of the sealing formations extend
substantially coplanarly with the sealed outer surface of the building.
           In one embodiment, the frame members engage with each other at coupling
zones.
           In one embodiment, the frame members engaged with each other in the
coupling zones abut at engaging interfaces.
           In one embodiment, the frame closure assembly comprises at least one or
more sealing formations configured for sealing the engaging interfaces at least at a
location inwardly of the sealing formations operationally.
In one embodiment, the frame closure assembly comprises at least one or more
receptacles for receiving casual water leaking between the interfaces.
           In a further aspect, the invention may be said to broadly consist in a closure
frame assembly for closing an opening in a building defining an outer surface, the closure
frame assembly comprising
               *   at least one outer frame member configured for being secured to the
                   building; and
               "    at least one inner frame member that is configured for at least partially
                   framing a closure;
               e   a engaging arrangement configured for engaging the outer frame
                   member with the inner frame member in a sealing fashion.
           In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement is configured for engaging the
outer frame member with the inner frame member in a movable sealing fashion.

                                           - 33
           In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement is configured for engaging the
outer frame member with the inner frame member in a slidably sealing fashion.
           In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement comprises engaging formations
engageable with complementary engaging formations.
           In one embodiment, the frame closure assembly comprises a plurality of outer
frame members.
           In one embodiment, the frame closure assembly comprises a plurality of inner
frame members.
           In one embodiment, the outer frame members are configured to frame the
periphery of the opening operationally.
           In one embodiment, each outer frame member is associated with an inner
frame member.
           In one embodiment, the engaging arrangement comprises a seal formation.
           In one embodiment, at least one of the inner frame member and the outer
frame member is configured for being secured to a seal formation, and the other of said
inner frame member and outer frame member is configured to present a sealing surface
against which the seal is sealingly engageable.
           In one embodiment, the engaging formation is a seal formation.
           In one embodiment, the complementary engaging formation is one or more
selected from a
               .   channel formation;
               *   L-shaped formation;
               *   or the like.
           In one embodiment, the inner frame member is slidably movable relative to the
outer frame member in at least a direction parallel to the plane of the closure.
           In one embodiment, the inner frame member is slidably movable relative to the
outer frame member in at least a direction transverse to the plane of the closure.
           In one embodiment, the one of the inner frame member and the outer frame
member comprises a plurality of engaging formations against which complementary
engaging formations on the other of the inner frame member and the outer frame
member are engageable, wherein at least two of the plurality of engaging formations are
spaced from each other in a distance transverse to the plane of the opening.
           In one embodiment, the closure frame assembly comprises at least four outer
frame members configured as a rectangle and at least four inner frame members
configured as a rectangle, wherein the inner frame members are sealingly engaged with
the outer frame members to move at least in a direction parallel to the plane defined by
the outer frame members.
           In one embodiment, the inner frame members and the outer frame member
overlap operationally in the plane of the opening.

                                            - 34
           In a further aspect the present invention may broadly be said to be a closure
frame assembly to be received at a building frame defined opening of a building structure
that includes a lintel or header member, the closure frame assembly comprising a head
flashing member to be secured to the lintel or header member and a horizontal head
frame member to hold a closure (e.g. window or door or the like) engaged with the head
flashing in a floating yet sealed manner at least intermediate of its terminal ends.   In a
further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in a building that
includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a closure frame for
providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising head frame and a jam
frame and a head flashing connected to each other using the connecting arrangement as
herein before described.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising head
frame and a jam frame connected to each other using the connecting arrangement as
herein before described.
           In a further aspect the present invention may be broadly be said to consists in
a building that includes a building frame defined opening at which there is received a
closure frame for providing a closure to said opening said closure frame comprising sill
frame and a jam frame connected to each other using the connecting arrangement as
herein before described.
           In one embodiment, the jam frame and head frame and sill frame are adapted
and configured to hold a closure (e.g. window or door or other panel like member).
           In one embodiment, the panel like member is planar and in a closure closing
condition are parallel the plane of the building opening.
           In one embodiment, the boundary between the weatherside of the closure
frame and the inside of the closure frame is defined at the plane of the building opening.
           Other aspects of the invention may become apparent from the following
description, which is given by way of example only and with reference to the
accompanying drawings.
           As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
           As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of
the noun.
           The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means
"consisting at least in part of". When interpreting statements in this specification [and
claims] which include that term, the features, prefaced by that term in each statement,
all need to be present but other features can also be present. Related terms such as
"comprise" and "comprised" are to be interpreted in the same manner.

                                             - 35
           The term "sash" as used in this specification and claims means all types of
panels that can fit within a frame of a window of door. The sash for example can be the
single or glazed glass panels, or the door itself. I.e. the sash can include any panel that
fills the gap in a building hole.
           This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and
features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or
collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more of said parts, elements or
features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known
equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed
to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.)
           To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in
construction and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will
suggest themselves without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the
appended claims. The disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and
are not intended to be in any sense limiting.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The invention will now be described by way of example only and with reference
to the drawings in which:
            Figure 1: shows a cutaway top view of a prior art jamb frame member;
            Figure 2: shows a schematic perspective view of a lower connecting
arrangement;
            Figure 3: shows a front top perspective view of an upper left head frame
assembly of a closure frame assembly from the front;
            Figure 4: shows a rear top perspective view of an upper left head frame
assembly of a closure frame assembly from the rear;
            Figure 5: shows a top perspective view of an upper left head frame assembly
of a closure frame assembly from the side;
            Figure 6: shows a front view of an upper left head frame assembly of a
closure frame assembly;
            Figure 7: shows a side view of an upper left head frame assembly of a closure
frame assembly;
            Figure 8: shows a top view of an upper left head frame assembly of a closure
frame assembly;
            Figure 9: shows a cutaway side view of an upper left head frame assembly of
a closure frame assembly from the centre of the head frame member;

                                           - 36
           Figure 10:        shows a top perspective view of an upper left head frame
assembly of a closure frame assembly from the side in operation with an outer cladding
layer;
            Figure 11:       shows a cutaway side view of an upper left head frame
assembly of a closure frame assembly in operation showing the outer cladding layer;
            Figure 12:       shows a front view of an upper left head frame assembly of
a closure frame assembly in operation showing the outer cladding layer;
            Figure 13:       shows a top perspective view of an upper left head frame
assembly of a closure frame assembly from the side, with the upper connecting
arrangement removed;
            Figure 14:       shows a top perspective view of an upper left head frame
assembly of a closure frame assembly from the side, with the upper connecting
arrangement and head flashing member removed;
            Figure 15:       shows a top view of an upper left head frame assembly of a
closure frame assembly, with the upper connecting arrangement and head flashing
member removed;
            Figure 16:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member and
window installed operationally on a building;
            Figure 17:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building;
            Figure 18:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building;
            Figure 19:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a building;
            Figure 20:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building;
            Figure 21:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building;
            Figure 22:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member mounted
on a sill of a building;
            Figure 23:       shows a cutaway side view of a head frame member and
head flashing member installed in operation up against a soffit;
            Figure 24:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 25:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building;
            Figure 26:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a concrete sill;

                                            - 37
            Figure 27:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a building;
            Figure 28:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 29:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building;
            Figure 30:       shows a cutaway side view of a head frame member
installed in operation up against a soffit with a window;
            Figure 31:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 32:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a concrete sill;
            Figure 33:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 34:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 35:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 36:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 37:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 38:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 39:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a concrete sill with a window;
            Figure 40:       shows a cutaway side view of a sill frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 41:       shows a cutaway top view of a jamb frame member installed
operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 42:       shows a cutaway side view of a head flashing member and
head frame member installed operationally on a building with a window;
            Figure 43:       shows a perspective top rear view of a frame showing the
jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 44:       shows a perspective lower front view of part of a frame
showing the head frame assembly, jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;

                                         - 38
            Figure 45:     shows a perspective upper rear view of part of a frame
showing the head frame assembly, jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 46:     shows a perspective top front view of part of a frame for a
deviated weatherline showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 47:     shows a perspective lower front view of part of a frame for a
deviated weatherline showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 48:     shows a side cutaway view of a frame showing the head
frame assembly, jamb frame member, sill frame member and lower connecting
arrangement assembled;
            Figure 49:     shows a close-up cutaway side view of the lower portion of
figure 48
            Figure 50:     shows a perspective top front view of part of a frame
showing the head frame assembly, jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 51:     shows a perspective rear bottom view of part of a frame
showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement and sill frame member
assembled;
            Figure 52:     shows a perspective front top view of part of a frame
showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement and sill frame member
assembled;
            Figure 53:     shows a perspective front bottom view of part of a frame
showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement and sill frame member
assembled;
            Figure 54:     shows a perspective rear bottom view of part of a frame for
a deviated weatherline showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 55:     shows a perspective rear bottom view of part of a frame
showing the head frame assembly, jamb frame member, lower connecting arrangement
and sill frame member assembled;
            Figure 56:     shows another embodiment of a perspective view of an
upper right head frame assembly of a closure frame assembly from the front;
            Figure 57:     shows another embodiment of a perspective view of an
upper right head frame assembly of a closure frame assembly from the side;
            Figure 58:     shows another embodiment of a perspective view of an
upper right head frame assembly of a closure frame assembly from the front without a
head flashing;

                                            - 39
           Figure 59:         shows another embodiment of a top view of an upper right
head frame member and jamb member fixed together;
           Figure 60:         shows another embodiment of a shows a perspective top
front view of part of a frame showing the jamb frame member, lower connecting
arrangement and sill frame member assembled;
           Figure 61:         shows another embodiment of a perspective lower front view
of part of a frame with a deviated weatherline showing the jamb frame member, lower
connecting arrangement and sill frame member assembled;
           Figure 62:         shows another embodiment of a cutaway side view of a head
flashing member and head frame member installed operationally on a building with a
window;
           Figure 63:         shows another embodiment of a cutaway side view of a sill
frame member installed operationally on a building with a window;
           Figure 64:         shows another embodiment of a cutaway top view of a jamb
frame member installed operationally on a building with a window;
           Figure 65:         shows a cutaway side view of a mullion block connector
installed operationally on a building with a window;
           Figure 66:         shows another embodiment of a perspective lower front view
of a mullion block connector;
           Figure 67:         shows another embodiment of a cutaway top view of a jamb
frame member with a deviated weatherline installed operationally on a building with a
window;
           Figure 68:         shows another embodiment of a cutaway side view of a head
flashing member and head frame member with a deviated weatherline installed
operationally on a building with a window; and
           Figure 69:         shows another embodiment of a cutaway side view of a sill
member with a deviated weatherline installed operationally on a building with a window.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           With reference to the above drawings, in which similar features are generally
indicated by similar numerals, a closure frame assembly according to a first aspect of the
invention is generally indicated by the numeral 1000.
           In one embodiment now described, there is provided a closure frame assembly
1000. The closure frame assembly 1000 incorporates a frame 1100 utilising a framing
system as will be described below.
           The closure frame assembly 1000 comprises a frame 1100 that is made up a
of a series of elongate closure frame members 1500 as will be described below,
preferably coupled by connecting arrangements as will be described in more detail below.

                                             - 40
Each frame member 1500 is preferably composed of extruded aluminium or other
suitable material, although the use of plastic material is envisaged, as well as the use of
injection moulding instead of extrusion as a manufacturing process for the forming of the
frame members. The connecting arrangements are preferably injection moulded from a
plastic material. The connecting arrangements could also be composed of some other
mouldable or castable substance, such as aluminium or steel. The use of other moulding
processes is also envisaged as a possibility, such as rotational moulding, blow moulding
or even casting (if the connecting arrangement is composed of a metallic material) is also
envisaged.
           Each frame member 1500 is generally coupled with other closure frame
members 1500 at coupling zones 1200, where they are preferably held in abutment with
each other, and engage with each other at interfaces as will be described in more detail
below.
           The closure frame assembly 1000 generally also includes a sash, such as one
or more of a door (not shown) or window 1900 in order to close an opening 5100 in a
building 5000, although other closure means such as panelling are also anticipated. The
buildings being referred to in this specification are typically of the types used for
residential housing in Australia and New Zealand, although it will be appreciated that the
invention may be useful for other construction types.
           Such typical residential housing typically comprises a frame structure
composed of timber (or other material) building frame members 5050. The timber frame
structure is covered with a sealed plastic sheet 5010, also known as building wrap, which
is typically waterproof and /or configured to provide a water barrier. It may allow airflow
through it, which forms a sealed outer surface 5200 of the building 5000. An outer
cladding layer 5300 is then overlaid over the sealed outer surface 5200. The outer
cladding layer 5300 is typically composed of a tough and weatherproof substance, such
as weather board, or a cladding that simulates brickwork, or the like. The outer cladding
layer may at least partly enclose a cavity 5500 between the sealed outer surface 5200, in
order to allow for airflow behind the cladding and to dry out any leakage that may have
made its way behind the outer cladding layer 5300. The spacing of the cavity 5500 from
the sealed outer surface 5200 is usually defined by batons 5550 (shown in figure 24)
that are fastened to the sealed outer layer. Leakage of water into the cavity 5500 is
prevented by the sealed plastic sheet 5010 which prevents rotting the building frame
members 5050. Airflow through the cavity then dries the water leakage up.
           The closure frame assembly 1000 provides for the framing of the opening 5100
while providing a waterproof sealed weatherline (shown as reference line A in the
figures) of the frame against the sealed outer surface 5200 as will be described in more
detail. The weatherline A is defined by the sealed periphery of the closure frame
assembly 1000. In general, the weatherline A is provided in a single plane coinciding

                                             - 41
with plane of the sealed outer surface of the building, except for certain deviations from
that plane as will be explained below. Preferably the sash or window pane is located
within the frame at a depth between an outward face of the frame and plane of the
weatherline. The sash is supported by the frame at a depth in the frame between the
outward face of the frame and the sealing formation, such that, when installed in the
building in use, the sash/door or window is located external to the opening of the
building.
           It is envisaged that the framing system will replace the requirement for
providing multiple layers of waterproofing when constructing a building by providing a
frame 1100 utilising a framing system that is designed specifically for the purpose of
managing casual water, such as rain, snow or hail, that is incident on the building at
expected incident angles or running down a face side of a building, and of an intensity
that may be encountered during extreme weather conditions.
           It is envisaged that the frame and framing system so provided will also allow
for convenient installation onsite as a single delivered frame, without excessive
preparation work, as the frame itself is designed to provide for the bringing under control
and subsequent management of casual water that is incident on the frame 1100 to guide
casual water along predetermined paths to one or more predetermined points of
departure from the frame, such as outlets at a lower region outside of the weatherline,
as will be described below. Preferably any such outlets will be defined by the frame, and
the control and management of casual water may include the use of reservoirs (such as
containers or container members) for receiving and guiding flow of casual water.
           It envisaged that by designing the frame to be sealed against the sealed outer
surface 5200 of the building 5000, and to manage incident causal water in this way,
significant cost and labour advantages can be obtained, both in installation of the closure
frame assembly 1000, and in manufacture of the closure frame assembly 1000.
           The frame 1100 generally comprises at least a pair of jamb frame members
1550 for operational installation in a vertical alignment around part of the periphery of
the opening 5100, and preferably in alignment with a vertically aligned lip or edge of the
periphery 5110. The frame 1100 further comprises a head frame member 1630 for
operational location in a substantially horizontal alignment along the horizontal periphery
of the building opening, at or towards an upper side of the opening, and a sill frame
member 1560, for operational location in a substantially horizontal alignment along the
horizontal periphery 5110 of the building opening 5100, at or towards a lower portion of
the opening. The head frame member 1630 and the sill frame member 1560 are coupled
with the respective jamb frame members 1550 to preferably completely frame the
periphery 5110 of the opening 5100 as an endless formation.
           In one embodiment, the extruded jamb frame members may comprise one or
more enclosed hollow conduits (not shown) within them. Such hollow conduits could be

                                           - 42
used to guide casual water from an upper region of the frame to a lower region in a
controlled manner as will be described below.
           The jamb members may be enclosed and hollow or not hollow as shown in
figures 14 and 59 respectively.
           The head frame member 1630 includes a collection channel, and the connector
includes one or more apertures or notches aligned with an end of the collection channel,
level with the base of the collection channel to allow for passage of water from the
collection channel to be managed.
           The head frame member 1630 will be coupled to the jamb frame member 1550
by an upper connecting arrangement 1300, which will secure the head frame member
and the jamb frame member to each other, while preferably holding them in snug
engagement with each other at an upper interface 1601.
           The upper connecting arrangement 1300 preferably further rigidly couples a
head flashing member 1700 to the jamb frame member 1550 and the head frame
member 1630.
           The upper connecting arrangement 1300 may be secured to the ends of the
jamb head frame member and head flashing by fasteners, such as screws. However the
head flashing is not accessible to screws where necessary clips 1051 are integrated into
the upper connecting arrangement 1300 to clip to one of the members, such as the jamb
frame member 1550 as shown in figure 58. Preferably the clips 1051 are push or snap
type clips that engage in detents or holes in the member when the parts are assembled.
           The head flashing member 1700, and the head frame member, and preferably
the upper connecting arrangement 1300 together make up a head frame assembly 1600,
as will be described in more detail below.
           The jamb frame member 1550 and the sill frame member 1560 are rigidly
coupled to each other by a lower connecting arrangement 1400, to hold the sill frame
member 1560 and the jamb frame member 1550 in snug engagement and abutting with
each other at a lower interface 1570.
           Sealing flange
           The jamb frame members 1550, the sill frame member 1560, the head flashing
member 1700, the upper connecting arrangement 1300 and the lower connecting
arrangement 1400 each preferably comprise a sealing flange 1554, 1564, 1705, 1320
and 1420 for operational engagement against the sealed outer surface 5200 of the
building at or towards the periphery of the opening. It is envisaged that such sealing
flanges may be securely connected to the building frame members 5050 of the building
5000 over the sealed plastic sheet 5010 by means of fasteners such as screws 1050 (as
shown in figure 17) that are fastened through fastening formations in each of the
sealing flanges 554, 1564, 1705, 1320 and 1420.

                                               - 43
            After this, it is envisaged that the sealing flanges 554, 1564, 1705, 1320 and
1420 will be at least partially overlaid with a sealing layer 1010, which is also preferably
a self adhesive, such as bitumen based tape, or the like, to thereby seal the outer edges
of the sealing flanges 554, 1564, 1705, 1320 and 1420 and the fastening formations
from ingress of casual water. In this way, it can be seen that the outer periphery of the
closure frame assembly 1000 is sealed against the sealed outer surface 5200 of the
building 5000, to form a weatherline that is substantially coplanar with the sealed outer
surface 5200, with some deviations as will be explained below.
            In alternative embodiments there is adhesive or fixed insulating or weather
tight/ hermetic sealing strips intermediate the sealing flanges and the building surface.
The strips preferably are adhesive strips that adhere to either the sealing flange, the
building, or both. The strips may be composed of closed cell foam or other suitable
material.
            In alternative embodiments there is no auxiliary sealing mechanism apart from
the frame itself, wherein the sealing flange 1564 is fixed hard to the building framing
with no additional seals, such as tape or foam strip, and provides a sufficient enough seal
in itself to satisfy performance requirements.
            It will be appreciated that the term "sealing flange" as used in this specification
is intended to be used loosely to include other suitable formations configured for
presenting an adequate surface against which a sealing tape or similar can be applied,
and includes, but is not limited to flanges with additional ancillary formations extending
from the flange.
            The sealing flange 1564 of the sill frame member 1560 may be further adapted
to seal against a concrete or cement sill 5800 as shown in figure 26 (for example
where the closure fame assembly 1000 includes a door). Such a concrete or cement sill
5800 would not be typically covered by the sealed plastic sheet 5010, and would not
facilitate the adhesion of a self adhesive sealing tape where the sill frame member was
located against such a sill. In such a case, the sill frame member 1560 will preferably
comprise seal locating formations 1566 and a seal formation 1567. The seal locating
formations 1566 are configured and adapted for operationally locating the seal formation
1567 against the sealed outer surface 5200 of the sill.
            It is envisaged that the seal formation 1567 and seal locating formations 1566
will extend substantially along the entire length of the sill frame member 1560. The seal
formation comprises a foot portion 1568 and a sealing portion 1569. The foot portion
1568 engages with and is located by the seal locating formations 1566. The sealing
portion extends towards the sealed outer surface 5200, to seal against it. In this way,
casual water is prevented from moving upwardly between the sealing flange 1564 and
the sealed outer surface 5200, whether by capillary motion or driven by wind or the like.

                                             - 44
           It is further envisaged that a sealing formations such as a foam patch (not
shown) may be provided for sealing the lower corners, or the entire length, of the frame
between the seal formation 1567 and the bitumen sealing layer 1010 where it is between
the sealing flange of the jamb frame member and the concrete sill 5800. In this way it is
envisaged that a leak in the sealed weatherline will be prevented from occurring.
           The sealing flange 1564 of the sill frame member 1560 also acts as a
supporting flange member for supporting the weight or at least a large part of the weight
of the closure frame assembly 1000, and accordingly similar reference numerals are used
to describe them. The supporting flange member 1564 is configured for abutment
against the sealed outer surface 5200 of the building 5000 at or towards the lower
periphery 5110 of the opening 5100. The supporting flange member 1564 comprises
fastening formations 1563 for fastening the supporting flange to the sealed outer surface,
preferably by fasteners 1565, such as screws. It will be appreciated that wherever screw
type fasteners have been described, appropriate alternative fasteners could also be used.
           Support member
           In order to facilitate the support of the weight or at least a large part of the
weight of the closure frame assembly 1000, the sill frame member 1560 comprises a
substantially diagonally extending support member 1561 that extends between the
supporting flange member 1564 and a frame portion 1562 (shown in figure 19) of the
sill frame member 1560. The frame portion is configured to engage with and preferably
guide a closure or sash such as a door or window 1900. Preferably the diagonally
extending support member 1561, the supporting flange member 1564 and the frame
portion 1562 are all integrally formed, and preferably composed of extruded aluminium.
However in an alternative embodiment (not shown), the diagonally extending support
member 1561, the supporting flange member 1564 and the frame portion 1562 may be
securely connectable to each other via connecting formations (not shown) In this way a
sill frame member may be assembled as part of the closure frame assembly off site,
without having the handling and logistics problems of having to provide and assemble a
separate supporting structure, as is currently provided on site.
           Flashing flange
           Further; the jamb frame members 1550, the upper connecting arrangement
1300 and the lower connecting arrangement 1400 each preferably also comprise a
flashing flange 1552, 1340 and 1430. The sill frame member 1560 and the head frame
member 1630 may also comprise such a flashing flange in an alternative embodiment
(not shown). The flashing flange 1552, 1340 and 1430 provides an engagement surface
against which an inner surface 5310 of the outer cladding layer is engageable. The
flashing flange 1552, 1562, 1340 and 1430 is preferably located at a distance d (as
shown in figure 11) from the sealing flange. The distance d defines the width of the

                                             - 45
cavity that is being enclosed by the outer cladding layer and is typically expected to be
between 20 mm and 50mm in width, although larger widths are also envisaged.
           In another embodiment, it is envisaged that no such flashing flanges may be
provided where no cavity is required. This would be the case where, for example,
claddings are used that fix directly to the sealed outer surface.
           The flashing flanges 1552, 1340 and 1430 preferably extend generally in a
common plane around the periphery of the closure frame assembly.
           The flashing flange 1430, located on the sill member preferably acts as a drip
edge. The drip edge prevents water from running to the bottom of the diagonally
extending support member 1561, as the water forms a drip at the flashing flange 1430
and falls of behind the cladding.
           In particular embodiments it is envisaged that the flashing flange 1430 is only
a drip edge and does not support the cladding at all.
           In further embodiments the flashing flanges 1552 1340 do not support or
engage with the cladding, and are more a 'middle line of defence' to prevent water from
the wet side of the jamb flashing from entering into the dry side, i.e. the dry cavity.
           It will be appreciated that the term "flashing flange" as used in this
specification is intended to be used loosely and may include other suitable formations
configured for presenting an abutment surface against which an outer cladding layer can
be abutted to define a cavity between the outer cladding layer and the sealed outer
surface, and includes, but is not limited to flanges with additional ancillary formations
extending from the flange.
           The sealing flanges 554, 1564, 1705, 1320 and 1420 also preferably extend in
a common plane, and preferably in the same plane as the sealed outer surface 5200. It
is envisaged that in a preferred embodiment, the common plane of the flashing flanges
1552, 1562, 1340 and 1430 and the common plane of the sealing flanges 554, 1564,
1705, 1320 and 1420 will lie substantially parallel to each other, and preferably be
separated by distance d to define the width of the cavity 5500 between them.
           It is envisaged that the jamb frame members 1550, the sill frame member
1560 and optionally the head frame member 1630 will include a cladding receiving
channel 1505 into which an edge of the outer cladding layer 5300 is receivable. In this
way, the outer lip 1506 of the cladding receiving channel acts to shield the gap between
the edge and the frame members to restrict water ingress between them. The head
flashing member 1700 could also include a flashing flange in an alternative embodiment
(not shown). Such a flashing flange for the head flashing member 1700 may have dual
benefits in acting as a flashing flange, and as a cavity closer formation 1720 to prevent
ingress of pests (not shown) into the cavity 5500, as will be described in more detail
below.
           Head frame assembly

                                             - 46
           The head frame assembly 1600 comprises the head frame member 1630 and
head flashing member.
           In one embodiment, the head frame assembly 1600 is an integral unit (not
shown). In this embodiment the head flashing member, or sealing flange associated
with the head flashing member is fixed to the lintel. The head flashing member in this
embodiment is able to slide vertically with respect to the lintel. The sliding ability can be
provided by fixing the head member to the lintel by vertically slotted fixing holes.
            In a preferred embodiment the head frame member 1630 is securely
connected to the head flashing member by the upper connecting arrangement 1300. The
connection or interengagement of the head frame member 1630 and head flashing
member may also or otherwise comprise at least one inwardly turned edge of the head
flashing engaging below an outwardly extending edge of the head member.
           The head frame member 1630, as well as the other closure frame members
1500 are substantially elongate and preferably function to provide seating for one or
more closures such as a door or a window, which in turn may have their own frame (not
shown).
           The head flashing member 1700 comprises the sealing flange 1705 which is
securely fastened to the sealed outer surface by fasteners 1542. It is expected that the
building frame members 5050 of the building will sag over time, which sagging will occur
more where the building frame members 5050 are least supported (i.e. towards the
centre of the head flashing member). The sagging of the building frame members 5050
will transfer force to the head flashing member 170, causing it to sag as well.
           If the head flashing member 1700 was rigidly secured along its length to the
head frame member, the head flashing member would transfer stress from the sagging
fame 5050 to the head frame member 1630, causing it to sag as well and interfering with
the operation of the door or window.
           For this reason, it is important that the closure frame members 1500 do not
sag under the weight of the building over time, as this could prevent or hinder movement
of the closure between an open and a closed position.
           In order to prevent or significantly reduce sag in centre of the head frame
member 1630, the head frame member 1630 is connected at its ends to the head
flashing member 1700 by means of fasteners 1603, preferably in the form of screws
which are secured in aligning securing formations 1602 in the upper connecting
arrangement 1300, the head frame member 1630 and the head flashing member1700;
while the centre of the head frame member 1630 is movable relative to the head flashing
member 1700.
           While the head frame member 1630 is securely fastened to the head flashing
member 1700 at its ends, the head fame member 1630 and head flashing member 1700
are configured to engage with each other in a movable manner along the rest of their

                                              - 47
length. To this end there is provided an engaging arrangement 1660 configured to allow
sealed sliding movement of the head flashing member 1700 relative to the head frame
member 1630.
            While the figures only show the head flashing member that is movably
connected to the frame member, it will be appreciated that each of the jamb frame
members 1550 and/or the sill frame members 1560 may also be composed of a fixed
portion 1810 (shown in figure 17) that is operationally fixed to frame members 5050 of
the building 5000, and a movable portion 1800 that is preferably movable relative to the
fixed portion in a sliding manner. The movable portion is preferably slidably moveable
relative to the fixed portion in at least a direction parallel to the sealed outer surface
5200, and possibly also transversely to the sealed outer surface. Preferably the movable
portion also maintains a sealed engagement with the fixed portion as it moves. This may
have desirable properties where buildings are subject to frequent ground movement (for
example from earthquakes or building settlement), so that the movable portion is not
damaged by movement of the fixed portion, and in turn does not damage the window or
door that is being framed. This may also provide increased safety in that the door or
window has a greater chance of being openable after the frame of a building has been
moved by movement of the ground.
            It is envisaged that in an alternative embodiment (not shown) the fixed portion
and the movable portions could be engageable with each other by means of a sealing
engaging arrangement such as that described above for the head flashing member and
the head frame member. The sealing engaging arrangement will extend at least partially,
and preferably substantially entirely, around the periphery of the movable portion.
            It is also envisaged that the movable portion may be engageable with the fixed
portion by means of a selection of sets of engaging formations that are engageable with
one or more sets of complementary engaging formations, to thereby allow for the
movable portion to be adjusted to extend further from the opening. In this way, the
flashing flange, which would preferably be associated with the movable portion, could be
adjusted to account for outer cladding layers of varying thicknesses.
            The head flashing member 1700 is for shielding the top of the head frame
member 1630 from casual water operationally, to prevent water from running off the
head frame member 1630 and into the cavity 5500. For this reason, the head flashing
member 1700 comprises an eave formation 1740. When the head flashing member 1700
is installed operationally, the eave formation 1740 extends over the head frame member
1630 to shield it from rain water or the like.
            In a preferred embodiment, the eave formation of the head flashing member
1700 comprises an extending portion 1742. The extending portion 1742 is configured to
extend laterally outwardly of the outer cladding layer 5300 of the building, and adjacent
and laterally along an outer surface 5320 of the outer cladding layer 5300. The extending

                                             - 48
portion 1742 is used to cover an ends of the head frame member 1630 and /or the top
end of a jamb frame member 1550. The extending portion 1742 also preferably extends
over a top end of a jamb scriber 5600, to restrict water incident on the top end, and to
present an aesthetically desirable finish to the closure frame assembly 1000.
           Where the extending portion 1742 extends outside of the outer cladding layer,
the distance from the outer surface 5320 of the outer cladding layer 5300 to an inner
edge of the extending portion 1742 may vary depending on how and where the outer
cladding layer was cut when fitting it to the building. Having a large gap between the
outer surface 5320 of the outer cladding layer 5300 to an inner edge of the extending
portion 1742 is aesthetically undesirable.
           For this reason an adjustable shielding formation 1604 is provided that covers
the gap (shown as reference numeral G in figure 10) between the outer surface
5320 of the outer cladding layer 5300 and the inner edge of the extending portion 1742.
The shielding formation is adjustable depending on the size of the gap G to be covered.
The shielding formation is preferably engageable with the extending portion 1742 in a
sliding fashion, along one or more guiding track arrangements (not shown). Providing
such an adjustable shielding formation 1604 is particularly useful where "bevel back"
type weatherboard is used as the outer cladding layer, where it does not present an
outer (or inner face) that extends at uniform distance from or parallel to the sealed outer
surface.
           Prior art cladding was horizontally notched (saw cut) to enable the cladding to
be let around the head flashing surface that penetrated through or overhang past the
cladding. This notch was then subsequently sealed with a wet sealant.
           In a preferred embodiment the cladding face has a substantially right angled
cut to create an opening to allow the cladding to sit over the flashing. The adjustable
shielding formation 1604 pushes up to the cladding face, rather than trying to go through
it. The adjustable shielding formation 1604, being front and face mounted to the cladding
improves the current situation where the head flashing lateral extension beyond the
window jambs was not notched in itself.
           Preferably a flap 1605 is provided that is hingeably attached to the adjustable
shielding formation 1604 on both sides of the assembly. The flap 1605 helps form a seal
between the cladding and the head flashing. The flap portion is flexible or movable such
that the angle between the flap portion and the flashing portion may conform to a corner
angle of an end of a scriber / or cladding located under the lateral extension of the head
flashing in use, with the flap portion located between the scriber and a cladding. The flap
1605 prevents wind and water from being driven up between the scriber or cladding and
the head flashing. The flap 1605 is connected via a slide in hinge arrangement, with the
flap comprising a rod at its upper edge which can slide into a complimentary slot on the

                                            - 49
adjustable shielding formation 1604. The flap 1605 may be rubber or plastics, or thin
aluminium.
           In one embodiment, where the cladding layer is a thick layer (such as when a
brick veneer is used as shown in figures 27 -29 and 58), the cladding layer may not
extend behind the extending portion 1742. In such cases, it is envisaged that the
extending portion 1742 would be cut to only extend as far to the side as to align with an
outer edge of the jamb frame member. The adjustable shielding formation 1604 would
in such a case be used to close the entire gap between the extending portion 1604 and
the sealing flange and would not necessarily need to be adjustable as shown in figure
58.
           Cavity closer formation
          The head flashing member 1700 further comprises a cavity closer formation
1720 that serves to close the gap between the sealing flange 1705 and an inner surface
5310 of the outer cladding layer, to thereby prevent ingress of pests. It is envisaged that
the cavity closer formation preferably comprises a U-shaped formation that extends
outwardly from the sealing flange 1705 and then upwardly substantially co-planarly with
at least part of the inner surface 5310 of the outer cladding layer 5300. The U-shaped
formation acts as a drainage channel 1730 from which casual water that makes its way
behind the outer cladding layer can be drained in a controlled fashion. In a preferred
embodiment, the cavity closer formation 1720 and sealing flange 1705 together form a
U-shape or H-shape. However, it will be appreciated that a wide variety of configurations
are possible, including inclined or declined formations, L-shaped, or even just extend as a
single transverse flange from the sealing flange.
           Preferably the cavity closer formation 1720 comprises a turnback 1724 section
that extends back towards the sealing flange 1705 at its highest point as shown in figure
62. The turnback 1724 controls airflow so water draining through the cavity closer is not
blown back up through the holes onto the back of the cladding and/or onto the building
wrap. The turnback may extend back so far that it overhangs the drainage slots 1722.
          The cavity closer formation 1720 further includes drainage slots 1722 or
apertures in it for drainage of any water that may accumulate on top of the cavity closer
formation 1720. Water draining through the drainage slots would run down over the eave
formation 1740. Preferably the drainage slots 1722 have an openable are to allow water
to pass through to the eave formation 1740 of 1OOOmm 2 /m. The drainage slots 1722 can
be of any shape, as long as they are big enough to be anti-capillary and small enough to
prevent rodents, vermin or larger insects or bugs through.
           In alternative embodiments the drainage slots are in the form of gaps (not
shown), instead of holes or slots. When combined and adjacent the cladding, the gaps
form a hole or slot. The outer edge of the wall portion / cladding defines a line of outer
extent that when assembled, makes contact with the cavity closer formation 1720. The

                                             - 50
wall portion / cladding includes a plurality of gaps or openings behind the line of outer
extent, to form, alone, or in combination with a cladding in use, a plurality of cavity
outlets / drainage slots.
           At the ends of the cavity closer formation 1720 towards the jambs 1550 are
overlapping portions 1723 which direct casual water towards the cavity closer. Preferably
the overlapping portion 1723 extends as far as possible away from the window frame in a
direction parallel with the cladding, and perpendicular to the jambs, so as to catch as
much casual water as possible and direct it towards the cavity closer to be managed as
shown in figure 56. The overlapping portions 1723 are laterally extending, upwardly
open troughs, the troughs including a collection surface which slopes downward in a
direction toward the cavity closer formation 1720.
           The upper connecting arrangement 1300 connects the head frame member
1630 to the head flashing member 1700 and the jamb frame member 1550 by means of
the fasteners 1603 that engageable through aligned securing formations 1602 in the
form of holes.
           As shown in figure 17 and 20, the engaging arrangement 1660 comprises a
sealing member 1670 that is engageable within a sealing seat formation 1672 at a
sealing surface 1673. If the sealing seat formation 1672 moves up or down, the sealing
member 1670 moves along the sealing surface 1673 on the inside of the sealing seat
formation 1672 while retaining a sealed interface between the head flashing member
1700 and the head frame member 1630. It is envisaged that the sealing member 1670
will comprise a foot portion 1674 and a seal portion 1676. The foot portion 1674 is
engageable with seal engaging formations 1677 that run substantially the length of the
head frame member 1630, that retain the sealing member 1670 in position. In this way,
the head flashing member 1700 is able to sag under the force of the sagging building
frame members 5050, without causing the head frame member 1630 to sag.
           In the embodiments shown, the head flashing member 1700 includes sealing
seat formation 1672, and the head frame member 1630 comprises the sealing member
1670, although this need not necessarily be the case. It will also be appreciated that a
wide variety of sealing configurations are possible for allowing sealed relative movement
between the head flashing member 1700 and the head frame member 1630.
           The head frame assembly 1600 may further comprise an adjustable fastener
1610 in the form of a threaded screw 1620 that engages with complementary thread
formations in both the head frame member 1630 and/or head flashing member 1700.
The adjustable fastener 1610 is preferably located intermediate the length of the head
frame member 1630 and head flashing member 1700. The adjustable fastener 1610
allows for the relative distance between the head flashing member 1700 and the head
frame member 1630 at a point intermediate their ends to be adjusted for sag, while
retaining the rigidity of the connection between them. Where the head flashing member

                                             - 51
has sagged under the weight of a sagging building frame member 5050, it will cause the
head frame member 1630 to sag. The force on the head frame member 1630 can be
released by adjusting the threaded fastener.
           It is envisaged that the frame closure assembly 1000 may in some instances be
used with the head frame member located immediately adjacent a soffit panel 5710 (as
shown in figures 30 and 23). This method of building is especially used on the South
Island of New Zealand. In such an instance, shielding of the top of the head frame
member 1630 by an eave formation on a head flashing member is not typically required,
as it is unlikely that casual water would be incident on an upper surface of the head
frame assembly if it is already shielded by the soffit 5700. However, an instance of using
a head flashing member to shield the head frame member in such usage is shown in
figure 23.
           In such a case, and as shown in figures 23 and 30 it is envisaged that the
head frame member may instead be shielded from casual water operationally by locating
a finishing bead alongside the head frame member.
           In an embodiment where a head flashing member is not provided, for example
where the area on the sealed outer surface between the edge of the opening and the
soffit panel 5710 is not large enough for the location of a head flashing member, then it
is envisaged that a sealing configuration as shown in figure 30 will be used.     The head
frame assembly 1600 shown in figure 30 comprises a head frame member 1630. The
head frame member 1630 comprises an engaging arrangement 1660 configured for
engaging with a sealing member 1670 along the length of the head frame member 1630.
The engaging arrangement 1660 comprises seal engaging formations 1677 in the form of
a sealing seat formation 1672. The sealing member shown in figure 20 includes a foot
portion 1674 and a seal portion 1676.
           The foot portion 1674 is receivable into the sealing seat formation 1672 along
the length of the head frame member. The seal portion 1676 is similar to that shown in
figure 23 although the seal portion 1676 extends out further from the foot portion, to
allow the seal portion to be folded back operationally to lie between the head frame
member and the sealed outer surface 5200 of the building 5000, to create a sealed or
sealing engagement operationally between the two. This sealed engagement defines part
of the sealed weatherline.
           As mentioned above the upper connecting arrangement 1300 comprises a
sealing flange that is configured to align in abutment and coplanarly with the sealing
flanges 1554, 1705 of the jamb frame member 1550 and the head flashing member 1700
respectively along the sealed outer surface 5200 of the building 5000.
           In order to manage casual water flowing downwardly from the head flashing
member 1700 to the upper connecting arrangement, the sealing flange 1705 of the head

                                             - 52
flashing assembly 1700 and the sealing flange 1320 of the upper connecting
arrangement 1300 overlap in order to reduce casual water leakage between them.
           Similarly, the sealing flange 1320 of the upper connecting arrangement 1300
and the sealing flange 1554 of the jamb frame member 1550 overlap at an overlapping
portion to prevent or at least reduce leakage of casual water between the upper
connecting arrangement 1300 and the jamb frame member 1550 towards the sealed
outer surface 5200. To this extent an overlapping portion 1321 is provided that extends
out of plane of the sealing flanges.
           While in the embodiments shown, the head frame member 1630 does not
comprise a sealing flange, it is envisaged that the head frame member 1630 could
include such a sealing flange, and this sealing flange could be configured to overlap with
the sealing flange of the upper connecting arrangement 1300.
           In a similar fashion, each lower connecting arrangement 1400 also comprises a
sealing flange 1420 that overlap with the sealing flange 1554 of the jamb frame member
1550 in order to at least partially reduce leakage of casual water between the abutting
sealing flanges 1420, 1554.
           In addition to the overlapping of the respective sealing flanges, the flashing
flanges 1340, 1430 and 1552 of the upper connecting arrangement 1300, lower
connecting arrangement 1400, and jamb frame member 1550 respectively are preferably
also configured to overlap each other in order to manage the flow of casual water along
an outer face of the flashing flanges 1340, 1430 and 1552.
           It is envisaged that the flashing flange 1340 of the upper connecting
arrangement 1300 can comprise a flared portion (not shown) for providing additional
protection against water splashing between the outer cladding layer 5300 and the
flashing flange 1340. The flared portion will extend coplanarly with the rest of the
flashing flange 1340 assist in preventing the ingress of casual water behind the outer
cladding layer of the building, for example by splashing or driven by wind.
           Upper connecting arrangement
           The upper connecting arrangement 1300 is preferably composed of a single
integrally moulded connector member 1305.
           In a preferred embodiment, the upper connecting arrangement 1300 comprises
an end stop formation 1360. The end stop formation 1360 is configured for at least
partially restricting flow of casual water along the length of the head frame member 1630
and/or the head flashing member 1700 (for example along the cavity closer formation
1720 towards one of its opposed two ends 1710), and into the cavity 5500 behind the
outer cladding layer 5300. In a preferred embodiment, the end stop formation 1360
preferably extends from the sealing flange of the head flashing member to a point
outwardly of or aligned with an outer surface 5320 of the outer cladding layer 5300.

                                            - 53
          The end stop formation 1360 has a dual function in that it also acts as a spacer
for spacing the alignment of the outer cladding layer 5300 at a distance from the eave
formation 1740 when the outer cladding layer 5300 is being installed. Such spacing may
be necessary to prevent the outer cladding layer 5300 from being positioned too closely
to the eave formation 1740, so that water running down an inner surface 5310 of the
outer cladding layer 5300 is prevented from running down over the eave formation 1740.
The preferred distance between the top of the cladding and the eave formation 1740, i.e.
the height of the end stop formation 1360 above the formation 1740, is 6mm. However
many other distances are possible and within the scope. Preferably this height can be
adjusted for different cladding systems, building styles, or personal preferences.
          The end stop formation 1360 could also extend to at least partially restrict the
flow of casual water along the length and off an end of the head frame member 1630. In
a preferred embodiment, this the upper connecting arrangement includes a drainage
passage 1370 in the form of an aperture 1372, but which could also be a conduit or
recess (not shown) that allows flow of casual water from the top of the head frame
member down the jamb frame member, preferably in a controlled fashion.
          In the embodiment shown, the drainage passage 1372 aligns with a drainage
aperture 1559 in the jamb frame member 1550, although this may not be the case. It is
envisaged that in another embodiment (not shown), the upper connecting arrangement
1300 could provide for a similar drainage passage to drain casual water from the top of
the cavity closer formation 1720 on the head flashing member 1700.
          In a preferred embodiment, it is envisaged that any casual water drained from
the top of the head frame member 1630 or the cavity closer formation 1720 will be
managed in a controlled fashion to run down the jamb frame member 1550. To this end,
the upper connecting arrangement 1300 may be configured to guide the casual water
into an enclosed conduit (not shown) in the jamb frame member 1550 for example if the
jamb frame member is a hollow extruded body.
          Such a configuration may include a conduit (not shown) that guides water to an
outlet above such an enclosed conduit in the jamb frame member.
          Alternatively or additionally, the upper connecting arrangement 1300 may be
configured to guide water downwardly along the jamb member by providing guiding
formations such as tapered flanges, in a way that uses surface tension of the casual
water to ensure that the water stays in contact with the upper connecting arrangement
1300 and jamb frame member 1550 as it slides downwardly, without dripping off the
jamb frame member 1550 or upper connecting arrangement 1300. It will be appreciated
that such formations could include a wide variety of configurations, such as tapered or
sloping formations 1380 terminating adjacent the surface of the jamb frame member as
shown in Figure 57.

                                            - 54
            In another embodiment, it is envisaged that water could be allowed to drip
from the upper connecting arrangement 1300, but only after being guided to specially
configured formations that allow it to drip from predetermined positions, so that the
dripping water can be managed where it is expected to land.
          Lower connecting arrangement
          The lower connecting arrangement 1400 also facilitates the management of
water received down the jamb frame member 1550 (either running down the jamb frame
member 1550 or dripping down alongside the jamb frame member) as will be described
below. It is also envisaged that in one embodiment (not shown) the lower connecting
arrangement can be configured for receiving water running down a hollow cavity (not
shown) in a jamb frame member.
          In further embodiments, the lower connecting arrangement 1400 also collects
condensation formed inside the sash / glass pane that has accumulated in the
condensation channel on the inside of the sash / glass pane.
          The lower connecting arrangement 1400 is configured to couple the sill frame
member 1560 and the jamb frame member 1550 in securely and in snug engagement
with each other. The sill frame member 1560 and the jamb frame member 1550 engage
in abutment with each other at a lower interface 1570.   The sill frame member 1560 is
connected at its ends to the jamb frame members 1550 by means of fasteners 1547
which are secured in aligning securing formations 1546 (in the form of holes) in the jamb
frame members 1550, the lower connecting arrangement 1400 and the sill frame
member 1560.
          The lower connecting arrangement 1400 comprises a connector member 1410
that includes engaging formations 1414 for snugly engaging with the jamb frame
member and the sill frame member to locate the lower connecting arrangement 1400
against them.
          The connector member 1410 defines an inlet formation 1412 configured to
present an opening or mouth 1413 operationally for receiving casual water moving down
the jamb frame member 1550, either a drips falling down alongside the jamb frame
member, running down the outside of jamb frame member as shown in Figure 60 by
annotation W, or (in an embodiment not shown) running down an enclosed conduit
(not shown) in the jamb frame member. Preferably, the mouth 1413 running about the
outside of the jamb member catches any casual water W running down the jamb
member or jamb flashing.
          The connector member 1410 further defines a conduit portion 1411 and a
container or reservoir portion 1416 for guiding and holding water received through the
mouth 1413, and a comprises an outlet portion 1418 that includes an outlet formation
1419 that defines an outlet in the form of an aperture 1417 for the casual water to run
out of the lower connecting arrangement 1400. In a preferred embodiment, the outlet

                                             - 55
formation 1419 is configured to engage snugly with a bottom end of the jamb frame
member 1550 to provide an aesthetically tidy outlet. It is envisaged that the outlet
formation 1419 could engage snugly with the sill frame member 1560 as well as or
instead of the jamb frame member 1550.
           Preferably the outlet formation 1418 is configured so that operationally, casual
water flowing out of the outlet 1417 is deposited at a point preferably outside of the
outer cladding layer, a point below the cladding layer and/or to a point on an inner
surface of the outer cladding layer, so that it can run down the inner surface without
contacting the sealed outer surface 5200 of the building 5000. Casual water collected in
the lower connecting arrangement 1400 is thus deposited in a controlled fashion to a
point outside of the weatherline and where it cannot create rotting of structural frame
members or other issues associated with damp.
           It is envisaged that any of the inlet formation 1412, conduit portion 1411,
reservoir portion 1416 and outlet portion 1418 of the lower connecting arrangement
1400 may be made up of individual members connected to each other; however an
integrally formed moulded connector member 1410 is preferred as this will facilitate
better sealing against water leakage.
           The container portion 1416 has a further function in that it is configured for
receiving casual water moving between the lower interface 1570 between the sill frame
member 1560 and the jamb frame member 1550, and guiding the casual water to the
outlet 1417.
           Preferable, it is envisaged that the generally inner portion of the lower
connecting arrangement 1400 that is sealed against the jamb frame member and/or sill
frame member preferably provides an unbroken sealed surface to a point as high up
under the jamb frame member and/or sill frame member as possible as shown in
figure 63 . For this reason, it is envisaged that the jamb frame members and/or sill
frame member may be provided with a recess, such as a slot in their lower surface
operationally, into which an inner wall of the lower connecting arrangement 1400 can
extend. The recess would preferably extend parallel with the sill frame member.
           In this way any casual water, that is incident on the top of the sill frame
member and which makes its way between sill frame member 1560 and the jamb frame
member 1550 via the lower interface 1570, is carefully managed to prevent it from
penetrating the weatherline of the closure frame assembly 1000.
           The lower connecting arrangement may in some embodiments not provide any
connecting function between the sill frame member and the jamb frame member, but
merely provide a receptacle or conduit for water.
           In a preferred embodiment, it is envisaged that most, if not all interfaces
between frame members, will be located outwardly of the plane of the weatherline
(coinciding with the plane of the sealing flanges). Further, any interfaces that extend

                                               - 56
inwardly of the weather line will be sealed by sealing formations (not shown). This
configuration is envisaged especially where the frame frames a window 1900, as the
width of a window is relatively narrow compared to a door.
            In this way water leakage between any interfaces is kept outside of the
weatherline, in "wet" regions where casual water is expected, while retaining areas within
the weatherline as 'dry'     areas, and water is able to be managed outside of the
weatherline where the likelihood of contact with or leakage past the sealed outer surface
is reduced.
            It is envisaged that management of water running down or dripping alongside
the jamb frame member may be handled differently for frames that frame a door (not
shown), and frames that frame a window closure 1900.
            Receptacle
            Frames for framing doors can be expected to extend further inwardly into the
opening than frames for framing windows, due to doors generally being wider than
windows, and because doors can also be typically expected to comprise two or even
more separate parallel door panels that run in several parallel guiding channels 1561 (as
shown in figure 46) that guide movement of the door panels. These guiding channels
are typically defined by the sill frame member. As the sill frame member of a frame for a
door is also expected to be lower to the floor, it is also more likely to receive casual
water incident on it. For this reason, there is also more likely to be leakage of casual
water through the lower interface.
            If the largest portion of the interface between a jamb frame member and a sill
frame member were to extend outside of the plane of the sealing flanges, the door frame
could be expected to extend far outwardly of the sealed outer surface, which may not
always be desirable, either due to space or aesthetic constraints.
            For this reason, it is envisaged that frames for framing doors will include a
separate receptacle as shown in figures 2, 46, 47 and 54, that is located inwardly of
the plane of the sealing flanges for receiving casual water leaking between the lower
interface 1570. The receptacle could be a portion of the lower connecting arrangement,
or could be mounted separately and operate independently of the lower connecting
arrangement.
            The receptacle comprises engaging formations 1462 configured for facilitating
the snug engagement of at least part of the receptacle with the jamb frame member and
the sill frame member, and optionally the connector member 1410. In the embodiments
shown, the engaging formations 1462 comprise a sealing flange 1463 configured for
alignment with the sealing flange of the jamb frame member. The receptacle further
comprises a conduit portion 1464 for receiving casual water moving between the
interface, and guiding the received casual water operationally to deposit said casual
water outside of the weatherline from an outlet portion 1466. The outlet portion

                                               - 57
comprises outlet formations 1467 defining a receptacle outlet 1468. Both the receptacle
and lower connecting arrangement 1400 comprise a forward leaning slope at the base of
said receptacle and/or lower connecting arrangement 1400, towards the external
cladding, to aid water discharge to the outlet.
            The receptacle 1460 further can comprise a lip (not shown) for ensuring that
water moving out of the receptacle outlet 1468 does not flow over the sealing flange of
the sill frame member. It is envisaged that the receptacle 1460 could in an alternative
embodiment deposit water into the lower connecting arrangement 1400 to flow out of the
outlet 1417, although this is not preferred, as the applicant has found that larger
amounts of casual water can be expected to be managed by the lower connecting
arrangement 1400 than the amounts of casual water handled by the receptacle 1460,
and that these two reservoirs should be kept apart to ensure that overflow of the lower
connecting arrangement 1400 does not result in overflow of the receptacle 1460, thereby
creating a possibility that the weatherline is breached.
            In this regard it will be appreciate that in the embodiments shown in figures
46, 47 and 54, part of the receptacle defines part of the weatherline of the closure
frame assembly, while the lower connecting arrangement does not. It is however
envisaged that the lower connecting arrangement 1400 and receptacle 1460 may be
integrated with each other as a larger lower connecting arrangement as a single piece,
and that such a larger lower connecting arrangement 1400 could thus form part of the
weatherline.
            The receptacle is preferably sealed against either or both of the jamb frame
member and the sill frame member, for example by means of a gasket, or other sealing
means, such as a polymer sealant or similar (for example silicone).
            It is also envisaged that the receptacle 1460 could include securing formations
(not shown) by which the receptacle could be secured to either or both of the jamb
frame member and the sill frame member. The receptacle 1460 could be used to
facilitate the secure connection of the jamb frame member and the sill frame member to
each other in the same way the lower connecting arrangement does.
            As shown in figure 2, the receptacle 1460 is preferably sealed against the
jamb frame member and/or sill frame member where it engages with it, preferably by
means of a seal 1450. It is envisaged that the seal may be a wet seal (e.g. deposited
from a tube) or a rubber gasket type seal. It is envisaged that a soft rubber or plastic
seal 1450 will preferably be integrally formed with the receptacle 1460.
            One problem encountered by the use of a single piece receptacle 1460 to
define part of the weatherline A of the closure frame assembly is that a pressure
differential may exist between the ambient air pressure inside of the outer cladding layer
(for example within the cavity 5500 and inside the container portion 1416), and the
ambient air pressure outside of the outer cladding layer 5300. This pressure differential

                                             - 58
may cause casual water trying to exit the cavity to be blown back into or held within the
cavity.
           For this reason, the cavity 5500 of most buildings is equalised with the air
pressure outside of the outer cladding layer 5300 by providing for apertures between the
cavity and the atmosphere. In a similar fashion, the receptacle 1460 preferably provide
for relatively large equalisation apertures 1440 between the inside of the conduit portion
1464 and either the cavity or the atmosphere to equalise pressure between the conduit
portion 1464 , and the outside air pressure at the receptacle outlet 1468. In this way,
flow of the casual water out of the receptacle outlet 1468 is not restricted by having an
air pressure differential acting against the direction of flow of casual water.
           In some embodiments the cavity 5500 may be filled with insulation. This is due
to the temperature gradient between inside the building/the cavity and the flashing
flange 1552 potentially causing condensation on the aluminium frame on the internal side
of the cavity in particular environs. The insulation goes towards preventing the
condensation. In other embodiments, an insulating surface (not shown) may be
attached to the building side of the sealing flanges to create a temperature gradient
between the cavity and the aluminium frame to prevent condensation. Preferably this
insulating surface is attached during manufacture. The insulating surface may also help
in aid of creating a pressure tight seal around the window opening between the assembly
and the building. Preferably, the insulating surface will be attached wherever there is
visible aluminium open to the trim cavity 5500. Previously, filling this cavity with
insulation or with an insulating surface was not possible as the cavity 5500 was outside
of the weatherline. Incorporating insulation into cavity 550 is enabled by moving the
weatherline to the outside of the face of the framing.
           In one embodiment, if condensation were to form on the exposed back faces of
aluminium frames inside the building cavity (inside the weather line); the receptacle
1460 has high sided ridges at or towards its top surface adjacent the jamb. These ridges
can catch and hold any running condensation that has formed on the jamb frame. This
holding area is then drained via a small hole in the jamb frame immediately at the top of
the receptacle back into the catchment part of the door sill on the indoor area of the door
which would then subsequently find its way into the lower connecting arrangement 1400
and drain via the outlet portion 1418.
           Another concern about having two frame members that engage together at
coupling zones 1200 to form an interface, as provided for in the upper interface 1601 and
especially the lower interface 1570, is that capillary action can cause moisture to move
along the interface and inwardly of the weatherline A. For this reason, at each such
interface, at least one of the frame members comprises a recess formation 1572 (shown
in figure 15) along one of the ends that is abutted with the other of the frame
members. This recess is configured and dimensioned to be big enough to recess or

                                             - 59
separate the abutting edges of the frame members operationally to prevent movement of
casual water along the interface by capillary action. In order to do so, it is anticipated
that the recess formation will only be required to be about 5-10 millimetres inwardly of
the abutting edge of the relevant frame member. It will be appreciated that many
different alternative configurations of abutting edge may be possible in order to provide
such a capillary mismatch; however, the use of a recess formation is regarded as being
simple and cost effective. Any casual water moving through the recess formation can be
received into the receptacle or the lower connecting arrangement and guided to their
outlets.
           Mullions
           A mullion is a vertical element that forms a division between units of a window,
door, or screen, or is used decoratively. When dividing adjacent window or sash units, its
primary purpose is to provide structural support to an arch or lintel above the window
opening. Its secondary purpose may be as a rigid support to the glazing of the window.
Where mullions are used or a sill is divided into two or more pieces a mullion block 1470
is provided between each sill interface as shown in figures 65 and 66. The mullion
block 1470 slots within the sill 1560. The mullion block 1470 provides a reservoir and
catchment for any casual water that may get though between the interface between sills.
           Deviated Weatherline
           As mentioned above, the weatherline A is provided in a single plane coinciding
with the plane of the sealed outer surface of the building, except optionally for certain
deviations as will now be explained. The lower interface 1570 and upper interface 1601
may have casual water leaking between them. This is less likely with the upper interface
as the head frame member 1630 is shielded from casual water by the eave formation
1740 of the head flashing member 1700. However the lower interface 1570 is likely to
have casual water falling on top of it (for example if the door or window closure is left
open and water pools on top of the sill frame member 1560 in channels for guiding the
door or window closure.
           For this reason, the planar weatherline A defined by the sealing flange
extending around coplanarly with the outer sealed surface of the building needs to
deviate inwardly to at least the lower interface to ensure that casual water leaking
between the lower interface 1570 remains outside the weatherline. An example of such a
deviation inwardly is shown in figures 2, 46, 47, 51, 54 and 67 - 69.
          To this end, the inner periphery of the receptacle becomes part of the
weatherline A by providing a conduit portion 1464 that is sealed to the jamb frame
member and/or the sill frame member around its periphery, and which will manage flow
of water out of the outlet before it allows water to move inwardly of the weatherline A. In
this way, the receptacle defines part of the weather line deviation.

                                             - 60
           Casual water collected in the receptacle is then deposited in a controlled
fashion to a point outside of the weatherline and where it cannot create rotting of
structural frame members or other issues associated with damp.
           In another embodiment as shown in figure 69, it is envisaged that the
generally inner portion of the receptacle that is sealed against the jamb frame member
and/or sill frame member preferably provides an unbroken sealed surface to a point as
high up under the jamb frame member and/or sill frame member as possible. For this
reason, it is envisaged that the jamb frame members and/or sill frame member may be
provided with a recess (not shown), such as a slot in their lower surface operationally,
into which an inner wall of the receptacle can extend. The recess would preferably
extend parallel with the sill frame member.
           It is further envisaged that in an alternative embodiment (not shown) the sill
frame member may be comprised of two separate portions joined at a coupling zone
intermediate of the jamb frame members to create another interface, and that a similar
receptacle may be provided for deviating the weatherline inwardly at this interface in a
similar fashion.
           Reveals
           It is envisaged that in one embodiment (not shown), the frame members 1500
of the closure frame assembly 1000 can comprise reveal portions 1520 in addition to
framing portions 1510 (for framing and engaging with the door or window closure). In a
preferred embodiment, the reveal portions 1520 are integrally formed with the frame
members 1500, however it is also envisaged that they may be removably connectable to
the framing portions 1510, for example by means of a sliding formation (not shown)
engageable in a track formation (not shown), or by a snap fit type formation (not
shown). However, it is also envisaged that normal timber panel reveal portions 1520
could be used (as shown in figures 17-19), which may be fixed to the frame members
by fasteners such as screws (not shown). Such reveal portions may also be fastened to
the building frame members 5050 in a known manner, such as by fastening with
fasteners such as nails 1521.
           Integrally formed reveal portions are made possible because the horizontal
distance between the sealed outer surface 5200 (at the sealed plastic sheet 5010 that is
stretched over the building frame members 5050) and an internal cladding layer of a
building (for example such as plasterboard cladding or dry walling 5410) will be fixed,
since the sealing flanges of the frame members will always be referenced to the sealed
outer surface. In the past, this was not possible as prior art window frames are generally
referenced to the outer surface of the outer cladding layer, and the reveals were cut to
size accordingly.
           As the horizontal distance between the sealed outer surface 5200 (at the
sealed plastic sheet 5010 that is stretched over the building frame members 5050) and

                                              - 61
an internal cladding layer 5400 of a building will be predetermined by design and
generally of a standard size, therefore frame members 1500 with integrally formed
reveal portions 1520 or removably connectable reveal portions can be manufactured to
set sizes.
            In one embodiment, the reveal portion 1520 is configured to engage with the
internal cladding layer 5400 by means of a connecting formation 1530. In one
embodiment (not shown) the connecting formation is preferably configured to attach to
the internal cladding layer 5400 in a hidden fashion that is not visible from inside the
building 5000, preferably by attaching to an outer surface of the internal cladding layer
5400. Such connecting formations 1530 are known and will not be discussed further in
this specification.
            Assembly and Operation
            It is envisaged that the closure frame assembly will be fully assembled during
manufacture off site by connecting a lower connecting arrangement to each end of sill
frame member, and then connecting a jamb frame member to each lower connecting
arrangement, and then connecting an upper connecting arrangement to each jamb frame
member at each of their opposed free ends. Wherein one or more of the head member
and jamb members have square cut ends. A closure such as a sash /door or window is
located in between the jamb frame members, preferably into guiding formations in the
frame, and the head frame member and optionally head flashing member are connected
at each end to the upper connecting arrangements.
            Preferably the construction of one or more of the head members, jamb
members, sill members and head flashing comprises square cutting from a length of
respective stock. The stock may be an extrusion. The stock may comprise further
assembled component extrusions. Preferably the construction of a sill member includes,
extruding a sill stock including a supporting brace portion, subsequently cutting a length
of the sill stock and removing an end portion of the supporting brace portion at either
end of the cut length of sill stock, such that the sill member thus formed may receive a
corner member at either end.
            In other embodiments, the ends of the members making up the frame
assembly may be machined or configured and adapted to exclude the need for separate
corner connection components. I.e. the extrusion junctions themselves form the
connection component.
            In other embodiments the one or more of the head members, jamb members,
sill members and head flashing can be assembled from multiple extrusions or parts that
are assemble together to make a single member. This can involve, for example
assembling a jamb member from interior and exterior component parts and a thermal
break component part between them. Furthermore, as a skilled person in the art would
know, components may be attached to the members, such as door or window hardware.

                                            - 62
           Once the frame has been constructed, reveals are connected to the frame.
           After this assembly, the closure frame assembly is transported to site, where
the sealed plastic sheet has been extended over the building frame members 5050 of a
building 5000, and cut diagonally and folded inwardly at the opening 5100.
          The sealing flanges are then located against the sealed outer surface 5200 of
the building around the periphery 5110 of the opening 5100. The sealing flanges are then
fastened/fixed to the building frame members 5050 by fasteners. Sealing tape is then
applied to the edges of the sealing flanges to provide a weather seal / seal against the
sealed outer surface 5200. After this, the cladding can be installed. Optionally jamb
scribers may be inserted alongside jamb frame members. The adjustable shielding
formation 1604 is then adjusted to cover the gap between the extending portion of the
eave formation and the outer cladding layer, and/or shield the top end of the jamb
scribers.
           In this way a time consuming and labour intensive installation process is
reduced to relatively few steps, meaning that installation time for windows and doors is
reduced, allowing for work on the inside of the building to start, and reducing bottlenecks
on the building process.
           Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to elements or
integers having known equivalents, then such equivalents are included as if they were
individually set forth.
           Although the invention has been described by way of example and with
reference to particular embodiments, it is to be understood that modifications and/or
improvements may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.
           In addition, where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms
of Markush groups, those skilled in the art will recognise that the invention is also
thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the
Markush group.

                                           - 63
CLAIMS
1.    A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building defining a sealed outer
surface, the closure assembly comprising
      a frame with an inward face and an outward face and a perimetric sealing formation
configured for sealing engagement on and with the sealed outer surface of the building
around the perimeter of the opening,
      a sash supported by the frame at a depth in the frame outside the outward face of
sealing formation away from the sealed outer surface, such that, when installed in the
building in use, the sash is located completely external to the opening of the building.
2.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 1 including a reveal connected with the
frame and extending from the inward face of the frame, the reveal in use extending into
the opening of the building.
3.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the frame includes a sill with
an upper surface facing the sash and a channel in the upper surface, and drains
extending from the channel through the frame, the channel being located in the frame at
a depth between the sash and the sealing formation.
4.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 2 wherein the sealing
formation comprises a flange extending in a plane parallel to the general plane of the
opening, to overlap the outer surface of the wall of the building around the outside of the
opening.
5.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein the flange is continuous around
the perimeter of the frame.
6.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 5 wherein the frame includes a head
member, jamb members and a sill member and each of the head jamb and sill members
includes a flange portion that are each part of the continuous flange.
7.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 6 wherein the frame includes a corner
member which connects between a jamb member and an head member, and the corner
member includes a flange portion which is part of the continuous flange.
8.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein the flange portion of the corner
member and the flange portion of the respective jamb member overlap, with the
overlapping portion of the flange portion of the corner member being outside the
overlapped portion of the flange portion of the jamb member.
9.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein each drain leads into a conduit,
and the conduit leads to an exit adjacent the outward face of the frame.

                                              - 64
10.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 9 wherein the frame includes a corner
member which connects between a jamb member and a sill member and the corner
member includes the conduit.
11.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein the jamb member comprises
guide channels to guide casual water from an upper corner member to a lower corner
member.
12.    A method of fitting a joinery unit to a building comprising the steps of:
     a) inserting a joinery unit partially into an opening in the wall of the building for a
          window or door, to a depth defined by a peripheral flange on the joinery unit;
          and
     b) fixing the joinery unit through the flange onto the framing.
13.    A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure
assembly comprising
        a frame configured for being secured to the building,
        a sash supported in the frame,
        the frame including a head member and a sill member, a pair of jamb members
extending between the head member and the sill member, a depth stop portion which
sets a depth of insertion of the closure assembly into the opening of the building by
butting against an outside face of the building, and a head flashing portion above the
head member, extending from a plane substantially level with the depth stop portion to
an edge beyond an outward edge of the head member and sloping downward as it
extends outward.
14.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 13 including an outwardly extending wall
portion above the head flashing portion, the outer edge of the wall portion defining a line
of outer extent, the wall portion including a plurality of gaps or openings behind the line
of outer extent, to form, alone, or in combination with a cladding in use, a plurality of
cavity outlets.
15.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 14 wherein the wall portion includes a lip
that extends upward and inward to partially over hang one or more of the gaps or
openings.
16.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the head
flashing portion includes a seal with the head member along its length, and the head
flashing portion is supported in a fixed manner at either end relative to the head
member, but is able to slide over the head member between its ends to accommodate

                                             - 65
flexing of the head flashing portion.
17.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 16 wherein the frame
includes support members either end of the head flashing portion, which extend to a
location that is a distance above the upper surface of the head flashing portion, such that
a straight edge spanning between the support members is spaced above the surface of
the head flashing portion.
18.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 17 wherein the support members are
located on a corner member which connects the head member and one of the jamb
members.
19.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 18 wherein the corner member also
engages with the head flashing portion and includes an end dam which provides a lip at a
lateral end of the head flashing portion.
20.    A closure assembly as claimed in either claim 18 or claim 19 wherein a head
flashing member includes the head flashing portion and an outwardly extending wall
portion above the head flashing portion, the outer edge of the wall portion defining a line
of outer extent, with the wall portion including a plurality of gaps or openings behind the
line of outer extent, to form, alone, or in combination with a cladding in use, a plurality
of cavity outlets, and the corner member includes a cavity closer end dam which provides
an upward lip at a lateral end of the outwardly extending wall portion.
21.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 20 wherein the cavity closer end dam
includes a laterally extending, upwardly open trough, the trough including a collection
surface which slopes downward in a direction toward the outwardly extending wall
portion.
22.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 21 wherein the sill
member includes a frame portion and a lower supporting portion extending downward,
fixable to the face of the building below the opening in use.
23.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 22 wherein the sash is located within the
frame at a depth between an outward face of the frame and the lower supporting
portion, and the sill includes a brace member extending from the lower supporting
portion to the frame portion at a location below or outward of the sash.
24.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 23 wherein the frame
includes flange members spaced outwardly from the supporting portion and spaced
inwardly from an outer face of the frame, the flange members extending from the frame
generally in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the outer face of the frame.

                                             - 66
25.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 23 wherein the sill member includes a
flange member extending downward from the brace member at a location spaced from
the supporting portion.
26.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 25 wherein the frame
includes a sealing portion around its perimeter, the sealing portion extending from the
frame to overlap the wall of the building around the opening of the building in use, and to
be secured against the outer surface of the wall of the building, the sealing portion
forming the depth stop portion.
27.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 26 wherein the head
flashing includes a lateral extension at either end, each lateral extension being adjacent
the outward edge of the flashing, and extending beyond the lateral edge of the head
member and jamb member.
28.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 27 wherein the lateral extension defines,
together with one of the flange members of the frame, a gap for receiving an edge of a
portion of cladding, and the frame includes an adjustable return connected with the head
flashing to be disposed partially in the gap and to overlap the lateral extension, and to in
use, be positioned against the outer surface of the cladding.
29.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 28 wherein the adjustable return includes a
connection portion, a flashing portion which overlaps the upper surface of the lateral
extension of the head flashing, and a flap portion which is flexible or movable such that
the angle between the flap portion and the flashing portion may conform to a corner
angle of an end of a scriber located under the lateral extension of the head flashing in
use, with the flap portion located between the scriber and a cladding.
30.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 29 wherein the head
flashing and head member include at least one interengagement in the region between
the ends, which substantially prevents separating movement of the head flashing and the
head member.
31.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 30 wherein the interengagement comprises
at least one inwardly turned edge of the head flashing engaging below an outwardly
extending edge of the head member.
32.    A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 13 to 31 wherein the frame
includes upper corner connectors connecting the head member and each of the jamb
members.
33.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 32 wherein the upper corner member is
secured to the head and jamb members by a combination of fasteners and, in at least

                                             - 67
one location not accessible for inserting a fastener during or after assembly, a clip
arrangement which self engages upon assembly of the corner member to one of the
jamb or the head member.
34.    A closure assembly as claimed in claim 32 wherein one or more of the head
member and jamb members have square cut ends.
35.    A method of manufacturing a joinery unit comprising:
       a) making a frame,
       b) assembling a head flashing to be supported by elements of the frame
       c) (after a)) assembling a sash to the frame, and
       after a), b) and c) packaging the joinery unit for transport.
36.    A method as claimed in claim 35 comprising:
making a frame by connecting a head member to one end of each of a pair of jamb
members, using, in each case, a corner member, and connecting a sill member to one
end of each of the pair of jamb members using, in each case, a corner member.
37.    A method as claimed in claim 36 comprising square cutting a head member from a
length of extruded head member stock.
38.    A method as claimed in claim 36 or claim 37 comprising square cutting a sill
member from a length of extruded sill member stock.
39.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 36 to 38 comprising square cutting jamb
members from lengths of extruded jamb member stock.
40.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 36 to 39 comprising assembling the head
flashing to one or more of the corner connectors before or the same time as assembling
the corner connectors and the head member.
41.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 36 to 40 comprising manufacturing a sill
member by extruding a sill stock including a supporting brace portion, subsequently
cutting a length of the sill stock and removing an end portion of the supporting brace
portion at either end of the cut length of sill stock, such that the sill member thus formed
may receive a corner member at either end.
42.    A method as claimed in any one of claims 35 to 41 comprising connecting a reveal
to the frame.
43.    A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure frame

                                            - 68
assembly comprising
       a frame configured for being secured to the building,
       the frame including a head member and a sill member, a pair of jamb members
extending between the head member and the sill member, and a support bar integrally
formed with the sill member, configured to be secured to the building to support a
substantial amount of the weight of the closure assembly.
44.   A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure frame
assembly comprising
       a frame configured for being secured to the building,
       the frame including a head member and a sill member, a pair of jamb members
extending between the head member and the sill member, and depth stops for locating
the frame at a fixed depth within the opening, the jambs including a cavity seal flange
located on the jamb to be spaced off the wall with the frame inserted in the opening to
the depth defined by the depth stops, but back from an outer face of the frame, to define
a channel for receiving the end portion or portions of cladding between the cavity seal
flange and the outer face of the frame.
45.   A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closure frame
assembly comprising
           a. a frame configured for being secured to the building,
           b. the frame including a head portion including an upstand portion in a plane
               generally parallel to the plane of the frame, and intended in use to rest
               with an inward face against a face of the wall of the building, and a cavity
               closer member extending substantially perpendicular from an outward face
               of the upstand portion, to, in use span a gap between the building and the
               back of the cladding.
46.   A closure assembly as claimed in claim 45 wherein the cavity closer member
includes an outer edge defining a line of outer extent, and gaps or holes within the line of
outer extent which, in use will let casual water run through or past the cavity closer
member.
47.   A closure assembly as claimed in claim 46 wherein the cavity closer member
includes a lip extending upward and inward to at least partially overhang one or more of
the openings or holes.
48.   A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building with an outer

                                           - 69
cladding layer, the closure assembly comprising a frame with at least a jamb
frame member, a head frame member and a connector comprising
            *   a sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer sealed surface of
                the building at least partially around the periphery of the opening,
            .   the sealing flange including an overlapping portion configured to
                operationally overlap with a flange on one or more selected from
                    o   a jamb frame member; and
                    o   a head frame member.
49.  A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building with an outer
cladding layer, the closure assembly comprising a frame with at least a jamb
frame member, a head frame member and a connector comprising
            *   a sealing flange configured for abutment with an outer sealed surface of
                the building at least partially around the periphery of the opening,
            " the sealing flange including an overlapping portion configured to
                operationally overlap with a flange on one or more selected from
                    o   a jamb frame member; and
                    o   a head frame member.
50.  A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building, the closing
assembly comprising
            *   a frame with an exterior surface intended to be outside the exterior
                cladding of a building when installed, an interior surface intended to be
                exposed to the interior of the building when installed and peripheral
                surfaces intended to be exposed to the interior of a cavity between the
                cladding and sealed frame of the building when installed,
            "   portions of the interior surface and peripheral surfaces configured and
                adapted to guide casual water, along predetermined paths to a conduit
                located towards the bottom of the frame,
            *   the conduit including an opening in the peripheral surfaces of the frame,
                such that when installed, this opening is to the interior of the cavity, an
                opening in the exterior surfaces of the frame for discharging casual
                water collected received at the conduit exterior of the cladding, and an
                opening in the interior surfaces of the frame for receiving casual water,

                                            - 70
                  with the exterior surface opening being lower than the interior surface
                  opening and the peripheral surface opening, such that water received
                  through the interior surface opening may discharge through the exterior
                  surface opening.
51.   A closure assembly as claimed in 50 wherein the conduit is defined by surfaces of a
combination of parts of the frame.
52.   A closure assembly as claimed in 50 wherein the frame includes a jamb member
and a sill member, and the conduit is defined at least in part within a corner member
that connects with both the jamb member and the sill member.
53.   A closure assembly as claimed in either claim 50 or claim 52 wherein the conduit is
defined in part by a collection trough and the opening in the peripheral surfaces is
defined by an edge of the collection trough and by a surface of a jamb member.
54.   A closure assembly as claimed in claim 53 wherein the frame includes a sill
member, and the collection trough extends under a portion of the sill member, and the
opening in the inside surfaces of the frame comprises an opening through the sill
member.
55.   A closure assembly as claimed in claim 54 wherein the sill member includes a
collection channel and the opening in the inside surfaces of the frame is in the base of
the collection channel.
56.   A closure assembly as claimed in claim 55 wherein the opening is immediately at an
end of the collection channel and is defined by an edge of the sill member and a face of
an adjacent jamb member.
57.   A closure assembly as claimed in either claim 55 or claim 56 wherein the trough
extends beyond the interior edge of the collection channel and the wall defining the
interior end of the trough reaches a level above the level of the bottom of the collection
channel.
58.   A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 53 to 57 wherein the jamb
member includes a flange portion and the trough includes an extension that surrounds
the lower end of the flange portion, with a gap between the edge of the trough and
surfaces of the flange portion, so that casual water on the flange portion may be received
into the trough.
59.   A closure assembly as claimed in any one of claims 53 to 57 wherein the trough
includes flow surfaces which all fall toward the exterior surface opening.
60.   A closure assembly for closing an opening in a building with an outer

                                            - 71
cladding layer, the closure assembly comprising a frame with at least a jamb
frame member, a head frame member and a head flashing member above the
head frame member, and a connector comprising
              *  an end stop formation configured for at least partially restricting flow of
                 casual water along the length one or more selected from the head frame
                 member and the head flashing member; and
              *  securing formations for securely coupling a jamb frame member and
                 one or more selected from
                     o   a head frame member, and
                     o   a head flashing frame member.
61.   A closure assembly as claimed in claim 60 wherein the connector overhangs the
jamb frame member, and includes a surface sloped to lead from the overhang toward the
jamb frame member, terminating adjacent the surface of the jamb frame member.
62.   A closure assembly as claimed in either claim 60 or claim 61 wherein the head
member includes a collection channel, and the connector includes one or more apertures
or notches aligned with an end of the collection channel, level with the base of the
collection channel.
63.   A closure assembly as substantially described herein with or without reference to
the accompanying figures.
64.   A method of fitting a joinery unit as substantially described herein with or without
reference to the accompanying figures.
65.   A method of manufacturing a joinery unit as substantially described herein with or
without reference to the accompanying figures.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
