   ABSTRACT
   According to an aspect, a binaural cochlear implant system is disclosed. The sys
 5 tem includes an implantable stimulator; an ipsilateral cochlear implant electrode
   array connected to the stimulator and a lead connected to the stimulator at a first
   end of the lead and provided with a contralateral binaural cochlear implant elec
   trode array at a second end of the lead, the lead being configured to be implanted
   beneath the skin above the skull of a hearing aid user, wherein the lead comprises
10 at least one electrical wire connecting the contralateral binaural cochlear implant
   electrode array with the stimulator, and a reinforcement fiber running along length
   of the at least one electrical wire.
15 (Figure 3A to be published)

                                3/8
8
                                                              56
                          50        52         Fig. 3A     58
          20   30
                           10
             60
  Fig. 3B
                    62
                           62                            Fig. 3E
62   Fig. 3C    60          50   Fig. 3D            62
                       60                   5050
       50                    10 62         10
     6060      10  62   10             60      60                60
   62        0                          50   1050
                                              62
               50          *
                   62
Fig. 3F                  Fig. 3G                     Fig. 3H

                                               1
   TITLE
                            "Binaural Cochlear Implant System"
   FIELD
 5 The present disclosure relates to a binaural cochlear implant system comprising an
   implantable stimulator. More particularly, the disclosure relates to a binaural coch
   lear implant system using reinforcement of a contralateral lead of the binaural
   cochlear implant.
10 BACKGROUND
   Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference
   to information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided
   only for the purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the
   present invention, and is not an acknowledgement or admission that any of that
15 material forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia or any other
   country as at the priority date of the application in relation to which this specifica
   tion has been filed.
   Among cochlear implant systems, the most commonly used device is a monaural
20 cochlear implant configured to electrically stimulate an auditory nerve of a cochlea
   at one ear in order to generate hearing perception. As an alternative to the monaural
   cochlear implant, it is possible to use a binaural implant configured to provide the
   patient with a pseudo stereophony through simultaneous stimulation of cochleae at
   both ear using an ipsilateral electrode and a contralateral electrode.
25
   As a binaural implant requires implanting two electrode arrays, a more complicated
   surgery is required than for implanting a classic monaural cochlear implant. During
   the surgery, the electrical wires to be placed into the lead during the tunneling of
   the electrode array can easily be damaged.
30
   During the binaural implantation, there is a risk of rupturing electrical wires when
   the contralateral electrode array is pulled into the tunnel. There is also a risk of

                                                2
   damaging the electrode array itself. In the prior art, a long silicone tubing covers
   and protects the electrode array and is maintained by friction silicone on silicone,
   but sometimes this tubing sticks on the lead and is difficult to remove.
 5 It is desirable to be able to provide a binaural cochlear implant system that reduces
   or even eliminates the risk of damage on the electrical wires of the lead, during the
   tunneling of the electrode array so that the electrodes can be protected during the
   surgery.
10 It would also be desirable to provide a binaural cochlear implant system that re
   quires a smaller size of tunnelling in order to reduce the time of healing of subja
   cent tissues. It may be further desirable to allow for reducing the number of steps
   required to pass the array. The present disclosure provides at least an alternative to
   the prior art.
15
   It is in light of such background, for example, that the present invention has arisen.
   SUMMARY
   According to an aspect of the disclosure the binaural cochlear implant system com
20 prises:
   -       an implantable stimulator;
   -       an ipsilateral cochlear implant electrode array connected to the stimulator and
   -     a lead connected to the stimulator at a first end of the lead and provided with a
   contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array at a second end of the lead,
25 the lead being configured to be implanted beneath the skin above the skull of a
   hearing aid user,
   wherein the lead comprises at least one electrical wire connecting the contralateral
   binaural cochlear implant electrode array with the stimulator, and a reinforcement
   fiber running along length of the at least one electrical wire.
30
   Hereby it is possible to provide a binaural cochlear implant system that reduces or
   even eliminates the risk of damage on the electrical wires in the lead, during the
   tunneling of the electrode array. Accordingly, the electrodes can be protected dur-

                                                3
   ing the surgery by using the binaural cochlear implant system according to the dis
   closure.
   The binaural cochlear implant system comprises an implantable stimulator and the
 5 ipsilateral cochlear implant electrode array connected to the stimulator may have
   any suitable size and geometry.
   The lead connected to the stimulator at a first end of the lead and being provided
   with a contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array at a second end of the
10 lead may have any suitable length and thickness. However, since the lead is con
   figured to be implanted beneath the skin above the skull of a hearing aid user, it is
   preferred that the thickness of the lead is as small as possible in order to minimize
   the size of the tunnelling in order to reduce the time of healing of subjacent tissues.
15 The lead comprises at least one electrical wire connecting the contralateral binaural
   cochlear implant electrode array with the stimulator, and a reinforcement fiber run
   ning along length of the at least one electrical wire.
   The reinforcement fiber may be made of any suitable material and have any suita
20 ble thickness. The reinforcement fiber may be made in an implantable grade plastic
   such as Polyether ether ketone (PEEK), Poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), Poly
   ethylen (PE), and Aramid, however, the reinforcement fiber may alternatively be
   made in implantable metal such as grade stainless steel.
25 According to an embodiment of the disclosure, the reinforcement fiber is stronger
   than the at least one electrical wire. It may be beneficial that the reinforcement fi
   ber has strength that is larger than the at least one electrical wire. It may be pre
   ferred that the reinforcement fiber has a tensile strength that is larger than the at
   least one electrical wire. This will provide reliability and ease during the passage
30 through the skin.
   According to another embodiment of the disclosure, the binaural cochlear implant
   system comprises a fixation member at the second end of the lead, the fixation

                                               4
   member being configured to allow through passage of the contralateral binaural
   cochlear implant electrode array.
   Hereby, it is possible to provide a permanent fixation of the reinforcing fiber on the
 5 stimulator and on the fixation member. The fixation may be provided by means of
   glue, crimping, melting, ultrasound or laser welding. It may be an advantage that an
   opening configured to provide access to the reinforcing fiber is provided on a side
   of the fixation member.
10 The fixation member may secure that when the lead reaches its maximum elonga
   tion, the reinforcing fiber is loaded and transfers the force to the fixation member.
   The fixation member may be made of a rigid and hard implantable material such as
   an implantable grade plastic polyether ether ketone (PEEK) or polymethyl methac
15 rylate (PMMA).
   The fixation member may be shaped and configured to temporarily receive and
   firmly maintain a disposable protection structure of the contralateral electrode array
   during the packaging and storing, and especially during the surgery.
20
   It may be an advantage that the at least one wire is fixedly attached to the fixation
   member.
   It may be beneficial that the fixation member is arranged in such a manner that the
25 stimulator is positioned on one side of the fixation member and the contralateral
   electrode array is positioned on an opposite side of the fixation member.
   According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the fixation member is configured
   to fix a distance between the lead and the at least one electrical wire in accordance
30 with the positioning of the lead and at least one wire at or within the fixation mem
   ber.

                                              5
   According to another aspect of the disclosure during insertion of the contralateral
   binaural cochlear implant electrode array, further comprises a protection member,
   the protection member being configured to be removably attached to a distal end of
   the fixation member and to protectively surround the contralateral binaural cochlear
 5 implant electrode array. Hereby, the surgeon is able to handling the binaural coch
   lear implant system and touching the protection member in a manner that elimi
   nates the risk of damaging the contralateral electrode array.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the protection member is dis
10 posable.
   Hereby, the disposable protection protects the electrode array during packaging,
   storage and surgery and be thrown away after use.
15 According to another aspect of the disclosure the fixation member is configured to
   enable temporary fixation of the (disposable) protection member.
   According to a further aspect of the disclosure the protection member is tube
   shaped and configured to receive and contain an electrode array.
20
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the protection member is configured
   to be fixed to the fixation member by means of suture. Additionally or alternative
   ly, the protection member is configured to be fixed to the fixation member by
   means of a U-shaped clip configured to immovably press the protection member
25 with respect to the fixation member. Apart from the disclosed means, it is apparent
   that other means may also be employed, wherein the means is configured to be
   removed such that the protection member and the fixation member may be de
   tached from each other, typically immediately prior to insertion of contralateral
   electrode array into the cochlea.
30
   According to a further aspect of the disclosure the protection member has a circular
   cross section.

                                               6
   According to another aspect of the disclosure, the protection member has an oval
   cross section.
   Hereby the protection member can easily slide into the tunneling under the skin.
 5
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the protection member com
   prises a means such as a hole arranged at a distal end of the protection member and
   being configured to allow attaching a surgical tool, for example by using a suture,
   configured to facilitate passage of the contralateral binaural cochlear implant elec
10 trode array beneath the skin.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the arced proximal edge of the pro
   tection member comprises at section of a predetermined shape, such as a rectangu
   lar shape but preferably a spherical surface.
15
   Hereby it is possible to attach the protection member to a surgical tool by a means
   such as a hole and preferably a suture. Accordingly, introduction of the protection
   member into the tunneling under the skin can be eased.
20 According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the surgical tool comprises
   attachment elements configured to attach the surgical tool to the protection mem
   ber.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the wherein the surgical tool is pro
25 vided with a sharp edge.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the surgical tool is provided
   with a flexible blade.
30 According to another aspect of the disclosure the lead comprises a multi-lumen
   tubing provided with a plurality of separated through-going canals configured to
   allow passage of the at least one electrical wire and the reinforcement fiber from
   the stimulator to at least to the fixation member.

                                                7
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the lead comprises a monolumen tub
   ing provided with a through-going canal configured to allow passage of the at least
   one electrical wire and the reinforcement fiber from the stimulator to at least to the
 5 fixation member.
   Hereby, it is possible to position the at least one electrical wire and the reinforce
   ment fiber in separate canals in order to achieve predefined positions of the at least
   one electrical wire and the reinforcement fiber relative to each other.
10
   According to a further aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement member and the at
   least one wire are positioned in separate through-going canals.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the relative distance between the rein
15 forcement member and at least one wire is defined by relative positioning of the
   through-going canals.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing has an
   oval cross section. According to an aspect, the multi-lumen tubing has a rectangular
20 cross section. It is apparent that the multi-lumen tubing may include a different
   cross section such as circular.
   Hereby it is possible to have two cylindrical through-going canals for wires and for
   a reinforcement fiber. Furthermore, it can be ensured that the traction force applied
25 to the reinforcement fiber prevent the electrical wires (in order to make sure that
   the electric wire(s) will not be damaged).
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing has a
   circular cross section.
30
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing is provided
   with through-going canals having an oval cross section.

                                               8
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing is
   provided with through-going canals having a circular cross section.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing is provided
 5 with two or more through-going canals.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing is
   provided with three or more through-going canals.
10 According to another aspect of the disclosure the multi-lumen tubing is provided
   with four or more through-going canals.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber has a
   uniform cross section. According to an aspect, the reinforcement fiber has a non
15 uniform cross section for example cross section area reducing from ipsilateral end
   to contralateral end. According to another aspect, the reinforcement fiber has a non
   uniform cross section for example cross section area increasing from ipsilateral end
   to contralateral end. The non-uniform cross-section may be designed in order to
   withstand stress on the electrical wire/ fiber during surgery and/ or during use of
20 the binaural CI device more effectively.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber has a circular
   cross section.
25 According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber has an
   oval cross section.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber has a basical
   ly rectangular cross section.
30
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber com
   prises an implantable fabric.

                                               9
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the implantable fabric is a polyester
   mesh.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber com
 5 prises a sheath.
   According to an aspect of the disclosure the sheath is a knitted sheath.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the sheath is a knitted sheath
10 coextruded into a tubing.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the lead comprises the rein
   forcement fiber and a secondary reinforcement fiber arranged within the lead,
   wherein the secondary reinforcement fiber is arranged to run along the length of the
15 reinforcement fiber and to extend beyond the fixation member. In a specific scenar
   io including explantation of the contralateral electrode array, the secondary rein
   forcement fiber further provides additional strength and allows for avoiding poten
   tial breaking the electrical wires when the electrical wire along with the fiber is
   pulled out of the tunnel. In absence of (secondary) reinforcement fiber, such break
20 age would make explantation complicated because the broken part of the electrical
   wire retained within the skin would have to be extracted with a follow up surgery.
   Hereby, the first reinforcement fiber can reinforce the lead allowing the required
   pull forces to be applied during the surgery and the secondary reinforcement fiber
25 (arranged in the lead) can, when the lead has reached its maximum elongation, the
   second reinforcing fiber transfer force (e.g. to the fixation member).
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber is stretchable
   along its length.
30
   Hereby, it is possible to extend the reinforcement fiber. As the heads of children are
   growing. The use of a wire comprising a reinforcement fiber that is stretchable

                                               10
   along its length allows for an already implanted binaural electrode to be stretched.
   Hereby, the reliability solution can be increased.
   According to a further aspect of the disclosure the reinforcement fiber comprises a
 5 stretchable mesh structure or stretchable knitted sheath.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the secondary reinforcement fiber
   comprises a stop member attached to a distal end of the secondary reinforcement
   fiber, the stop member being configured to cooperate with the fixation member in
10 response to stretching of the reinforcement fiber.
   Hereby, one can prevent the reinforcement fiber to completely slide out a fixation
   member.
15 According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the stop member is config
   ured to restrict further stretching of the reinforcement fiber through cooperation
   between the stop member and fixation member once the reinforcement fiber has
   been stretched by a predefined allowable length.
20 According to another aspect of the disclosure the restriction of further traction of
   the secondary reinforcement fiber once the reinforcement fiber has been pulled into
   a predefined maximal allowable length configuration is achieved by bringing the
   protection member into contact with a portion of the fixation member.
25 Hereby, it is possible to provide a safe solution that prevents overstretching.
   According to an even further aspect of the secondary reinforcement fiber is config
   ured to transfer force to the fixation member when the lead has reached its maxi
   mum predefined allowable elongation.
30
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the fixation member comprises an
   opening configured to provide access to the reinforcement fiber for allowing cut-

                                               11
   ting the first reinforcement fiber when the reinforcement fiber has been stretched
   by the predefined allowable length.
   Hereby, cutting the first reinforcement fiber is eased.
 5
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure a protective layer at least part
   ly surrounds the electrical wire(s). Such protective layer may comprise a silicone
   tubing.
10 The protective layer secures that direct contact between the hard fixation member
   and the fragile electric wire(s) can be avoided.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the protective layer is made in a soft
   material.
15
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the fixation member compris
   es a receiving section configured to receive an attachment structure that is config
   ured to immovably attach the fixation member to skull bone of the user.
20 Hereby, the attachment of the attachment structure can be eased. It is furthermore
   possible to stabilize the inserted contralateral electrode array.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the attachment structure is selected
   from a group consisting of a suture that is configured to affix with the skull bone
25 and a strip comprising at least two holes configured to receive implantable screw
   that is fixable to skull bone of the user.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the protection member com
          prises:
30 -      a lumen adapted to at least partially receive the fixation member and com
          pletely receive the contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array and
   -      a groove adapted to receive a suture,
   wherein the suture is adapted to provide attachment between the

                                                 12
   protection to the fixation member.
   Hereby, it is possible to provide a user-friendly and reliable solution.
 5 According to another aspect of the disclosure the kit is a kit comprising a binaural
   cochlear implant system according to the disclosure and one or more of the follow
   ing: protection member, suture, surgical tool, implantable screws, attachment struc
   ture.
10 Such kit makes it possible to reduce even eliminates the risk of damage on the elec
   trical wires in the lead, during the tunneling of the electrode array so that the elec
   trodes can be protected during the surgery. Furthermore, the kit enables the surgeon
   to minimize the size of tunnelling, whereby the time of healing of subjacent tissues
   can be reduced.
15
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
   cochlear implant system comprises the following steps:
   -      positioning a stimulator in the mastoid bone;
   -      inserting an ipsilateral electrode array;
20 -      performing a vertex incision and a tunnelling by means of a surgical tool; and
   -      inserting a contra-lateral electrode array
   This surgical tool may be a flexible tool comprising a flexible blade.
25 It may be an advantage that a sharp edge is provided on its proximal side. Hereby,
   it is possible to lift off the fascia from the periosteum.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
   cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
30 -               attaching a disposable protection to the surgical tool, prior to remov
                   ing the flexible tool and after a tunnelling from the vertex incision to
                   the ipsilateral side is provided.

                                              13
   According to a further aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
   cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             pulling off the surgical tool from the tunnelling until the lead has been
                 taken out in vertex position.
 5
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             performing a contralateral incision;
   -             performing a tunnelling from the controlateral side to the vertex inci
10               sion by means of the surgical tool.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
   cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             performing a contralateral incision;
15 -             performing a tunnelling from the controlateral side to the vertex inci
                 sion by means of the surgical tool.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
20 -             attaching the disposable protection to the surgical tool;
   -             pulling the surgical tool back and taking off the lead in the con
                 trolateral position.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
25 cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             closing the vertex incision.
   According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
30 -             removing the disposable protection.
   This may be done by cutting and removing a non-absorbable suture or the U
   shaped pin. It is apparent to the skilled person that other means used to fix the pro-

                                              14
   tection member with the fixation member may now be removed in order to achieve
   this step.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
 5 cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             while having access to the fixation member fixing the fixation mem
                 ber with either a suture attached to the bone or a jump and one or
                 more implantable screws.
10 According to an even further aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             insertion of a controlateral electrode array into the cochlea.
   According to another aspect of the disclosure the method for implanting a binaural
15 cochlear implant system comprises the following step:
   -             closing the controlateral incision.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   The aspects of the disclosure may be best understood from the following detailed
20 description taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures. The figures are
   schematic and simplified for clarity, and they just show details to improve the un
   derstanding of the claims, while other details are left out. Throughout, the same
   reference numerals are used for identical or corresponding parts. The individual
   features of each aspect may each be combined with any or all features of the other
25 aspects. These and other aspects, features and/or technical effect will be apparent
   from and elucidated with reference to the illustrations described hereinafter in
   which:
   Fig. 1A       shows a schematic view of a prior art cochlear implant including the
30               external and implanted parts;
   Fig. lB       shows a schematic view of the principle of functioning of a prior art
                 cochlear implant;
   Fig. 2A       shows a schematic view of a prior art a binaural cochlear implant;

                                        15
   Fig. 2B shows a schematic view of a prior art a binaural cochlear implant;
   Fig. 2C shows a schematic view of a prior art tool applied to provide a hollow
           path;
   Fig. 2D shows a schematic view of a prior art procedure, in which the contra
 5         lateral electrode being inserted into the hollow path shown in Fig. 2C;
   Fig. 2E shows a schematic view of the contralateral electrode inserted into the
           hollow path shown in Fig. 2C;
   Fig. 3A shows a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system ac
           cording to an embodiment of the disclosure;
10 Fig. 3B shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to an
           embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 3C shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to anoth
           er embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 3D shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to a fur
15         ther embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 3E shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to anoth
           er embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 3F shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to an
           even further embodiment of the disclosure;
20 Fig. 3G shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to a fur
           ther embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 3H shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to anoth
           er embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 4A shows a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system ac
25         cording to an embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 4B shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to an
           embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 4C shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to anoth
           er embodiment of the disclosure;
30 Fig. 4D shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to a fur
           ther embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 4E shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to anoth
           er embodiment of the disclosure;

                                      16
   Fig. 4F shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to an
           even further embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 4G shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to a fur
           ther embodiment of the disclosure;
 5 Fig. 5A shows a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system ac
           cording to an embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 5B shows a schematic, close-up view of the view of a fixation member of
           the binaural cochlear implant system shown in Fig. 5A;
   Fig. 5C shows a schematic, cross-sectional view of the fixation member
10         shown in Fig. 5B;
   Fig. 5D shows a schematic, perspective view of a part of the binaural cochlear
           implant system shown in Fig. 5A;
   Fig. 5E shows a schematic, side view of the binaural cochlear implant system
           shown in Fig. 5D;
15 Fig. 6A shows a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead according to an
           embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 6B shows a schematic, cross sectional view of the lead shown in Fig. 6A,
           in a first configuration;
   Fig. 6C shows another schematic, cross sectional view of the lead shown in
20         Fig. 6A, in a second configuration;
   Fig. 6D shows a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system ac
           cording to an embodiment of the disclosure;
   Fig. 6E shows a close-up view of the fixation member of the binaural cochle
           ar implant system shown in Fig. 6D in a first configuration;
25 Fig. 6F shows a close-up view of the fixation member of the binaural cochle
           ar implant system shown in Fig. 6D in a second configuration;
   Fig. 6G shows a close-up view of an electrical wire of a binaural cochlear
           implant system according to the invention in a first un-stretched con
           figuration;
30 Fig. 6H shows a close-up view of an electrical wire of a binaural cochlear
           implant system according to the disclosure in a second stretched con
           figuration;

                                              17
   Fig. 7A       shows a schematic view of a first step of a method for implanting a
                 binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure;
   Fig. 7B       shows a schematic view of a second step of the method for implanting
                 a binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure;
 5 Fig. 7C       shows a schematic view of a third step of the method for implanting a
                 binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure;
   Fig. 7D       shows a schematic view of a fourth step of the method for implanting
                 a binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure;
   Fig. 7E       shows a schematic view of a sixth step of the method for implanting a
10               binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure;
   Fig. 7F       shows a schematic view of a seventh step of the method for implant
                 ing a binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure;
   Fig. 8A       shows a schematic view of a tool according to the disclosure;
   Fig. 8B       shows a close-up view of the distal portion of the tool shown in Fig.
15               8A;
   Fig. 8C       shows a schematic view of the tool shown in Fig. 8A attached to a
                 disposable protection member;
   Fig. 8D       shows a schematic view of a fixation member being attached to a
                 bone by means of suture and
20 Fig. 8E       shows a schematic view of a fixation member being attached to a
                 bone by means of a jump and two implantable screws.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings
25 is intended as a description of various configurations. The detailed description
   includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of
   various concepts. However, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these
   concepts may be practiced without these specific details.
30 A hearing device may include a hearing aid that is adapted to improve or augment
   the hearing capability of a user by receiving an acoustic signal from a user's sur
   roundings, generating a corresponding audio signal, possibly modifying the audio
   signal and providing the possibly modified audio signal as an audible signal to at

                                               18
   least one of the user's ears. Such audible signals is provided in the form of electric
   signals transferred directly or indirectly to cochlear nerve.
   The hearing device is adapted to be worn in any known way. This may include ar
 5 ranging a unit of the hearing device as an entirely or partly implanted unit such as
   in Cochlear Implant.
   A "hearing system" refers to a system comprising one or two hearing devices, and
   a "binaural hearing system" refers to a system comprising two hearing devices
10 where the devices are adapted to cooperatively provide audible signals to both of
   the user's ears. The hearing system or binaural hearing system may further include
   auxiliary device(s) that communicates with at least one hearing device, the auxilia
   ry device affecting the operation of the hearing devices and/or benefitting from the
   functioning of the hearing devices. A wired or wireless communication link be
15 tween the at least one hearing device and the auxiliary device is established that
   allows for exchanging information (e.g. control and status signals, possibly audio
   signals) between the at least one hearing device and the auxiliary device. Such aux
   iliary devices may include at least one of remote controls, remote microphones,
   audio gateway devices, mobile phones, public-address systems, car audio systems
20 or music players or a combination thereof. The audio gateway is adapted to receive
   a multitude of audio signals such as from an entertainment device like a TV or a
   music player, a telephone apparatus like a mobile telephone or a computer, a PC.
   The audio gateway is further adapted to select and/or combine an appropriate one
   of the received audio signals (or combination of signals) for transmission to the at
25 least one hearing device. The remote control is adapted to control functionality and
   operation of the at least one hearing devices. The function of the remote control
   may be implemented in a SmartPhone or other electronic device, the SmartPhone/
   electronic device possibly running an application that controls functionality of the
   at least one hearing device.
30
   In general, a hearing device includes i) an input unit such as a microphone for re
   ceiving an acoustic signal from a user's surroundings and providing a correspond
   ing input audio signal, and/or ii) a receiving unit for electronically receiving an

                                              19
   input audio signal. The hearing device further includes a signal processing unit for
   processing the input audio signal and an output unit for providing an audible signal
   to the user in dependence on the processed audio signal.
 5 The input unit may include multiple input microphones, e.g. for providing direc
   tion-dependent audio signal processing. Such directional microphone system is
   adapted to enhance a target acoustic source among a multitude of acoustic sources
   in the user's environment. In one aspect, the directional system is adapted to detect
   (such as adaptively detect) from which direction a particular part of the microphone
10 signal originates. This may be achieved by using conventionally known methods.
   The signal processing unit may include amplifier that is adapted to apply a fre
   quency dependent gain to the input audio signal. The signal processing unit may
   further be adapted to provide other relevant functionality such as compression,
   noise reduction, etc. The output unit may include an output transducer such as one
15 or more output electrodes for providing the electric signals such as in a cochlear
   implant.
   Now referring to Fig. 1A, which illustrates a prior art cochlear implant including an
   external device (a hearing aid) 2 coupled to an electromagnetic coupling arranged
20 on the skin of a hearing aid user close to an implanted stimulator 8. A lead 10 is
   electrically connected to the implanted stimulator 8 and to an electrode 4 inserted
   into the cochlea 6 for electrically stimulate the auditory nerve in order to produce
   hearing sensation.
25 Fig. 1B illustrates a schematic view of the principle of functioning of a prior art
   cochlear implant. The external device 2 is a hearing aid 2 comprising a battery 22
   and a microphone 14 electrically connected to a signal processor 18 that is electri
   cally connected to a coil 28 configured to wirelessly communicate (electromagnetic
   coupling 24) with the implanted stimulator comprising a coil 28' electrically con
30 nected to an electrode array 20 via stimulation electronics 26.

                                               20
   The stimulation electronics 26 transforms information received from the external
   device 2 into electrical signals that are sent via the electrode array 20 to electrically
   stimulate the auditory nerve of the hearing aid user.
 5 Fig. 2A illustrates a schematic view of a prior art binaural cochlear implant 30
   comprising an implantable stimulator 8 and a first electrode array 20 and a second
   electrode array 20' electrically connected to the implantable stimulator 8.
   Fig. 2B illustrates a schematic view of a prior art binaural cochlear implant im
10 planted in a hearing aid user 40 having outer ears 12, 12'. A first electrode array is
   arranged in the ipsilateral side 32 and a second electrode array is arranged in the
   controlateral side 34. The first step of the surgery is similar to the one performed
   when implanting a classic monaural cochlear implant. The first step takes place in
   the ipsilateral side 32 and includes: ipsilateral incision; mastoidectomy; placement
15 of the stimulator; cochleostomy and insertion of the electrode array.
   During a prior art binaural surgery additional steps are performed. A tunneling 90
   from ipsilateral side 32 to the cortex is made. A contralateral electrode tunneling
   90' is made and an incision at vertex 36 is created. When the controlateral elec
20 trode has been inserted through this first tunnel 90 the ipsilateral side 32 is closed.
   When the ipsilateral implantation has been done, the ipsilateral incision has been
   closed and the hearing aid user 40 can be moved on the surgical table so that the
   controlateral side 34 faces the surgeon.
25
   A controlateral incision is made in the controlateral side 34 and a tunneling 90'
   from vertex to controlateral side 34 is provided in order to insert the controlateral
   electrode through this tunnel 90'. Hereafter the incision at vertex 36 is closed.
30 The finishing operations take place on the controlateral side 34 and correspond to
   the ones carried out in a classic implantation. These operation steps include: mas
   toidectomy; cochleostomy; insertion of the controlateral electrode array and even
   tually the closing of the controlateral implantation site 34.

                                               21
   Fig. 2C illustrates a schematic view of a prior art tool 42 applied to provide a hol
   low path 38 (a canal/tunnelling in the skin). The tool 42 comprises an enlarged dis
   tal portion configured to create a hollow path 38 by moving the tool 42 in the direc
 5 tion 46 indicated by the arrow.
   Fig. 2D illustrates a schematic view of a prior art procedure, in which the contrala
   teral electrode array 20 of a prior art binaural cochlear implant system 30 arranged
   in a tube 44 is being inserted into the hollow path 38 shown in Fig. 2C. The contra
10 lateral electrode array 20 is electrically connected to an implantable stimulator 8
   that is further electrically connected to a second electrode array 20'. The tube 44 is
   being inserted by moving the tube in the direction 46 indicated by a direction arrow
   46.
15 Fig. 2E illustrates a schematic view of the contralateral electrode array 20 that has
   been inserted into the hollow path 38 shown in Fig. 2D. The tube shown in Fig. 2D
   has been removed.
   Fig. 3A illustrates a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system 30 ac
20 cording to an embodiment of the disclosure. The binaural cochlear implant system
   30 comprises an implantable stimulator 8 electrically connected to a first, ipsilateral
   electrode array 20 and a second, controlateral electrode array 20'. The binaural
   cochlear implant system 30 comprises a lead 10 comprising an electrical connec
   tion between the stimulator 8 and the controlateral electrode array 20'. The im
25 plantable stimulator 8 contains electronics and a coil (as explained with reference
   to Fig. 1B). In the proximal end 56 of the protection member 54 a hole 58 may be
   provided.
   A reinforcement fiber 50 extends parallel to/ along the electrical wires 48 of the
30 lead 10. The reinforcing fiber 50 may be made of any suitable implantable material
   such as PEEK, PMMA, PE, aramid, metal (e.g. implantable grade stainless steel) or
   combinations thereof. The reinforcement fiber 50 is attached to the stimulator 8 and
   on a fixation member 52 provided at the proximal end of a protection member 54.

                                             22
   The reinforcement fiber 50 may be attached to the stimulator 8 and to the fixation
   member 52 by any suitable attachment means. The reinforcement fiber 50 may be
   glued, crimped, melted, ultrasound fixed or laser welded to the stimulator 8 and to
 5 the fixation member 52. The fixation member 52 may be made of a rigid and hard
   implantable material such as an implantable grade plastic PEEK, PMMA.
   The electrical wires 48 extend through the fixation member 52 and therefore the
   electrical wires 48 are protected from handling during surgery. The fixation mem
10 ber 52 is configured to temporarily receive and firmly maintain a disposable protec
   tion member 54 of the controlateral electrode array 20' during packaging, storing
   and surgery.
   Actually, the surgeon will be able to handle the binaural cochlear implant system
15 30 and thus touch the disposable protection member 54 without risking damage of
   the controlateral electrode array 20'. When the binaural cochlear implant system 30
   has been implanted, the surgeon will be able to remove the disposable protection
   member 54 and finish the surgery. The disposable protection member 54 typically
   includes a spherical proximal end 56 in order to ease insertion into a tunneling un
20 der the skin. A hole 213 allows to the surgeon to put a suture in order to help the
   introduction of the device into the tunneling performed under the skin.
   Fig. 3B illustrates a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead 10 according to an
   embodiment of the disclosure. The lead 10 comprises a multi-lumen tubing 60 with
25 an oval cross section in order to have two inner cylindrical paths respectively to
   allow the placement of electrical wires 62 and a reinforcement fiber 50.
   The lead 10 is provided with two separate holes. Hereby, it is possible to separate
   the electrical wires 62 and the reinforcement fiber 50. Accordingly, tensile forces
30 applied on the strong reinforcement fiber 50 will not damage the fragile electrical
   wires 62. Even though micro movements can be expected on the lead 10, they will
   not provoke frictions and wear of the insulation of the electrical wires 62.

                                              23
   Fig. 3C to Fig. 3H illustrate schematic, cross sectional views of leads 10 according
   to different embodiments of the disclosure. The lead 10 can be arranged in a multi
   lumen tubing 60 having a cylindrical or oval cross section. The multi-lumen tubing
   60 may have different numbers of holes (canals) of various geometry including
 5 cylindrical and oval cross sections. The multi-lumen tubing 60 is provided with a
   reinforcement fiber 50. The reinforcement fiber 50 may be round/arced, flat, circu
   lar or oval or any combinations thereof and may be made in any suitable material
   including an implantable fabric such as polyester mesh or be made as a knitted
   sheath, e.g. a knitted sheath that is coextruded directly into the multi-lumen tubing
10 60.
   Fig. 4A illustrates a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system 30 ac
   cording to an embodiment of the disclosure. The binaural cochlear implant system
   30 basically corresponding to the binaural cochlear implant system shown in Fig.
15 3A, however, an opening 66 is provided in the fixation member 52. The fixation
   member 52 may be made of any suitable material e.g. a rigid and hard implantable
   material such as an implantable grade plastic PEEK, PMMA.
   Fig. 4B to Fig. 4G illustrate schematic, cross sectional views of leads 10 according
20 to different embodiments of the disclosure. It can be seen that the lead 10 can be
   arranged in a multi-lumen tubing 60 having a cylindrical or oval cross section. The
   multi-lumen tubing 60 may have different numbers of holes (canals) of various
   geometry including cylindrical and oval cross sections. Each multi-lumen tubing 60
   is provided with a first reinforcement fiber 50 and a secondary reinforcement fiber
25 50'. The reinforcement fibers 50, 50' may be round/arced, flat, circular or oval and
   may be made in any suitable material including an implantable fabric such as poly
   ester mesh or be made as a knitted sheath, e.g. a knitted sheath that is coextruded
   directly into the multi-lumen tubing 60.
30 Fig. 5A illustrates a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system 30 ac
   cording to an embodiment of the disclosure. The binaural cochlear implant system
   30 basically corresponding to the binaural cochlear implant system shown in Fig.
   3A.

                                              24
   Fig. 5B illustrates a schematic, close-up view of the view of a fixation member 52
   of the binaural cochlear implant system 30 shown in Fig. 5A. The lead 10 compris
   es a reinforcement fiber 50 extending parallel to electrical wires 48 extending along
 5 the length of the lead 10. The reinforcement fiber 50 is attached to a fixation mem
   ber 52. The electrical wires 48 extend through the fixation member 52 into a hol
   low protection member 54 provided with a hole 58 in its proximal end 56. The
   electrical wires 48 is surrounded by a protective layer 72, preferably made of a soft
   material. The protective layer 72 prevents direct contact between the hard fixation
10 member 52 and the more fragile electrical wires 48. A groove 70 is provided in the
   fixation member 52 and fixing structure 68 is attached in the groove 70.
   The disposable protection member 52 is tubular and the controlateral electrode ar
   ray 20' may be inserted during the manufacturing process. The disposable protec
15 tion member 52 is attached to the fixation member 52 by means of two turns of a
   non-absorbable suture 68. Two opposite grooves 70 are provided in the disposable
   protection member 52 in order to allow the suture 68 to be attached in the grooves
   70.
20 Fig. 5C illustrates a schematic, cross-sectional view of the fixation member 52
   shown in Fig. 5B. It can be seen that the fixation member 52 has an oval cross sec
   tion and that electric wires 62 are arranged in a first canal, whereas a reinforcement
   fiber 50 is provided in another canal arranged in a non-zero distance from the first
   canal. The protection member 54 and the fixing structure 68 explained with refer
25 ence to Fig. 5B are illustrated in Fig. 5C.
   Fig. 5D illustrates a schematic, perspective view of a part of the binaural cochlear
   implant system shown in Fig. 5A. and Fig. 5E illustrates a schematic, side view of
   the binaural cochlear implant system shown in Fig. 5D. It can be seen that the lead
30 10 comprises wires 48 arranged in a first canal spaced from a reinforcement fiber
   50. The binaural cochlear implant system comprises a protection member 54 pro
   vided with openings (grooves) 70 and a fixation member 52 is provided close to the
   proximal end of the protection member 54.

                                               25
   Fig. 6A illustrates a schematic, cross sectional view of a lead 10 according to an
   embodiment of the disclosure. The lead 10 has a basically oval cross section. A
   first reinforcement fiber 50 extends parallel to the periphery of the outer surface of
 5 the lead 10 and a secondary reinforcement fiber 50' is provided in a first canal in
   the lead. Electrical wires 62 extend in a second canal provided in the lead 10.
   Fig. 6B illustrates a schematic, cross sectional view of the lead 10 shown in Fig.
   6A, in a first configuration, in which a reinforcement fiber provided as a knitted
10 sheath 74 is in an initial (un-stretched) state. The meshes 76 are relative small.
   Fig. 6C illustrates a schematic, cross sectional view of the lead 10 shown in Fig.
   6A, in a second configuration, in which the lead 10 is completely stretched and the
   meshes 76 of the knitted sheath 74 have reached their maximum dimensions.
15
   Fig. 6D illustrates a schematic view of a binaural cochlear implant system 30 ac
   cording to an embodiment of the disclosure. The binaural cochlear implant system
   30 comprises an implantable stimulator 8, an ipsilateral electrode array 20 and a
   contralateral electrode array 20' as well as a fixation member 52.
20
   Fig. 6E illustrates a close-up view of the fixation member 52 of the binaural coch
   lear implant system shown in Fig. 6D in a first configuration. The binaural cochlear
   implant system comprises a multi-lumen tubing 60 provided with three canals, in
   which electrical wires 48, a first reinforcement fiber 50 and a secondary reinforce
25 ment fiber 50' extend through.
   A fixation member 52 made of a rigid and hard implantable material is provided at
   the proximal end of the first reinforcement fiber 50. The first reinforcement fiber
   50 is attached to the fixation member 52. It may be glued, crimped, melted, ultra
30 sound fixed or laser welded. The electrical wires 48 extend through another canal
   displaced from the other canals. The electrical wires 48 are surrounded by a protec
   tive layer made of a soft material in order to avoid direct contact between the hard
   fixation member 52 and the electrical wires 48.

                                              26
   An opening 80 is provided in the fixation member 52. The opening 80 is large
   enough to allow a scalpel blade to cut the first reinforcement fiber 50. In this man
   ner, the electrical wires 48 and the secondary reinforcement fiber 50' can be pro
 5 tected from misused.
   The secondary reinforcement fiber 50'extends through a third canal of the fixation
   member 52. A gap between the fiber and the cans allows the fixation member 52 to
   slide along the length of the secondary reinforcement fiber 50'. At its proximal
10 extremity, the secondary reinforcement fiber 50' is provided with a stop member
   78 configured and arranged to prevent the secondary reinforcement fiber 50' from
   sliding out the fixation member 52. Depending of the distance D between the stop
   member 78 and the fixation member 52 in its initial state and when the first rein
   forcement fiber 50 has been cut, the lead 10 will be able to be stretched to a degree
15 corresponding to this distance D, until the stop member 78 will be brought into
   contact with the fixation member 52.
   Fig. 6F illustrates a close-up view of the fixation member 52 of the binaural coch
   lear implant system shown in Fig. 6D in a second configuration. In the shown "re
20 leased state" view, the first reinforcement fiber 50 has been cut by the surgeon
   through the opening 80. A traction force has been applied to the lead 10 by using
   the fixation member 52. Accordingly, the lead 10 has been stretched.
   Consequently, the soft material of the multi-lumen tubing has been stretched. The
25 first reinforcement fiber 50, however, has maintained its length. Therefore, there is
   a gap between the opening 80 and the middle extremity of the first reinforcement
   fiber 50. At the same time, the fixation member 52 slides along the length of the
   second reinforcement fiber 50'. Accordingly, the stop member 78 of the second
   reinforcement member 50' reaches the fixation member 52. Therefore, the relative
30 movement is restricted and the tensile forces are transferred to the lead 10.

                                              27
   The electrical wires 48 need to be capable of being extended without breaking due
   to the stress of the elongation of the lead 10. Accordingly, it is preferred that the
   electrical wires 48 are spring-shaped or coil-shaped.
 5 Fig. 6G illustrates a close-up view of an electrical wire 48 of a binaural cochlear
   implant system according to the invention in a first unstretched configuration,
   whereas Fig. 6H illustrates a close-up view of the electrical wire 48 shown in
   Fig.6G in a second stretched configuration.
10 Fig. 7A illustrates a schematic view of a first step of a method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure. The surgeon has al
   ready arranged the stimulator 8 on the mastoid bone and inserted the ipsilateral
   electrode array 84. The controlateral electrode array and the disposable assembly
   surrounding its distal end are shown next the head of the hearing aid user 40.
15
   Fig. 7B illustrates a schematic view of a second step of the method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure. In this second step
   the surgeon performs a vertex incision 88 and a first tunneling 90 made by means
   of a surgical tool (see Fig. 8). The surgical tool may comprise a flexible blade pro
20 vided with a sharp edge on the proximal side in order to lift off the fascia from the
   periosteum. This surgical tool can be made of soft plastic pebax, PMMA, PC or
   metal such as stainless steel for example.
   Fig. 7C illustrates a schematic view of a third step of the method for implanting a
25 binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure. In the third step,
   when the surgeon has made the tunneling 90 from the vertex incision 88 to the ipsi
   lateral side before removing the tool (see Fig. 8), he has to attach the disposable
   protection 86 to the surgical tool with a suture (see Fig. 8C). Hereafter, the surgical
   tool can be removed from the tunneling 90 and take out the lead in vertex position
30 88.
   Fig. 7D illustrates a schematic view of a fourth step of the method for implanting a
   binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure. In this step the sur-

                                              28
   geon performs a controlateral incision 100 and a tunneling 90' from the con
   trolateral side to the vertex incision 88 by using a tool (see Fig. 8).
   Fig. 7E illustrates a schematic view of a sixth step of the method for implanting a
 5 binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure. In the sixth step the
   surgeon attaches a disposable protection 86 to the surgical tool shown in Fig. 8
   before the tool is pulled back to completely take off the lead in the controlateral
   position 100. The surgeon hereafter closes the vertex incision 88.
10 Fig. 7F illustrates a schematic view of a seventh step of the method for implanting
   a binaural cochlear implant system according to the disclosure. In this step the sur
   geon practices mastoidectomy and cochleostomy. He removes the disposable pro
   tection 86 by cutting and removing the non-absorbable suture. He has access to the
   fixation member and is capable of firmly fixing it with a suture attached to the
15 bone, or with a jump and one or more implantable screws. He can now insert the
   controlateral electrode array into the cochlea. Finally, he closes the controlateral
   incision 100.
   Fig. 8A illustrates a schematic view of a tool 92 according to the disclosure. The
20 tool 92 is configured to create a tunnelling between skull and skin of a hearing aid
   user. Fig. 8B illustrates a close-up view of the distal portion of the tool 92 shown in
   Fig. 8A.
   The surgical tool 92 comprises a flexible blade having a sharp edge 94 provided on
25 its proximal side for allowing the tool to be used to lift off the fascia from the peri
   osteum. The surgical tool 92 comprises a hole 96 provided in the distal end of the
   tool 92.
   Fig. 8C illustrates a schematic view of the tool 92 shown in Fig. 8A attached to a
30 disposable protection assembly 86. The tool 92 is attached to the protection assem
   bly 86 by means of suture attached to a hole 96 provided in the tool 92 and a hole
   96 provided in the protection assembly 86.

                                              29
   Fig. 8D illustrates a schematic view of a fixation member 106 being attached to a
   bone by means of suture 98. The fixation member 106 comprises a receiving sec
   tion 108 configured to receive suture 98.
 5 Fig. 8E illustrates a schematic view of a fixation member 106 being attached to a
   bone by means of a jump 102 and two implantable screws 104. The jump 102 is
   attached to a receiving section 108 of the fixation member 106.
   A Cochlear Implant typically includes i) an external part for picking up and pro
10 cessing sound from the environment, and for determining sequences of pulses for
   stimulation of the electrodes in dependence on the current input sound, ii) a (typi
   cally wireless, e.g. inductive) communication link for simultaneously transmitting
   information about the stimulation sequences and for transferring energy to iii) an
   implanted part allowing the stimulation to be generated and applied to a number of
15 electrodes, which are implantable in different locations of the cochlea allowing a
   stimulation of different frequencies of the audible range. Such systems are e.g. de
   scribed in US 4,207,441 and in US 4,532,930.
   In an aspect, the hearing device comprises multi-electrode array e.g. in the form of
20 a carrier comprising a multitude of electrodes adapted for being located in the
   cochlea in proximity of an auditory nerve of the user. The carrier is preferably
   made of a flexible material to allow proper positioning of the electrodes in the
   cochlea such that the electrodes may be inserted in cochlea of a recipient. Prefera
   bly, the individual electrodes are spatially distributed along the length of the carrier
25 to provide a corresponding spatial distribution along the cochlear nerve in cochlea
   when the carrier is inserted in cochlea.
   As used, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" are intended to include the plural
   forms as well (i.e. to have the meaning "at least one"), unless expressly stated oth
30 erwise. It will be further understood that the terms "include", "comprise", "includ
   ed", comprised", "includes", "comprises", "including", and/or "comprising" when
   used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps,
   operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addi-

                                               30
   tion of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, compo
   nents, and/or groups thereof. It will also be understood that when an element is
   referred to as being "connected" or "coupled" to another element, it can be directly
   connected or coupled to the other element but an intervening elements may also be
 5 present, unless expressly stated otherwise. Furthermore, "connected" or "coupled"
   as used herein may include wirelessly connected or coupled. As used herein, the
   term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated
   listed items. The steps of any disclosed method is not limited to the exact order
   stated herein, unless expressly stated otherwise.
10
   It should be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to "one embod
   iment" or "an embodiment" or "an aspect" or features included as "may" means
   that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the
   embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. Furthermore,
15 the particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined as suitable in
   one or more embodiments of the disclosure. The previous description is provided
   to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described
   herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those
   skilled in the art, and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other
20 aspects. Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled
   in the art are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
   The claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein, but is to be
   accorded the full scope consistent with the language of the claims, wherein refer
25 ence to an element in the singular is not intended to mean "one and only one" un
   less specifically so stated, but rather "one or more." Unless specifically stated oth
   erwise, the term "some" refers to one or more.
   Accordingly, the scope should be judged in terms of the claims that follow.
30

                                           31
   List of reference numerals
       2                    External device
 5     4                    Electrode
       6                    Cochlea
       8                    Stimulator
       10                   Lead
       12, 12'              Outer ear
10     14                   Microphone
       16                   Sound signal
       18                   Signal processor
       20, 20'              Electrode array
       22                   Battery
15     24                   Electromagnetic coupling
       26                   Electronics
       28, 28'              Coil
       30                   Binaural implant
       32                   Ipsilateral side
20     34                   Contralateral side
       36                   Incision at vertex
       38                   Canal in the skin
       40                   Hearing aid user
       42                   Tool for making a canal
25     44                   Tube
       46                   Direction
       48                   Electrical wire
       50, 50'              Reinforcement fiber
       52                   Fixation member
30     54                   Protection member
       56                   Proximal end
       58                   Hole

                          32
   60      Multi-lumen tubing
   62      Wire
   64      Reinforcement fiber (stretchable)
   66      Opening
 5 68      Fixing structure
   70      Groove
   72      Protection layer
   74      Sheath (knitted)
   76      Mesh
10 78      Stop member
   80      Opening
   82      Rupture
   84      Ipsilateral electrode array
   84'     Controlateral electrode array
15 86      Protection assembly
   88      Vertical incision
   90, 90' Tunneling
   92      Tool
   94      Edge
20 96      Hole
   98      Suture
   100     Contralateral incision
   102     Attachment structure
   104     Implantable screw
25 106     Fixation member
   108     Receiving section
   D       Distance

                                            33
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A binaural cochlear implant system comprising:
   -       an implantable stimulator;
   -       an ipsilateral cochlear implant electrode array connected to the stimulator
 5         and
   -       a lead connected to the stimulator at a first end of the lead and provided
           with a contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array at a second
           end of the lead,
   the lead being configured to be implanted beneath the skin above the
10 skull of a hearing aid user, wherein the lead comprises at least one electrical wire
   connecting the contralateral binaural
   cochlear implant electrode array with the stimulator, and a
   reinforcement fiber running along length of the at least one
   electrical wire.
15
   2. The binaural cochlear implant system according to claim 1, further comprising a
   fixation member at the second end of the lead, the fixation member being config
   ured to allow through passage of the contralateral binaural cochlear implant elec
   trode array.
20
   3. The binaural cochlear implant system according to claim 2, wherein during in
   sertion of the contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array, further com
   prising a protection member, the protection member being configured to be remov
   ably attached to a distal end of the fixation member and to protectively surround
25 the contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array.
   4. The binaural cochlear implant system according to claim 3, wherein the protec
   tion member comprises a means such as arranged at a distal end of the protection
   member and configured to allow attaching a surgical tool configured to facilitate
30 passage of the contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array beneath the
   skin.
   5. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,

                                             34
   wherein the lead comprises a multi-lumen tubing provided with a plurality of sepa
   rated through-going canals configured to allow passage of the at least one electrical
   wire and the reinforcement fiber from the stimulator to at least to the fixation
   member.
 5
   6. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the lead comprises the reinforcement fiber and a secondary reinforcement
   fiber arranged within the lead, wherein the secondary reinforcement fiber is ar
   ranged to run along the length of the reinforcement fiber and to extend beyond the
10 fixation member.
   7. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the reinforcement fiber is stretchable along its length.
15 8. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the reinforcement fiber comprises a stretchable mesh structure or stretcha
   ble knitted sheath.
   9. The binaural cochlear implant system according to claim 6, wherein the second
20 ary reinforcement fiber comprises a stop member attached to a distal end of the
   secondary reinforcement fiber, the stop member being configured to cooperate with
   the fixation member in response to stretching of the reinforcement fiber.
   10. The binaural cochlear implant system according to claim 9, wherein the stop
25 member is configured to restrict further stretching of the reinforcement fiber
   through cooperation between the stop member and fixation member once the rein
   forcement fiber has been stretched by a predefined allowable length.
   11. The binaural cochlear implant system according to any of the preceding claims,
30 wherein the fixation member comprises an opening configured to provide access to
   the reinforcement fiber for allowing cutting the reinforcement fiber when the rein
   forcement fiber has been stretched by the predefined allowable length.

                                             35
   12. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the fixation member comprises a receiving section configured to receive
   an attachment structure that is configured to immovably attach the fixation member
   to skull bone of the user.
 5
   13. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the attachment structure is selected from a group consisting of a suture that
   is configured to affix with the skull bone and a strip comprising at least two holes
   configured to receive implantable screw that is fixable to skull bone of the user.
10
   14. The binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the protection member comprises:
   -       a lumen adapted to at least partially receive the fixation member and com
           pletely receive the contralateral binaural cochlear implant electrode array
15         and
   -       a groove adapted to receive a suture,
   wherein the suture is adapted to provide attachment between the protection to the
   fixation member.
20 15. A kit comprising a binaural cochlear implant system according to one of the
   preceding claims and one or more of the following:        protection member, suture,
   surgical tool, implantable screws, attachment structure.

                                                1/8
<removed-date>
                                          2
                                                8
<removed-apn>
                                                      10
                      12
                                                                 6
                   Fig. 1A                                           4
              16             2
                                 14      28                28       26
                                                24
              18
              22
                                                                     20
                                      Fig. 1B

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2/8

                                                                       3/8
<removed-date>
                   8
                                        48                                                             54
                                                        10                                 20
                                                                                                                56
<removed-apn>
                                                              50                          Fig. 3A             58
                                                                           52
                                   20
                                              30
                                                                  10
                                             60
                       Fig. 3B
                                                                                           50
                                                       62
                                                                  62
                                                                                                            Fig. 3E
                   62        Fig. 3C              60              50   Fig. 3D                   62
                                                                                                                      50
                              50                                   10 62             10
                        60                    10                                60        60
                                    60                       10
                                                       62                                                            60
              62                                                                      10
                                         10                                      50                                  50
                                                                                          62
                                              50
                                                       62
                   Fig. 3F                                   Fig. 3G                                  Fig. 3H

                                                                4/8
<removed-date>
                       8
                                         48              10     64                                54
                                                                                            20
                                                                                                             56
                                                                                   66
<removed-apn>
                                                                50          52                           58
                     Fig. 4A
                               20
                                               30
               Fig. 4B                         Fig. 4C                                  Fig. 4D
                               60                                     60 60                 50
                   62 62                 62         62                                            50
               50                                         50         10
                      50                 50
                               10                                                      62
                                                    10
                    Fig. 4E                               Fig. 4F                           Fig. 4G
                               60                                      10
                                    10                                                 10               60
                                                         62                                       50
              62                                                            60
                                         50                                        62
                                     50
                                                                            50
                                                50
                                                                                  50
              62

                         30
                                        48
                                                       10           5/8                             54
                                                                                           20
<removed-date>
                                                                          52
                                                                                                               56
                                                                 50                       Fig. 5A             58
                                   20
<removed-apn>
                   8
                                        10        52                                         54
                                                            68 68                   20
                                                                                                         56
                                  50
                             48
                                                                 72
                                                                                    Fig. 5B
                                                       70                                           58
                                              A
              Fig. 5C
                                                       54                                  Fig. 5D
                   52                                                                             54
                                                                               10
                                                                    68
                                                                          48
                                                                                                  70
              62                                            50
                                                                               50
                         70
                                  10                                Fig. 5E                       54
                        48                   50             52                       70

                                                                  6/8
<removed-date>
              62        Fig. 6A                          Fig. 6B                                Fig. 6C
                                             50                                      76
<removed-apn>
                                                            74                                   74
                              50             10                       76         52
                                                                                                        Fig. 6D
                              20                    10
               8
                                               30
                         10             60                 52
                                                   48                  60
                                                                                           48
                                                                                                      Fig. 6E
                                                                                                78
               50 10 50           60                            52          D
                                             48             80                             48
                                                                            60                         Fig. 6F
                                                                                                78
                   50         50                   82
                                                                 80
                         Fig. 6G                                      Fig. 6H
                                                                                       48
                          48

                                                              7/8
<removed-date>                                                                             86
                                                 90                 88                  88
              40                       40                                         90
                                                                         40
<removed-apn>
               8                        8                                     8
                   84                           84                                84
                   86                       86
                             Fig. 7A                      Fig. 7B                            Fig. 7C
                        86
                        88             40
              40                                     88                           40         88
                                       90                                100                                100
                                                                               86
               8                            8                                       8
                                       100
                   84                           84                                      84                  84
                             Fig. 7D                      Fig. 7E                                 Fig. 7F

                                                         <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                        92
                                                                     96
                                                                                Fig. 8C
                                                          98
                                        86         96
          96
Fig. 8B
 94
                                                                           92
                                                                                             8/8
               92
                                                   104
                               98 108                          108
                                                                     Fig. 8E
                    Fig. 8D                  102
                                                                     104
                              106                       106

