Abstract
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MODIFYING A MATERIAL
MOVEMENT PLAN
A system for moving material with a work implement includes an image display device, an
operator input device, and a position sensor. A controller is configured to determine a position of
a work surface at a work site, display a portion of the work site on the image display device
including an operational location at the work area, modify a position of the operational location
on the image display device with the operator input device to define a modified operational
location, generate a material movement plan based upon the position of the work surface and
modified operational location, and generate command instructions to move the machine
according to the material movement plan.

                       9/9
                   Start
         Set final design plane        5
                                         51
         Set characteristics of
        material movement plan
                                          52
              Set operating
      characteristics of machine
                                              53
  Determine position of work surface-
                           1               54
     Display work area including
          operational locations
                                     55
           Generate material
            movement plan
            +                               56
Generate commands to move machine
 according to material movement plan
                                57
                   Have            No
       any operational locations
              been moved
                          d
                en mYes
        7!
                FIG. 9

                                                  -1
Description
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MODIFYING A MATERIAL
MOVEMENT PLAN
Technical Field
[0001]     This disclosure relates generally to controlling a machine and, more particularly, to a
system and method for modifying a material movement plan in connection with an image display
device.
Background
[0002]     Machines such as dozers, motor graders, wheel loaders, excavators, etc., are used to
perform a variety of tasks. For example, these machines may be used to move material at a work
site. The machines may operate in an autonomous or semi-autonomous manner to perform these
tasks in response to commands generated as part of a work plan for the machines. The machines
may receive instructions in accordance with the work plan to perform operations including
digging, loosening, carrying, etc., different materials at the work site such as those related to
mining, earthmoving and other industrial activities.
[0003]     Autonomously operated machines may remain consistently productive without regard
to a human operator or environmental conditions. In addition, autonomous systems may permit
operation in environments that are unsuitable or undesirable for a human operator. Autonomous
or semi-autonomous systems may also compensate for inexperienced human operators as well as
inefficiencies associated with repetitive tasks.
[0004]     Material movement plans are often developed by a planning system or module. A
plurality of variables may be set or determined that affect the planning system and impact the
material movement plan. In some instances, an operator may desire to change the manner in
which a machine is operating at the work site.

                                                  -2
[0005]     U.S. Patent No. 8,639,393 discloses a machine for moving material including various
sensors and an offboard planner. The offboard planner may generate an excavation plan based
upon a characteristic of an intended work area, a characteristic of the machine, and a desired
change in the intended work area. The machine may be operated autonomously based upon input
from the sensors and the excavation plan.
[0006]     The foregoing background discussion is intended solely to aid the reader. It is not
intended to limit the innovations described herein, nor to limit or expand the prior art discussed.
Thus, the foregoing discussion should not be taken to indicate that any particular element of a
prior system is unsuitable for use with the innovations described herein, nor is it intended to
indicate that any element is essential in implementing the innovations described herein. The
implementations and application of the innovations described herein are defined by the appended
claims.
Summary
[0007]     In one aspect, a system is provided for moving material with a work implement on a
machine at a work site including an image display device, an operator input device, a position
sensor and a controller. The position sensor being configured to generate position signals
indicative of a position of a work surface at the work site. The controller being configured to
receive position signals from the position sensor, determine the position of the work surface
based upon the position signals, and display a portion of the work area on the image display
device including an operational location at the work site. The controller further being configured
to modify a position of the operational location on the image display device with the operator
input device to define a modified operational location, generate a material movement plan based
upon the position of the work surface and modified operational location, and generate command
instructions to move the machine according to the material movement plan.
[0008]     In another aspect, a controller-implemented method of moving material with a work
implement on a machine includes receiving position signals from a position sensor indicative of
a position of a work surface at a work site, determining the position of the work surface based

                                                   -3
upon the position signals, and displaying a portion of the work site on an image display device
including an operational location at the work site. The method further includes modifying a
position of the operational location on an image display device with an operator input device to
define a modified operational location, generating a material movement plan based upon the
position of the work surface and modified operational location, and generating command
instructions to move a machine according to the material movement plan.
[0009]     In still another aspect, a machine includes a prime mover, a work implement for
moving material at a work site, an image display device, an operator input device, and a position
sensor for generating position signals indicative of a position of a work surface at the work site.
A controller is configured to receive position signals from the position sensor, determine the
position of the work surface based upon the position signals, and display a portion of the work
area on the image display device including an operational location at the work site. The
controller further being configured to modify a position of the operational location on the image
display device with the operator input device to define a modified operational location, generate
a material movement plan based upon the position of the work surface and modified operational
location, and generate command instructions to move the machine according to the material
movement plan.
Brief Description of the Drawings
                 Fig. 1 depicts a diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of a work site with upper
and lower layers of material illustrated;
                 Fig. 2 depicts a diagrammatic illustration of a machine in accordance with the
disclosure;
                 Fig. 3 depicts a schematic illustration of a portion of a remote control unit in
accordance with the disclosure;
                 Fig. 4 depicts a schematic illustration of a wireless communications system in
accordance with the disclosure;
                 Fig. 5 depicts a top view of the portion of the work site of Fig. 1;
                 Fig. 6 depicts an enlarged diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of a work site
illustrating a plurality of cutting operations;

                                                     -4
                 Fig. 7 depicts an enlarged diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of the work site
of Fig. 1 illustrating the result of a plurality of tip head operations;
                 Fig. 8 depicts an enlarged diagrammatic cross-section of a portion of the work site
of Fig. 1 illustrating the result of a plurality of backstacking operations; and
                 Fig. 9 depicts a flowchart illustrating a material moving process in accordance
with the disclosure.
Detailed Description
[0010]      Fig. 1 depicts a diagrammatic illustration of a portion 101 of a work site 100 which one
or more machines may operate in an autonomous, a semi-autonomous, or a manual manner.
Work site 100 is depicted as a mining site with lower layer 102 of material to be mined such as
coal and an upper layer 105 of material such as overburden or topsoil that covers the lower layer.
At some work sites 100, the overburden is removed from above a portion of the lower layer 102
of material at a first work area 110 and moved to a second work area 111. The exposed lower
layer 102 of material is then removed and transported to a desired location at a remote site. The
removal of the lower layer 102 of material creates an open area or void 112 into which
overburden from a new or adjacent section of the upper layer 105 may be moved to expose
another or adjacent portion of the lower layer. The process may be repeated about the work site
100 until the entire lower layer 102 of material is removed.
[0011]      In some instances, the process of movement of the overburden may begin by moving a
portion of the overburden into the void 112 adjacent the lower layer 102 such as with explosives.
As depicted in Fig. 1, a portion of the upper layer 105 has been moved or displaced into the void
112 (to the right of the edge 103 of the lower layer 102 in Fig. 1). The area from which the
overburden has been removed is indicated generally at 113 and the overburden moved into the
void 112 is indicated at 114.
[0012]      As a result of the movement of the overburden, by explosives and/or otherwise, the
void 112 may have a shape as generally depicted in Fig. 1 with a first sloped surface 115 that
slopes downward from generally adjacent the edge 103 of the lower layer 102 and a second
sloped surface formed during a previous material movement process that extends upward from
the first sloped surface. The second sloped surface may extend upward any desired distance and

                                                  -5
may be referred to as a low wall 116. In some instances, the upper end of the low wall 116 may
be approximately at the same height as the upper surface of the lower layer 102. The remaining
space of the void 112 is thus defined by the first sloped surface 115 and the low wall 116.
[0013]     In instances in which machines such as a rope shovel (not shown) are not available,
other machines 10 such as dozers may be used to move the overburden above the lower layer
102 to expose the lower layer for subsequent mining. To do so, the machines 10 may move the
overburden into and above the void 112 by moving a series of relatively small layers or sections
of material into the open area.
[0014]     As used herein, a layer may refer to a layer or a section of material having a uniform or
non-uniform (e.g., triangular) thickness or cross-section. For example, as depicted in Fig. 1, the
remaining portion of the upper layer 105 of overburden to be removed is divided into a series of
relatively smaller layers 120-125. Each smaller layer 120-125 may be moved from its position
above the lower layer 102 to a position in or above the void 112 by utilizing the dozers to
perform a series of material moving operations during which the overburden is moved from the
first work area 110 to the second work area 111 to eventually expose the lower layer 102. In
some instances, it may be desirable to leave a small amount of overburden on the lower layer
102 of material. Although depicted with six smaller layers 120-125, the upper layer 105 may be
divided into any desired number of smaller layers. The number and position of the smaller layers
may be determined by a planning system 48 described below or in any other manner.
[0015]     Fig. 2 depicts a diagrammatic illustration of a machine 10 such as a dozer with a work
implement such as a blade 16 configured to push material. The machine 10 includes a frame 12
and a prime mover such as an engine 13. A ground-engaging drive mechanism such as a track 15
may be driven by a drive sprocket 14 on opposite sides of machine 10 to propel the machine.
Engine 13 and a transmission (not shown) are operatively connected to the drive sprockets 14,
which drive tracks 15. The systems and methods of the disclosure may be used with any machine
propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms applicable in the art for causing movement of the machine
including hydrostatic, electric, or mechanical drives.

                                                 -6
 [0016]     Blade 16 may be pivotably connected to frame 12 by arms 18 on each side of machine
 10. First hydraulic cylinder 21 coupled to frame 12 supports blade 16 in the vertical direction and
allows blade 16 to move up or down vertically from the point of view of Fig. 2. Second
hydraulic cylinders 22 on each side of machine 10 allow the pitch angle of blade tip to change
relative to a centerline of the machine.
 [0017]     Machine 10 may include a cab 24 that an operator may physically occupy and provide
input to control the machine. Cab 24 may include one or more operator input devices such as
joystick 25 through which the operator may issue commands to control the propulsion system
and steering system of the machine as well as operate various implements associated with the
machine.
 [0018]     Machine 10 may be controlled by a control system 45 as shown generally by an arrow
in Fig. 2 indicating association with the machine 10. The control system 45 may include an
electronic control module or controller 46 and a plurality of sensors. The controller 46 may
receive input signals from an operator operating the machine 10 from within cab 24 or off-board
the machine through a wireless communications system 201. The controller 46 may control the
operation of various aspects of the machine 10 including the drivetrain and the hydraulic
systems.
 [0019]     The controller 46 may be an electronic controller that operates in a logical fashion to
perform operations, execute control algorithms, store and retrieve data and other desired
operations. The controller 46 may include or access memory, secondary storage devices,
processors, and any other components for running an application. The memory and secondary
storage devices may be in the form of read-only memory (ROM) or random access memory
(RAM) or integrated circuitry that is accessible by the controller. Various other circuits may be
associated with the controller 46 such as power supply circuitry, signal conditioning circuitry,
driver circuitry, and other types of circuitry.

                                                 -7
[0020]     The controller 46 may be a single controller or may include more than one controller
disposed to control various functions and/or features of the machine 10. The term "controller" is
meant to be used in its broadest sense to include one or more controllers and/or microprocessors
that may be associated with the machine 10 and that may cooperate in controlling various
functions and operations of the machine. The functionality of the controller 46 may be
implemented in hardware and/or software without regard to the functionality. The controller 46
may rely on one or more data maps relating to the operating conditions and the operating
environment of the machine 10 and the work site 100 that may be stored in the memory
associated with the controller. Each of these data maps may include a collection of data in the
form of tables, graphs, and/or equations.
[0021]     The control system 45 and the controller 46 may be located on the machine 10 and may
also include components located remotely from the machine such as at a command center 200 or
at a remote control unit 250 (Fig. 3). The functionality of control system 45 may be distributed
so that certain functions are performed at machine 10 and other functions are performed
remotely. In such case, the control system 45 may include a communications system such as
wireless communications system 201 for transmitting signals between the machine 10 and a
system located remote from the machine. In one embodiment, the remote control unit 250
positioned remote from the machine 10 may provide some or all of the specific commands that
are then transmitted by the wireless communications system 201 to systems of the machine.
[0022]     Machine 10 may be configured to be operated autonomously, semi-autonomously, or
manually. When operating semi-autonomously or manually, the machine 10 may be operated by
remote control and/or by an operator physically located within the cab 24.
[0023]     When operating the machine 10 via a remote control system, a portion of the control
system 45 may be located at the remote control unit 250. Accordingly, machine 10 may include a
machine controller 47 and remote control unit 250 may include a remote unit controller 251 (Fig.
4). The machine controller 47 and the remote unit controller 251 may be components of
controller 46.

                                                  -8
[0024]     Referring to Fig. 3, in one example, the remote control unit 250 may be configured
with an instrument array 252 and controls similar to that of the machine 10 with a plurality of
gauges 253, image display devices 254, and operator input devices such as buttons 255, knobs
256, dials 257, levers such as joysticks 258, and other controls. Signals from the various sensors
on the machine 10 may be transmitted directly or indirectly to the remote control unit 250 and
displayed on the instrument array. If desired, the remote control unit 250 may be configured in a
manner similar to the actual cab 24 of the machine 10.
[0025]     When operating machine 10 by remote control, the machine 10 and the remote control
unit 250 may communicate via the wireless communications system 201. Each of the machine 10
and the remote control unit 250 may include wireless communication devices to permit wireless
transmission of a plurality of data signals between the machine and the remote control unit as
well as permit communication with other systems remote from the machine and the remote
control unit.
[0026]     As depicted in Fig. 4, machine 10 may include machine transmitter 210 and a machine
receiver 211. The remote control unit 250 may include a remote control transmitter 260 and a
remote control receiver 261. The transmitters and receivers may be a portion of the respective
machine controller 47 and the remote unit controller 251, if desired. In operation, signals
transmitted by the remote control unit 250 may be generated by the remote unit controller 251
and then transmitted by the remote control transmitter 260 to the machine receiver 211 and then
processed by machine controller 47. Signals transmitted from the machine 10 to the remote
control unit 250 may be generated by the machine controller 47 and then transmitted by the
machine transmitter 210 to the remote control receiver 261 and then processed by remote unit
controller 251.
[0027]     Machine 10 may be equipped with a plurality of machine sensors that provide data
indicative (directly or indirectly) of various operating parameters of the machine and/or the
operating environment in which the machine is operating. The term "sensor" is meant to be used
in its broadest sense to include one or more sensors and related components that may be
associated with the machine 10 and that may cooperate to sense various functions, operations,

                                                    -9
and operating characteristics of the machine and/or aspects of the environment in which the
machine is operating.
[0028]      A position sensing system 27, as shown generally by an arrow in Fig. 2 indicating
association with the machine 10, may include a position sensor 28, also shown generally by an
arrow in Fig. 2 to indicate association with the machine, to sense the position and orientation
(i.e., the heading, pitch, roll or tilt, and yaw) of the machine relative to the work site 100. The
position sensor 28 may include a plurality of individual sensors that cooperate to generate and
provide position signals to controller 46 indicative of the position and orientation of the machine
10. In one example, the position sensor 28 may include one or more sensors that interact with a
positioning system such as a global navigation satellite system or a global positioning system to
operate as a position sensor. In another example, the position sensor 28 may further include a
slope or inclination sensor such as pitch angle sensor for measuring the slope or inclination of
the machine 10 relative to a ground or earth reference. The controller 46 may use position signals
from the position sensors 28 to determine the position of the machine 10 within work site 100. In
other examples, the position sensor 28 may include a perception based system, or may use other
systems such as lasers, sonar, or radar to determine all or some aspects of the position of
machine 10.
[0029]      The position sensing system 27 may also be used to determine a ground speed of
machine 10. Other sensors or a dedicated ground speed sensor may alternatively be used to
determine the ground speed of the machine 10. In addition, the position sensing system 27 may
also be used to determine the position of the work surface upon which the machine 10 is moving.
More specifically, based upon known dimensions of the machine 10 and the position of the
machine at the work site 100, the position of the work surface may also be determined. As a
result, the position sensing system 27 may operate as either or both of a machine position sensing
system and a work surface position sensing system. Similarly, the position sensor 28 may
operate as either or both of a machine position sensor and a work surface position sensor. Other
sensors or a dedicated work surface position sensor may alternatively be used to determine the
position of the work surface.

                                                 -10
[0030]     Sensors may be provided to monitor the operating conditions of the engine 13 and
drivetrain such as an engine speed sensor 29 and a torque converter speed sensor 30. Other
sensors necessary or desirable for operating the machine 10 may be provided.
[0031]     The control system 45 may include an additional system such as a change in terrain
detection system 31 shown generally by an arrow in Fig. 2 indicating association with the
machine 10. One type of change in terrain detection system 31 that may be used to sense a crest
at the work site 100 may be an implement load monitoring system 32 shown generally by an
arrow in Fig. 2. The implement load monitoring system 32 may include any of a variety of
different types of implement load sensors depicted generally by an arrow in Fig. 2 as an
implement load sensor system 33 to measure the load on the ground engaging work implement
or blade 16. For example, as blade 16 of machine 10 moves material over a crest, the load on the
blade will be reduced. Accordingly, the implement load sensor system 33 may be utilized to
measure or monitor the load on the blade 16 and a decrease in load may be registered by the
controller 46 as a change in terrain due to the machine 10 being adjacent the crest. In other
instances, an increase in load may indicate an incline or the machine 10 encountering a pile of
material. In other words, the controller 46 may determine a change in terrain based at least in
part upon a change in the load on blade 16.
[0032]     In one embodiment, the implement load sensor system 33 may embody one or more
pressure sensors 34 for use with one or more hydraulic cylinders, such as second hydraulic
cylinders 22, associated with blade 16. Signals from the pressure sensor 34 indicative of the
pressure within the second hydraulic cylinders 22 may be monitored by controller 46. Upon
receipt of a signal indicating a substantial reduction in pressure within the second hydraulic
cylinders 22, the controller 46 may determine that the load on blade 16 has been substantially
reduced due to the material having been pushed over a crest. Other manners of determining a
reduction in cylinder pressure associated with a reduction in the load on blade 16 are
contemplated, including other manners of measuring the pressure within second hydraulic
cylinders 22 and measuring the pressure within other cylinders associated with the blade. An
increase in pressure indicative of an increase in load may be determined in a similar manner.

                                                 -11
[0033]     In another embodiment, the implement load sensor system 33 may embody sensors for
measuring a difference between output from the engine 13 and the output from a torque
converter (not shown). More specifically, the engine speed sensor 29 may be utilized to generate
a signal indicative of the speed or output of the engine 13 and the torque converter speed sensor
30 may be utilized to monitor the output speed of the torque converter. During an operation such
as moving material with blade 16, the engine output speed indicated by engine speed sensor 29
and the torque converter output speed indicated by torque converter speed sensor 30 may be
relatively constant. Upon moving material over a crest with blade 16, the load on the blade will
be substantially reduced and thus cause a change in the relative speeds between the engine 13
and the torque converter. Similarly, an opposite change in relative speeds may also be used to
determine an incline. Accordingly, by monitoring the difference between the engine speed and
the torque converter speed, changes in incline may be determined.
[0034]     Other manners of measuring differences between prime mover output and other
components within the propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms that are reflective of a change in
load on the implement are also contemplated. Still further, in alternate embodiments in which the
machine propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms are hydrostatic or electric, the implement load
sensor system may embody other sensors that detect a difference between output from the prime
mover and other aspects of the propulsion and drivetrain mechanisms that may be used by the
controller 46 to detect a change in load on the blade 16.
[0035]     In still another embodiment, implement load sensor system 33 may embody an
acceleration sensor such as a three-axis accelerometer 35 for providing an acceleration signal
indicative of the acceleration of the machine 10. Upon moving a load of material past a crest, the
machine 10 may accelerate due to the reduction in load on the blade 16. Similarly, deceleration
of the machine 10 may indicate that the machine 10 has encountered an incline. Controller 46
may utilize acceleration of the machine 10 to determine a change in terrain.
[0036]     In addition to the implement load monitoring systems 32 described above, other
change in terrain detection systems may be used either alone or in combination with more than
one change in terrain detection system. For example, a change in terrain detection system may

                                                  -12
use other sensors as a change in terrain sensor for determining a change in terrain. In one
example, a pitch angle, as indicated by a pitch angle sensor 36, that exceeds a threshold pitch
angle or is outside of an expected range of pitch angles may indicate that the machine 10 is
adjacent a crest or an incline. In another example, a change in pitch rate as indicated by a pitch
rate sensor 37 that exceeds a threshold rate may indicate that the machine 10 is adjacent a crest
or an incline.
[0037]     Still further, additional systems and sensors may be used to determine a change in
terrain or proximity of machine 10 to a crest or an incline. For example, a perception system 38
may also be used to detect the physical location of a crest or an incline. The perception system
38 may be mounted on or associated with the machine, as shown generally by an arrow in Fig. 2
indicating association with the machine. The perception system 38 may include one or more
systems such as a radar system, a SONAR system, a LIDAR system, a camera vision system,
and/or any other desired system that operate with associated perception sensors 39. Perception
sensors 39 may generate data that is received by the controller 46 and used by the controller to
determine the position of the work surface upon which the machine 10 is operating including the
presence and position of obstacles within the range of the sensors. If desired, the perception
system 38 may be used to generate an electronic map and/or images of the environment around
machine 10 and the environment analyzed for changes in terrain.
[0038]     In addition or the alternative, the perception system 38 may include one or more
perception sensors 39 movably associated with the machine 10 such as sensors mounted on a
mobile machine or device including a drone or unmanned aerial vehicle (not shown).
[0039]     Machine 10 may incorporate any or all of the change in terrain detection systems
disclosed herein and may incorporate other systems that perform similar functions, if desired.
[0040]     Machine 10 may be configured to move material at the work site 100 according to one
or more material movement plans along a path from an initial location such as the first work area
110 to a spread or dump location such as the second work area 111. The material movement

                                                 -13
plans may include, among other things, forming a plurality of spaced apart channels or slots 117
(Fig. 5) that are cut into the work surface to assist in moving material from the initial location to
the spread or dump location by using a plurality of cut and carry operations.
[0041]     Each slot 117 may be formed by initially setting the desired parameters of the final
work surface or final design plane such as the upper surface of the lower layer 102. Referring to
Fig. 6, material may be removed from the work surface 118 in one or more layers or passes (e.g.,
smaller layers 120-125) until the final design plane is reached. While the illustration is depicted
in two dimensions, it should be appreciated that the data representing the illustration may be in
three dimensions. The blade 16 of machine 10 may engage the work surface 118 with a series of
cuts 126 that are spaced apart lengthwise along the slot 117. Each cut 126 begins at a cut location
127 along the work surface 118 wherein the blade 16 initially engages the work surface and is
loaded with material as the blade moves towards the pass target or carry surface 128 for a
particular pass. In other words, when cutting smaller layer 121, the blade 16 begins at the upper
surface of the layer 121 and cuts through the layer until reaching the next vertically sequential
smaller layer 122. Controller 46 may be configured to guide the blade 16 along each cut 126
until reaching the carry surface 128 and then follow the carry surface towards the second work
area 111.
[0042]     The shape of the cut 126 or loading profile may have any configuration and, depending
on various factors including the configuration of the work surface 118 and the type of material to
be moved, some cut profiles may be more efficient than others. The loading profile may be
formed of one or more segments that are equal or unequal in length and with each having
different or identical shapes. These shapes may be linear, symmetrically or asymmetrically
curved, Gaussian-shaped or any other desired shape. In addition, the angle of any of the shapes
relative to the work surface 118 or the final design plane may change from segment to segment.
[0043]     The shape of the carry surface 128 or carry profile may have any configuration but is
often generally linear and sloped downward so that movement of material will be assisted by
gravity to increase the efficiency of the material moving process. In other words, the carry
profile is often configured so that it slopes downward towards the second work area 111.

                                                  -14
[0044]    When operating autonomously or semi-autonomously, the controller 46 may be
configured to guide the machine 10 to execute each cut operation and carry the material along
the carry surface to the second work area 111.
[0045]    Referring to Fig. 7, a first process for spreading or dumping material at the second
work area 111 involves pushing the material or overburden along the work surface 118 until
reaching a downward slope or crest 131. Upon reaching the crest 131, the overburden will fall
down the slope along the crest. The process of dumping material over a crest 131 and allowing
the material to fall at the angle of repose due to gravity may sometimes be referred to as tip head
dumping. In Fig. 7, examples of material dumped by a plurality of tip head dumping cycles are
depicted schematically at 132.
[0046]    As the material being pushed by machine 10 falls downward due to gravity, the load on
the machine 10 and blade 16 will decrease. The change in terrain detection system 31 may utilize
the implement load monitoring system 32 or any other system such as a perception system 38 to
generate change in terrain signals that indicate a change in terrain adjacent machine 10. Upon the
change in terrain exceeding a change in terrain threshold, the controller 46 may generate
command signals to move the machine 10 in reverse. The machine 10 may then be operated in
reverse to back up along the path of operation until reaching the next cut location and the next
sequential material moving operation performed.
[0047]    In some embodiments, the machine 10 may utilize the position sensing system 27 in
conjunction with one or more crest detection systems. A crest zone 133 may be set that extends
rearwardly a predetermined distance (e.g., 20-30 feet) from an estimated location of the crest 131
to a beginning location 134 of the crest zone. The controller 46 may utilize a first set of data in
connection with the crest detection system when outside or spaced from the crest zone 133 and a
second set of data when the machine 10 is operating within the crest zone. For example, when
operating at a location spaced from the crest zone 133, the machine 10 is at a lower risk so
greater changes in terrain may be tolerated or permitted. In other words, in view of the
significant risk when operating near the crest 131, the sensitivities or responsiveness of the crest
detection systems may be increased when operating within the crest zone 133 so that the

                                                 -15
controller 46 is more likely to stop or reverse the machine 10 if a significant change in terrain is
detected.
[0048]     Referring to Fig. 8, a second process for spreading or dumping material involves
pushing the material or overburden along the work surface until reaching a desired end of travel
location. Upon reaching the desired end location or distal end dump location 135, the machine 10
is operated in reverse which leaves a pile 136 of material on the work surface along which the
machine is operating. The machine 10 is moved in reverse along the path of operation until
reaching the next cut location and the next sequential material moving operation is performed.
Upon reaching the location of the last pile 136 of material in the current layer of material (i.e.,
the proximal end dump location 137), a new layer of material may be formed by moving the
machine 10 to the distal end dump location of the next sequential layer of material.
[0049]     In one embodiment, subsequent end of travel locations within a layer may be identified
when the material being pushed by blade 16 engages the previously deposited pile 136 of
material. Systems such as those used to monitor a change in terrain may detect when the material
being pushed engages a previous pile 136 of material. More specifically, engagement or
interaction of material being pushed with a previous pile 136 of material may be monitored by a
change in load on the machine 10 and/or blade 16, deceleration of the machine, and/or a change
in pitch angle of the machine. Other systems such the perception system 38 may be used in
addition or instead.
[0050]     In another embodiment, a planning system 48 of the control system 45 may calculate
or determine a plurality of end locations at which the machine 10 should cease forward
movement and back up. The end locations may be determined so that the machine 10 leaves the
piles 136 of material in the desired location upon generating a reversing command or
instructions.
[0051]     Upon reaching a desired position at which the layer of material should end, a new layer
(indicated in dashed line at 138) of piles 136 of material may be begun and the process repeated.

                                                 -16
In some instances, the machine 10 may be used to smooth the surface of the piles 136 of material
to create a generally uniform surface prior to beginning a new layer of piles. The process of
reversing the machine 10 to form layers of material by leaving sequential piles 136 of material as
described above may sometimes be referred to as backstacking.
[0052]     Each of the processes for cutting, carrying, and spreading or dumping the material may
be performed autonomously, semi-autonomously, or manually, if desired. Other manners of
spreading or dumping material at the second work area 111 are contemplated.
[0053]     Control system 45 may include a module or planning system 48 for determining or
planning various aspects of a material moving plan. The planning system 48 may determine the
depth and location of each of the layers 120-125. In addition, the planning system 48 may
determine the sequential cut locations 127 along each layer as well as the shape of the cuts 126
or loading profile through each layer. The planning system 48 may also be operative to plan
other aspects of the material moving plan. For example, the planning system 48 may also
determine the end locations for the piles 136 of material during a backstacking process. The
planning system 48 may receive and store the characteristics of the material to be moved (e.g.,
density, moisture content, compactability, angle of repose) that may be used in the planning
process.
[0054]     During the operation of the machine 10 and/or the planning system 48, the controller
46 may generate commands to display various aspects of the work site 100 on one of the image
display devices 254. The aspects of the work site 100 may be displayed as a side view or a view
of portions of the work site 100 including the path of the machine 10. Figs. 1 and 6-8 depict
examples of such side views. Fig. 5 depicts an example of such a top view.
[0055]     The side views of the work site 100 define a plurality of operational location along the
work site. As used herein, an operational location is a location such as a point, at, above, or
below the path 129 (Fig. 1) along which the machine 10 may operate, or is a location that may be
used by the planning system 48 to define a location at, above, or below the path. It should be

                                                 -17
noted that, as stated above, the depicted views are in two dimensions, the data representing the
depicted views may be in three dimensions. Accordingly, a point as depicted in a side view may
correspond to a line that extends across the path 129 at the designated point.
[0056]     For example, at the first work area 110, the location of a cut location 127 may be an
operational location. The shape of the cut 126 or loading profile, the shape and location of the
smaller layers 120-125, the shape and location of the final design plane, and the shape and
location of high wall 119 (Fig. 1), may all be defined by two or more operational locations. In
other words, two or more operational locations may define a line at the work site 100 and the
two-dimensional line depicted in a side view may correspond to a three-dimensional plane or
surface.
[0057]     At the second work area 111, when performing a tip head material movement operation
at the second work area 111, the location of the crest 131 and the beginning location 134 of the
crest zone 133 may each be an operational location. When performing a backstacking operation
at the second work area 111, the initial end of travel location for a backstacking layer or distal
end dump location 135, the location of a previous pile 136 of material in a backstacking
operation, and the last end of travel location for a backstacking layer or proximal end dump
location 137 may each be an operational location. In addition, two or more operational locations
may define the shape and location of the low wall 116. Other operational locations at both the
first work area 110 and the second work area 111 are contemplated.
[0058]     The control system 45 and planning system 48 may be configured to permit an operator
or other personnel to modify or move one or more of the operational locations depicted on one of
the image display devices 254 to define a modified operational location. In one embodiment, an
operational location may be modified or moved with a "drag and drop" operation. In another
embodiment, an operational location may be modified or moved by initially selecting the
operational location using an operator input device, moving the operational location with another
operator input device to a desired location, and selecting the new operational location with an
operator input device. Other manners of moving the operational locations as depicted on the
image display device 254 are contemplated.

                                                 -18
[0059]     Upon changing one or more operational locations, the planning system 48 may be
configured to generate new or modified material movement plan based upon the position of the
work surface and the new position of the operational location or locations. Accordingly, the
planning system 48 may generate an initial material movement plan based upon the position of
the work surface and various operational settings. Upon moving an operational location to define
a modified operational location, the planning system 48 may generate a new material movement
plan based upon the position of the work surface and the modified operational location.
[0060]     In one example, an operator or other personnel may change the position of one or more
operational locations to change the position of a cut location 127 the shape of a cut or loading
profile, the shape and location of the smaller layers 120-125, the shape and location of the final
design plane, or the shape and location of high wall 119. Modifying or moving the position of
one or more operational locations at the first work area may modify the manner in which the
machine 10 operates to move material at the first work area 110.
[0061]     In another example, when using a tip head dumping operation, an operator or other
personnel may change the position of an operational location to change the beginning location of
the crest zone 133. In still another example, a similar result may be achieved by modifying an
estimated location of the crest 131. It may be desirable to move the estimated location of the
crest 131 as the void 112 at the second work area 111 is filled in to increase the likelihood that
the machine 10 will not reverse before reaching the crest 131. In some instances, an operator or
other personnel may determine that a portion of the crest 131 has collapsed and thus it is
desirable to move the estimated location of the crest rearward or towards the first work area 110.
[0062]     In still another example, when using a backstacking operation, an operator or other
personnel may change the position of an operational location to move the initial position or distal
end dump location for a backstacking operation or the end position or proximal end dump
location for a backstacking operation. By doing so, the starting location, the ending location,
and/or the configuration of the backstacking layer may be modified.

                                                  -19
Industrial Applicability
[0063]     The industrial applicability of the system described herein will be readily appreciated
from the forgoing discussion. The foregoing discussion is applicable to systems in which a
plurality of machines 10 are operated autonomously, semi-autonomously, or manually at a work
site 100 where it is desirable to move material from a first work area 110 to a second work area
111. Such systems may be used at a mining site, a landfill, a quarry, or any other area in such
movement of material is desired.
[0064]     Fig. 9 depicts a flow chart of an example of a material moving operation in which
overburden is moved from the first work area 110 to the second work area 111. At stage 50, the
final design plane may be set or stored by controller 46. In some instances, the final design plane
may correspond to the upper surface of the lower layer 102 of material. The characteristics of the
material movement plan may be set or stored by controller 46 at stage 51. The characteristics
may include parameters of the slot 117, the shape or possible shapes of each cut 126 or loading
profile, the size of the crest zone 133 when using a tip head material movement operation, details
of the proximal and distal end dump locations when using a backstacking material movement
operation, as well as characteristics of the material to be moved.
[0065]     The characteristics of the machine 10 may be set or stored at stage 52 by the controller
46. The characteristics of the machine 10 may include the dimensions, maximum and desired
operating ranges and capabilities, as well as fuel consumption rates. At stage 53, the position or
topography of the work surface may be determined. In some instances, the position of the work
surface 118 may only be determined at the first work area 110. In other instances, the position of
the work surface at the second work area 111 may also be determined. In one embodiment, a
machine 10 such as the dozer including the position sensing system 27 and/or a perception
system 38 may traverse the work surface. In another embodiment, the position of the work
surface may be determined by position sensors operatively associated with a remote machine or
device such as a drone or unmanned aerial vehicle.

                                                -20
[0066]    The controller 46 may generate at stage 54 commands to display portions of the work
site 100 on an image display device. The displayed portion of the work site may include a side
view and/or a top view of the path along which the machine 10 may be moving. The side view
and/or top view may include one or more operational locations at, above, or below the path along
which the machine 10 may operate, or that may be used by the planning system 48 to define a
location at, above, or below the path.
[0067]    At stage 55, the controller 46 may generate a material movement plan based upon the
position or topography of the work surface and one or more of the operational locations. The
controller 46 may generate at stage 56 commands to move the machine according to the material
movement plan to move material from the first work area 110 to the second work area 111.
[0068]    The controller may determine at decision stage 57 whether any operational locations
have been moved on the image display device by an operator or other personnel. If none of the
operational locations have been moved, operation of the machine 10 to continue to perform the
material movement operations may be continued and stages 56-57 repeated. If an operational
location has been moved, stages 55-57 may be repeated. In doing so, the controller 46 may
generate a new or modified material movement plan based upon the location of the work surface
and one or more of the operational locations including the modified operational location. It
should be noted that in some instances, the modified operational location may not affect certain
aspects of the material movement plan. In other words, in some instances, the new material
movement plan may be identical to the previous or initial material movement plan.
[0069]    Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand
method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range, unless otherwise
indicated herein, and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were
individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order
unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

                                               -21
[0070]    Accordingly, this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject
matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover, any
combination of the above-described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed
by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

                                                 -22
Claims
1.      A system for moving material with a work implement on a machine at a work site,
comprising:
                an image display device;
                an operator input device; and
                a position sensor for generating position signals indicative of a position of a work
surface at the work site; and
                a controller configured to:
                        receive position signals from the position sensor;
                        determine the position of the work surface based upon the position signals;
                        display a portion of the work area on the image display device including
        an operational location at the work site;
                        modify a position of the operational location on the image display device
        with the operator input device to define a modified operational location;
                        generate a material movement plan based upon the position of the work
        surface and modified operational location; and
                        generate command instructions to move the machine according to the
        material movement plan.
2.      The system of claim 1, further including, prior to modifying the operational location, the
controller being configured to generate an initial material movement plan based upon the
position of the work surface and the operational location; and generate command instructions to
move the machine according to the initial material movement plan.
3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to store a
configuration of a final design plane and generate the material movement plan based upon a
configuration of the final design plane.
4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to modify the position
of the operational location on the image display device with the operator input device using a
drag and drop process.

                                                  -23
5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the modified operational location is an estimated location
of a crest along a path of the machine associated with a tip head material movement operation.
6.      The system of claim 5, wherein modifying the operational location includes extending the
path adjacent the crest.
7.      The system of claim 5, wherein modifying the operational location includes reducing a
length of the path adjacent the crest.
8.      The system of claim 1, further comprising a crest detection system, the modified
operational location is a beginning location of a crest zone, and the controller is configured to
store a first set of data in connection with the crest detection system when spaced from the crest
zone and a second set of data when operating within the crest zone.
9.      The system of claim 1, wherein the modified operational location is a dump location
along a path of the machine associated with a backstacking material movement operation.
10.     The system of claim 9, wherein the dump location is a distal end dump location.
11.     The system of claim 9, wherein the dump location is a proximal end dump location.
12.     The system of claim 1, wherein the modified operational location is indicative of an
estimated position of a low wall.
13.     The system of claim 12, wherein the estimated position of the low wall is indicated by a
plurality of modified operational locations.

                                                 -24
14.      The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to modify a position
of two operational locations on the image display device with the operator input device to define
two modified operational locations, the two modified operational locations defining a plane.
15.      A controller-implemented method of moving material with a work implement on a
machine, comprising:
                 receiving position signals from a position sensor indicative of a position of a work
surface at a work site;
                 determining the position of the work surface based upon the position signals;
                 displaying a portion of the work site on an image display device including an
operational location at the work site;
                 modifying a position of the operational location on an image display device with
an operator input device to define a modified operational location;
                 generating a material movement plan based upon the position of the work surface
and modified operational location; and
                 generating command instructions to move a machine according to the material
movement plan.
16.      The method of claim 15, further including, prior to modifying the operational location,
generating an initial material movement plan based upon the position of the work surface and the
operational location; and generating command instructions to move the machine according to the
initial material movement plan.
17.      The method of claim 15, further including modifying the position of the operational
location on the image display device with the operator input device using a drag and drop
process.
18.      The method of claim 15, wherein the modified operational location is a dump location
along a path of the machine associated with a backstacking material movement operation.

                                                 -25
19.     The method of claim 15, further including modifying a position of two operational
locations on the image display device with the operator input device to define two modified
operational locations, the two modified operational locations defining a plane.
20.     A machine comprising:
                a prime mover;
                a work implement for moving material at a work site;
                an image display device;
                an operator input device;
                a position sensor for generating position signals indicative of a position of a work
surface at the work site; and
                a controller configured to:
                        receive position signals from the position sensor;
                        determine the position of the work surface based upon the position signals;
                display a portion of the work area on the image display device including an
        operational location at the work site;
                        modify a position of the operational location on the image display device
        with the operator input device to define a modified operational location;
                        generate a material movement plan based upon the position of the work
        surface and modified operational location; and
                        generate command instructions to move the machine according to the
        material movement plan.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1868
                           1/9

                                                         <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                            38
                                                                                200
                                                    201                                          16-1868
                 27
                                        39           10
               36
                           24
          37
     45
48
                                               29   13         21        33 32 31
                      28
               46          25           30
            47
            35
           12                                                                   16
                                                                                           2/9
                                                    34
                                 14
                                                          18        22
     118 15                           FIG. 2

              16-1868
                                           3/9
<removed-date>
                              254
                252
<removed-apn>
                        256         257
                                                         253
                                            254
                255
                254
                                                   258
                                258
                              250
                                          FIG. 3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1868
                           4/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1868
                           5/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1868
                           6/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1868
                           7/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 16-1868
                           8/9

              16-1868
                           9/9
<removed-date>
                                       50
<removed-apn>
                                           51
                                           52
                                                 53
                                            54
                                      55
                                            56
                                 57
                        FIG. 9

