                                                     17
  Abstract
  The present device relates to a device for specifying the power of an electric drive of a boat,
  comprising a hand-actuatable drive which can be positioned between a zero setting in which the
  electric drive is stationary and a maximum setting in which the electric drive is operated at its
5 nominal power, wherein a hand-actuatable overload switching device is provided, on actuation of
  which the electric drive is operated in an overload operation.

            1/5
                     1
22       20
                2
      40          25
    603
  6
 29
                       7

                                                          1
                    Device for specifying the drive level of an electric drive of a boat
 5 Technical Field
   The present invention relates to a device for specifying the drive level of an electric drive of a boat.
   Background of the invention
   It is known to drive boats with an electric motor. It is also known to control the drive level of the
   electric motor by means of a device for specifying the drive level wherein the specification of the
 o drive level is implemented, for example, by means of the specification of the power and/or the
   torque and/or the rotary speed of the electric motor. In order to specify the drive level by means of
   the operator, in principle, two different possibilities are known:
   With a boat drive constructed as an outboard motor with an electric motor, it is known to specify the
   drive level of the electric motor by means of a twist grip which is provided on the end of a tiller
 5 mounted directly on the outboard motor. The operator of the outboard motor can then specify in a
   per se known manner with the tiller, both the direction and the drive level of the motor.
   It is also known to provide a remote throttle device in which a drive lever is provided spaced from
   the boat drive to be controlled and with which the drive level of the electric motor can be specified.
   Typically, the remote throttle lever is arranged on a control stand of the boat so that it can be easily
20 operated by a driver whilst the driver also operates the steering wheel. A remote throttle device is
   used, in particular, when the motor is inaccessibly installed in the boat - for example, as a built-in
   motor with a shaft drive, as a built-in motor with a Z-drive, as a built-in motor with a sail drive or as a
   pod drive arranged substantially outside the boat. A remote throttle device can however also be
   used for controlling an outboard motor. The drive level of the controlled electric drive is herein
25 typically steplessly settable according to the setting of the drive lever.
   For controlling a boat drive, a plurality of remote throttle devices can also be provided, arranged at
   different positions on the boat - for example, at two different control stands or on the tiller and on a
   control stand.

                                                           2
   Typically, such devices have a base element rigidly connected to the boat and a drive lever
   operable by hand, which is pivotably articulated on the base element. During the pivot movement
   about the pivot axis, the drive lever acts upon a drive transducer - for example, in the form of a
   sensor - by means of which the power electronics of the electric motor can be controlled. Through
 5 the positioning of the drive lever, the drive level at which the electric drive is to be operated can
   accordingly be set by the operator. In a zero setting of the drive lever, the electric drive stands still.
   Through an actuation of the drive lever by hand from the zero setting, the electric drive is operated
   at a drive level according to the position of the drive lever.
   The drive lever can be moved and positioned in a range that is delimited by the zero setting and a
 o maximum setting in which the electric drive is operated at its maximum drive level. With a correctly
   configured system and, in particular, a correctly matched propeller, the maximum drive level also
   accords with the nominal power of the electric drive. The nominal power of the electric drive, also
   called the continuous nominal power is herein the maximum power that can be output on proper
   operation without any temporal restriction without impairing the operating life and safety of the
 5 electric drive, the power electronics and the battery bank. The aforementioned range between the
   zero setting and the maximum setting is typically provided for driving the electric drive in forward
   operation.
   In addition, such devices typically have a reverse setting of the drive lever to specify a reverse
   running of the electric drive. The reverse setting is settable with a movement of the drive lever from
 o the zero setting in the opposite direction from the aforementioned forward operation range. The
   drive unit, typically a propeller, of the electric drive generates a force according to the setting of the
   drive lever which acts in the opposite direction from the force generated during forward drive.
   It is also known that electric drives can be temporarily operated above their nominal power rating
   without any damage occurring, which can be caused, for example, by overheating of the electric
25 drive or a battery bank of the electric drive. Through the limitation of the power control of the electric
   drive of the boat to its nominal power, the maximum acceleration values thereby available or the
   maximum thrust thereby available in the short term are thus limited to the values usable at nominal
   power, so that the power capacity of the electric drive of the boat cannot be optimally exploited for
   all situations.
30 Summary of the Invention
   Starting from the known prior art, it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved
   device for specifying the power of an electric drive of a boat.

                                                       3
   The object is achieved with a device for specifying the drive level of an electric drive of a boat
   having the features of claim 1. Advantageous further embodiments are disclosed in the subclaims,
   the drawings and the present description.
   Accordingly, a device for specifying the drive level of an electric drive of a boat is proposed which
 5 comprises a hand-actuatable drive lever which can be positioned between a zero setting in which
   the electric drive is stationary and a maximum setting in which the electric drive is operated at its
   maximum drive level. According to the invention, a hand-actuatable overload switching device is
   provided, on actuation of which the electric drive is operated in an overload operation.
   In that a hand-actuatable overload switching device is provided, on operation of which the electric
 o drive is operated in an overload operation, by means of the switching by hand as compared with
   operation at the maximum drive level, the electric drive can provide an increased thrust or a
   stronger acceleration acting upon the boat. Consequently, the power capacity of the electric drive
   can thereby be optimally utilized.
   The drive level can be realized by means of a rotary speed stipulation pre-set with the drive lever,
 5 so that on reaching the pre-set maximum rotary speed in the maximum drive level, the nominal
   power of the electric motor is also utilized.
   If, however due to a non-optimum design of the drive system - for example, with a propeller having
   too great a pitch - a system-related pre-determined maximum torque of the electric motor is reached
   before the maximum rotary speed pre-determined by means of the drive lever is achieved, the
 o nominal power in the maximum drive setting pre-determined by the drive lever is not reached. In
   such a case, the drive level is then pre-determined by the system-related pre-determined maximum
   torque. A maximum torque of the electric motor is typically pre-determined in the system in order to
   prevent a thermal overloading of the motor and consequent damage to the motor.
   The drive level can also be realized by means of the power setting or torque setting pre-determined
25 through the drive lever.
   By means of the switching of the overload switching device, at least one of the existing limitations in
   the maximum drive level can be cancelled or displaced. For example, an increased rotary speed in
   relation to the pre-determined maximum rotary speed and/or an increased torque in relation to the
   pre-determined maximum torque and/or an increased power in relation to the nominal power can be
30 lifted or displaced by switching the overload switching device.

                                                          4
   By means of the proposed device, the electric drive can therefore be operated with improved or
   increased output data. Thereby, firstly a more sporty handling behavior of the boat is enabled.
   Secondly, an increased safety can be achieved, since in situations in which an increased motor
   output is advantageous or even necessary, for example, during evasive maneuvers, during an
 5 emergency stop, in heavy seas and strong winds and/or strong currents or for passing danger
   areas, by actuating the overload switching device, additional thrust can be made available.
   Preferably, the electric drive is operable in overload operation at a rotary speed and/or a torque
   and/or a power output of 101% to 150%, preferably 120% to 140%, particularly preferably at 125%
   to 130% of a maximum rotary speed pre-determined in the maximum drive level and/or a pre
 o determinable maximum torque and/or a nominal power rating.
   In the case of a drive lever actuatable by hand, it can be a remote throttle lever that is spaced apart
   from the electric drive, or a drive lever on the tiller of an outboard motor.
   In a preferred embodiment, the device also has a reverse setting of the drive lever for specifying a
   reverse running of the electric drive. The reverse setting is settable with a movement of the drive
 5 lever from the zero setting in the opposite direction from the aforementioned forward operation
   range. Preferably, the electric drive is operable with actuation of the overload switching device by
   hand, including in the reverse setting in an overload operation. In this way, in particular with an
   emergency stop, the limitations pre-determined in the maximum drive level can be overcome and
   an increased power of the motor can be called upon in order to bring the boat to a standstill in a
 o shorter distance.
   It is further provided that in a preferred further embodiment, the drive lever has a locking device for
   locking the drive lever in a particular position, preferably in the zero setting. It is thereby ensured
   that the drive lever is not accidentally moved out of the locked position, preferably the zero setting.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the overload switching device is provided by a movement of the
25 drive lever beyond the maximum setting into an overload setting. In this way, the device can have a
   particularly simple construction since no additional setting devices are needed for setting the
   overload operation. Furthermore, the operation of the device is configured to be particularly
   ergonomic and simple. A person operating the device must only move the drive lever, which he
   already uses for specifying the desired drive level of the electric drive, beyond the maximum setting
30 without additional hand movements or operating steps being necessary. The person operating the
   device therefore does not need to concentrate excessively on the operation of the device, but can
   substantially concentrate on the steering of the boat, so that even during overload operation with
   increased thrust, a safe and attentive guidance of the boat is enabled.

                                                          5
   In a further preferred embodiment, the drive lever has a first stop at the maximum setting wherein
   the drive lever is movable beyond the maximum setting into the overload setting against a
   pretension. In that the drive lever has a first stop in the maximum setting, a safe positioning of the
   drive lever is achieved. In other words, it is thereby ensured that in normal or continuous operation
 5 the drive lever is not unintentionally moved beyond the maximum setting. The movement of the
   drive lever is limited by the stop. If the person operating the device moves the drive lever into the
   maximum setting, the drive lever hits the stop and the movement of the drive lever is therefore
   initially limited. It is also signaled to the person operating the device haptically and optically that the
   maximum setting has been reached.
 o In order to specify the overload operation of the electric drive, the person operating the device then
   has to move the drive lever by hand against the pretension into the overload setting. Due to the
   pretension, an at least slightly greater force application is required for this than is necessary for
   positioning the drive lever as far as the maximum setting. By this means, it is ensured that the
   person operating the device does not set the overload operation unknowingly.
 5 In order to sustain the overload operation, the drive lever must also be continually held against the
   pretension in the overload setting by the person operating the device. If the person operating the
   device releases the drive lever again or reduces the force applied by hand to the drive lever, then
   due to the pretension, the drive lever is moved back into the maximum setting, so that the electric
   drive is again operated in the nominal operation.
 o In order to provide the pretension precisely and lastingly and in order to achieve a simple and
   robust structure of the device, the drive lever is pre-tensioned by means of a spring element and/or
   an elastomer element and/or a hydraulic pressure element and/or a pneumatic pressure element
   out of the overload setting into the maximum setting.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the overload switching device has a separate switch or button
25 that is actuatable by hand for setting the overload operation. By this means, a particularly easy
   switching of the overload operation can be achieved. For this, the person operating the device has
   only to actuate the switch or button. Furthermore, it can thus be prevented that the person operating
   the device, in particular in heavy seas during which the person uses the drive lever at least
   temporarily, including to maintain his balance, and when holding-on possibly transfers unintentional
30 sudden movements to the drive lever, accidentally switches into overload operation.
   In a further preferred embodiment, in order to set the overload operation, both the separate switch
   and also the movement of the drive lever beyond the maximum setting into the overload setting can
   be provided. Thus, the person operating the device can freely decide in which way he switches in

                                                         6
   the overload operation. In a preferred development, the separate switch can be used in general to
   enable or to prevent the overload operation. In other words, a setting of the switch can be provided
   such that a setting of the overload operation is permanently prevented, so that even on a movement
   of the drive lever into the overload setting, the electric motor is not switched into the overload
 5 operation. If the switch is in another switch setting, then the setting of the overload operation is in
   general enabled by a movement of the drive lever into the overload setting. The separate switch
   therefore acts as an upstream on and off switch for the overload operation.
   In order to provide a particularly simple construction of the device and particularly good ergonomics
   for the person operating the device, in a further preferred embodiment, the separate switch is
 o provided in a structural unit with the drive lever. Preferably, the separate switch is arranged on the
   drive lever such that the person operating the device can operate the separate switch without
   releasing the hand from the drive lever and/or substantially changing his hand position on the drive
   lever.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the overload switching device has a limiting unit for temporal
 5 limitation of the overload operation of the electric drive. In this way, it can be ensured that the
   electric drive is operated in overload operation only for as long as this is possible without danger. In
   other words, through the temporary limitation of the overload operation, it is ensured that the electric
   drive, the power electronics and the battery bank suffer no damage from the overload operation.
   Preferably, the limiting unit is provided in an electronic form. Alternatively, it can also be configured
 o at least partially in a mechanical form, for example, in the form of a time switch clock.
   Accordingly, in a further preferred embodiment, the limiting unit can be configured such that it
   switches back from the overload operation into the maximum drive level after a pre-determined
   switching time and/or on the basis of at least one operating parameter, preferably a temperature
   value of the electric drive and/or a battery bank of the electric drive. Thus, it can be prevented
25 particularly reliably that damage occurs to the electric drive through the overload operation, for
   example, due to overheating.
   Preferably, at least one sensor is provided on the electric drive which determines an operating
   parameter. A particularly reliable operation can herein be achieved if a plurality of sensors is
   provided at different sites or components of the electric drive, for example, in the region of a stator,
30 a rotor, a control or regulating console or circuit board and/or the battery bank.
   In a further preferred embodiment, a blocking unit is also provided for temporary blocking of the
   overload operation. By this means, it can be prevented that the electric drive can be switched
   immediately into the overload operation again once the limiting unit has switched it back into the

                                                            7
   maximum drive level, which could lead to an overheating of the electric drive or its components. The
   blocking unit is herein preferably integrated into the limiting unit. Alternatively, it can also be
   provided separately therefrom.
   Preferably, the blocking unit is configured such that for a pre-determined blocking time and/or on
 5 the basis of the at least one operating parameter, preferably a temperature value of the electric
   drive and/or of the battery bank of the electric drive, it blocks the renewed switching on of the
   overload operation.
   Preferably, switching on again of the overload operation is blocked for at least so long until all the
   parameters are again below a predetermined threshold value.
 o In a further preferred embodiment, a trim-tilt switch for setting the position of the electric drive
   relative to a horizontal pivot axis of the electric drive is arranged on the drive lever. By this means,
   the position of the electric drive can be adapted according to the position of the boat in the water, so
   that the drive unit of the electric drive, preferably a propeller or its rotation axis, is positioned
   substantially horizontally in the water. The thrust generated by the drive unit of the electric drive
 5 then contributes substantially completely to the acceleration of the boat in the movement direction.
   Furthermore, by means of the trim-tilt switch, preferably on non-use or standstill of the boat, the
   electric drive can be raised out of the water.
   In order to achieve a particularly simple and robust structure of the device and to provide good
   usability, the trim-tilt switch can be configured in the form of a membrane keyboard or a rocker
 o switch.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the drive lever is provided in a drive regulating unit together with
   a graphical display unit for the graphical representation of information. In this way, a compact
   construction can be provided. Therefore other units that would otherwise need to be provided to
   present information in the boat can be dispensed with. By means of the graphical display unit, in
25 particular, the speed of the boat, the charging condition of the battery and the expected range of the
   boat, the motor power being drawn and/or error messages from the power electronics can be
   displayed.
   In a further preferred embodiment, the device can be provided on the electric drive, preferably on a
   control unit, such as a tiller or a throttle lever, of the electric drive. In this way, a particularly easy
30 driving of the boat is achieved.

                                                        8
   In an alternative preferred embodiment, the device is providable spaced from the electric drive, for
   example, in the form of a remote throttle lever. In particular, if a control device, for example, a
   steering wheel for steering the direction of the boat is arranged on the boat spaced from the electric
   drive, then the device can be arranged in the immediate vicinity of the control device, so that both
 5 the control and also the drive level specification to the electric drive can take place from a position
   on the boat.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   Preferred further embodiments of the invention are disclosed in detail with the following description
   of the drawings. In the drawings:
 o Fig. 1 is a schematic perspective side view of a device for specifying the drive level of an electric
            drive of a boat;
   Fig. 2   is a schematic side view of a device for specifying the drive level of an electric drive of a
            boat in a further embodiment;
   Fig. 3   is a schematic detail view of the device of Fig. 2;
 5 Fig. 4   is a further schematic detail view of the device of Fig. 2; and
   Fig. 5   is a schematic view of a boat with an electric drive and a device for specifying the drive
            level of the electric drive.
   Detailed Description of Preferred Exemplary Embodiments
   Preferred exemplary embodiments will now be described making reference to the drawings. Herein,
20 identical, similar or similarly acting elements are provided with the same reference signs in the
   different drawings, and, for the avoidance of redundancy, repeated description of these elements is
   partially dispensed with.
   Fig. 1 shows a schematic perspective side view of a device 1 for specifying the drive level of an
   electric drive 12 of a boat 10. The device 1 comprises a base element 3 connectable to a boat's
25 side (not shown) on which a hand-actuatable drive lever 2 which is arranged pivotable about a pivot
   axis 29. During the pivot movement about the pivot axis 29, the drive lever 2 acts upon a drive
   transducer - for example, in the form of a sensor - by means of which the power electronics of the
   electric motor can be controlled. Through the positioning of the drive lever 2, the drive level at which
   the electric drive 12 is to be operated can accordingly be specified. The drive level can be specified,

                                                         9
   for example, by means of a rotary speed specification, a power specification or a torque
   specification.
   In a zero setting 20 of the drive lever 2, the electric drive stands still. Through an actuation of the
   drive lever 2 by hand from the zero setting 20, the electric drive 12 is operated at a drive level
 5 according to the position of the drive lever 2. The drive lever 2 can be moved and positioned in a
   range that is delimited by the zero setting 20 on one side and a maximum setting 22 in which the
   electric drive is operated at its maximum drive level in forward operation. In Fig. 1, the drive lever 2
   is in the maximum setting 22 and with an optimally configured drive system, the maximum rotary
   speed, maximum power or nominal power or the pre-determined maximum torque specified by the
 o drive lever 2 in the maximum setting 22 is achieved.
   If, however due to a non-optimum design of the drive system - for example, with a propeller having
   too great a pitch - a system-related maximum torque of the electric motor is reached before a
   maximum rotary speed specified by means of the drive lever is achieved, the nominal power in the
   maximum drive level pre-determined by the drive lever is not reached. In such a case, the drive
 5 level is then limited by the system-related pre-determined maximum torque. A maximum torque of
   the electric motor is typically pre-determined in the system in order to prevent a thermal overloading
   of the motor and consequent damage to the motor.
   The drive lever 2 can also be moved out of the zero setting 20 into a reverse setting 25 which, seen
   from the zero setting 20, is opposite to the maximum setting 22. The electric drive then generates a
 o thrust opposed to the forward operation.
   The device 1 shown in Fig. 1 also has an overload switching device 4, on actuation of which the
   electric drive 12 is operated in an overload operation.
   By means of the switching of the overload switching device 4, at least one of the existing limitations
   existing in the maximum drive level can be displaced. For example, an increased rotary speed
25 relative to the maximum rotary speed pre-determined by the maximum drive level and/or an
   increased torque relative to the pre-determined maximum torque and/or an increased power in
   relation to the nominal power can be pre-determined by switching the overload switching device 4.
   Preferably, the electric drive is operable in overload operation at a rotary speed, a torque or a power
   output of 101% to 150%, preferably 120% to 140%, particularly preferably 125% to 130% of a
30 maximum rotary speed pre-determined by the maximum drive level, a pre-determined maximum
   torque or a nominal power rating.

                                                         10
   The electric drive can thereby provide an increased thrust or a stronger acceleration acting upon the
   boat as compared with operation at the maximum drive level. In order to actuate the overload
   switching device 4, it has a separate switch 40 actuatable by hand which is provided in a structural
   unit with the drive lever 2. The overload device 4 can be actuated either in forward operation or in
 5 reverse operation.
   The overload switching device 4 also has a limiting unit (not shown) in electronic form for
   temporarily limiting the overload operation of the electric drive 12. The limiting unit or the temporary
   limitation of the overload operation ensures that the electric drive 12 is operated in overload
   operation only for as long as this is possible without danger and the electric drive does not suffer
 o damage through the overload operation.
   In the embodiment shown in Fig. 1, the limiting unit switches the electric drive after a pre
   determined switching time of 30 seconds from the overload operation back into the maximum drive
   level. It is thereby prevented that damage occurs to the electric drive 12 through the overload
   operation, for example, due to overheating.
 5 Furthermore, a blocking unit 50 configured together with the limiting unit 5 in a control circuit (not
   shown) of the device is provided for temporary blocking of the overload operation. The blocking unit
   prevents that the electric drive can be switched immediately into the overload operation again once
   the limiting unit has switched it back from the overload operation into the maximum drive level,
   which could lead to an overheating of the electric drive or its components. In the present instance,
 o following a pre-settable blocking time, the blocking unit 50 unblocks the activation of the overload
   operation again. In a preferred alternative, the switching into the overload operation is unblocked
   again only once particular parameters or all parameters are again below a pre-determined
   threshold. For example, a renewed switching into the overload operation is only unblocked again
   once the temperature parameters are below a pre-determined value again.
25 The drive lever 2 also has a trim-tilt switch 6 for setting the position of the electric drive 12 or the
   drive axis of the propeller relative to the orientation of the boat 10. The trim-tilt switch 6 is arranged
   laterally on the drive lever 2 in the form of a membrane keyboard with two membrane keys 60. By
   this means, the position of the electric drive 12 can be adapted according to the position of the boat
   10 in the water. A drive unit 12, preferably a propeller 16 of the electric drive 12 or its rotation axis
30 can be positioned horizontally by actuating the membrane keys 60 of the trim-tilt switch 6. The
   thrust generated by the drive unit of the electric drive 12 thus contributes substantially completely to
   the acceleration of the boat in the movement direction. Furthermore, by means of the trim-tilt switch
   6, during non-use or standstill of the boat 10, the electric drive can be raised out of the water in

                                                        11
   order to reduce growth or algae deposits and/or to reduce movement resistance when sailing and/or
   to prevent ground contact when going ashore or travelling in shallow water.
   Also provided on the base element 3 is a graphical display unit 7 for the graphical representation of
   information. By means of the graphical display unit 7, for example, the speed of the boat, the
 5 charging condition of the battery and the expected range of the boat, the motor power being drawn
   and error messages from the power electronics can be displayed. The drive lever 2 and the
   graphical display unit 7 herein together form a drive regulating unit.
   Fig. 2 shows schematically a side view of a device 1 for specifying the drive level of an electric drive
   of a boat in a further embodiment. The device 1 corresponds substantially in its construction to that
 o of Fig. 1. In the device 1 shown in Fig. 2, however, the overload switching device 4 has no separate
   switch.
   Rather, the overload switching device 4 is provided by a movement of the drive lever 2 beyond the
   maximum setting 22 into an overload setting 24. The drive lever 2 has a first stop (not shown) at the
   maximum setting 22, wherein the drive lever 2 is movable beyond the maximum setting 22 into the
 5 overload setting 24 against a pretension. In order to sustain the overload operation, the drive lever 2
   must be held by hand in the overload setting 24 against the pretension. If the drive lever 2 is
   released, due to the pretension, it is automatically restored to the maximum setting 22, so that the
   electric drive is operated in the maximum drive level again.
   The limiting unit 1 of the device of Fig. 2 switches, on the basis of the value of an operating
 o parameter of the electric drive, for example, a temperature value of the electric motor, out of the
   overload operation and back again into the maximum drive setting. For this purpose, the limiting unit
   is linked to a plurality of temperature sensors that are arranged on different components of the
   electric drive, in this case the battery bank, the stator and the rotor of the electric drive. If one of the
   temperature values transmitted by the plurality of sensors to the limiting unit exceeds a respective
25 specifically pre-defined limit value for the individual components, the limiting unit switches the
   overload operation off and switches back into the maximum drive setting.
   Furthermore, the blocking unit of the device of Fig. 2 provided in the overload switching device 4
   blocks the switching on again of the overload operation on the basis of the temperature values
   provided by the plurality of sensors. Only when all the temperature values each lie below a value
30 pre-defined for the individual components does the blocking unit release the blocking of the
   possibility of switching on the overload operation.

                                                          12
   The device 2 further comprises a connection 8 by means of which the device 1 can be connected to
   a control system of the electric drive.
   Alternatively, the overload switching device 4 can also have a further pre-tensioned stop (not
   shown) in the reverse setting 25 wherein by moving the drive lever 2 beyond the reverse setting 25
 5 into a rearward overload setting, the overload switching device 4 is accordingly also actuatable for
   the reverse operation. This is helpful, in particular, when initiating an emergency stop maneuver.
   Figs. 3 and 4 show schematic detail views of the device of Fig. 2. In Fig. 3, the drive lever 2 is in the
   maximum setting 22 and lies against a first stop 26. The first stop 26 is herein formed by a stop
   element 42 pre-tensioned by at least one pre-tensioning element 44 which is in operative
 o connection with the overload switching device 4. The stop element 42 is herein in an extended
   state.
   In Fig. 4, the drive lever 2 is in the overload setting 24 and lies against a second stop 28. The
   second stop 28 is formed by the stop element 42 pressed against the pretension into a retracted
   position. Through the pressing-in of the stop element 42, the overload switching device 4 is
 5 actuated and the electric drive is switched into the overload operation. The electric drive is herein
   operated in overload operation until either the drive lever 2 is moved out of the overload setting 24
   again or the limiting unit 5 of the overload switching device 4 switches the overload operation off
   and switches into the maximum drive setting. Herein, the setting of the drive lever 2 into the
   overload setting 24 has no significance. In other words, the limiting unit 5 also switches back into
 o the maximum drive setting when the drive lever 2 is still held in the overload setting 24.
   Fig. 5 shows schematically a boat 10 with an electric drive 12, in the form of an electric outboard
   drive, and a device 1 arranged on the boat 10 spaced from the electric drive 12, for specifying the
   drive level of the electric drive 12 according to one of the embodiments of Figs. 1 and 2. The electric
   drive 12 is pivotably fastened to the boat 10 by means of a horizontal pivot axis 14. The position of
25 the electric drive 12 relative to the horizontal pivot axis 14 can be set by means of the trim-tilt switch
   6 of the device 1. Depending upon the orientation of the boat relative to the horizontal, the electric
   drive can be pivoted in a trim range 62 during operation of the electric drive 12 by actuation of the
   trim-tilt switch 6, so that a propeller 16 of the electric drive 12 or its propeller axis 18 is positioned
   substantially horizontally. The thrust generated by the propeller 16 then contributes substantially
30 completely to the acceleration of the boat 10 in the movement direction.
   If the electric drive 12 is out of operation or if the drive lever 2 is in the zero setting 22, then the
   electric drive 12 can be pivoted beyond the trim range 62 into a tilt range 64. By this means, the

                                                      13
  electric drive 12 can be lifted partially or even completely out of the water into a favorable position
  for the transport of the boat 10.
  As far as practicable, all the individual features which are described in the exemplary embodiments
  can be combined with one another and/or exchanged without departing from the scope of the
5 invention.

                                    14
   Reference signs
   1      Device
   10     Boat
   12     Electric drive
 5 14     Horizontal pivot axis
   16     Propeller
   18     Propeller axis
   2      Drive lever
   20     Zero setting
 o 22     Maximum setting
   24     Overload setting
   25     Reverse setting
   26     First stop
   28     Second stop
 5 29     Pivot axis
   3      Base element
   4      Overload switching device
   40     Separate switch
   42     Stop element
 o 44     Pre-tensioning element
   5      Limiting unit
   50     Blocking unit
   6      Trim-tilt switch
   60     Membrane keys
25 62     Trim range
   64     Tilt range
   7      Graphical display unit
   8      Connection

                                                  15
   Claims
       1. Device (1) for specifying the drive level of an electric drive (12) of a boat (10),
          comprising a hand-actuatable drive lever (2) which can be positioned between a zero
          setting (20) in which the electric drive (12) is stationary and a maximum setting (22) in
 5        which the electric drive (12) is operated at its maximum drive level,
          characterized in that
          a hand-actuatable overload switching device (4) is provided, on actuation of which the
 o        electric drive (12) is operated in an overload operation.
       2. Device (1) according to claim 1, characterized in that the overload switching device (4)
          is provided by a movement of the drive lever (2) beyond the maximum setting (22) into
          an overload setting.
       3. Device (1) according to claim 2, characterized in that the drive lever (2) has a first stop
 5        at the maximum setting (22), and the drive lever (2) is movable beyond the maximum
          setting (22) into the overload setting against a pretension.
       4. Device (1) according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that the drive lever (2) is pre
          tensioned by means of a spring element and/or a hydraulic pressure element and/or a
          pneumatic pressure element out of the overload setting into the maximum setting (22).
_o     5. Device (1) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
          overload switching device (4) has a hand-actuatable separate switch (40) for setting the
          overload operation.
       6. Device (1) according to claim 5, characterized in that the separate switch (40) is
          provided in a structural unit with the drive lever (2).
25     7. Device (1) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
          overload switching device (4) has a limiting unit (5) for the temporal limitation of the
          overload operation.
       8. Device (1) according to claim 7, characterized in that the limiting unit (5) is configured
          such that it switches from the overload operation into the maximum drive level after a
30        pre-determined switching time (ts) and/or on the basis of at least one operating
          parameter, preferably a temperature value of the electric drive and/or a battery bank.

                                                16
  9.  Device (1) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a trim
      tilt switch (6) for setting the position of the electric drive (12) relative to a horizontal pivot
      axis (14) of the electric drive (12) is arranged on the drive lever (2).
  10. Device (1) according to claim 9, characterized in that the trim-tilt switch (6) is provided
5     in a structural unit with the drive lever (2).
  11. Device (1) according to claim 9 or 10, characterized in that the trim-tilt switch (6) is
      provided in the form of a membrane keyboard (60) or a rocker switch.
  12. Device (1) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the
      drive lever (2) is provided in a drive regulating unit together with a graphical display unit
o     (7) for the graphical representation of information.
  13. Device (1) according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it is
      providable on the electric drive, preferably on a control unit, particularly preferably a
      tiller, of the electric drive.
  14. Device (1) according to any one of the claims 1 to 12, characterized in that it is
5     provided spaced from the electric drive, preferably as a remote throttle lever.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               1/5
Fig. 1
                                     TOR17593DE

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               2/5
Fig. 2
                                     TOR17593DE

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               3/5
Fig. 3
                                     TOR17593DE

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               4/5
Fig. 4
                                     TOR17593DE

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               5/5
Fig. 5
                                     TOR17593DE

