   ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        The invention relates to a tent supporting framework and a tent. The tent supporting
   framework is characterized by comprising a central ejection component, ejection rods and
   support rods, wherein a plurality of L-shaped hinge ports are formed in the upper portion
 5 of the central ejection component in the circumferential direction, the number of the
   ejection rods is matched with that of the L-shaped hinge ports, the upper ends of the
   ejection rods are hinged into the L-shaped hinge ports, and the lower ends of the ejection
   rods are connected with the support rods through hinge components; the support rods
   include upper support rods and bottom support rods, the upper support rods and bottom
10 support rods are connected through telescopic structures, and locking devices are arranged
   between the upper support rods and bottom support rods. When a tent adopting the
   supporting framework is unfolded, the framework can stand freely by means of the elastic
   restraint of the soft surface, limiting points are formed in the hinge components, lateral leg
   tubes are each of a telescopic structure, and thus the whole tent is convenient to unfold and
15 fold and good in stability. When the tent is folded through the supporting framework, the
   hinge components can be directly stored without being unlocked after the upper support
   rods and bottom support rods are unlocked, and thus the tent is more convenient to unfold
   and fold.
                                                   15

       12
          64
FIG. 2
 1/5

                     TENT SUPPORTING FRAMEWORK AND TENT
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      Technical Field
    [0002]      The invention relates to a tent supporting framework and a tent.
[0003]      Description of Related Art
    [0004]      In prior art, most folding tents each comprise a tent supporting framework
and tent cloth arranged on tent supporting framework in a covering mode, wherein the tent
supporting framework comprises a plurality of support rods, the support rods are radially
connected to a top connection base at the center of the top end of the tent to form the tent
roof, the tent roof is supported by at least three legs, and the legs are connected in a
pivoted or sliding mode through one leg tube or at least two leg tubes. When the tent is
used, users just need to unfold the tent supporting framework to further drive the tent cloth
to be unfolded, and thus the tent is formed and erected on the ground. In prior art, all joints
need to be unlocked when the tents are folded, and bending components are needed to fold
the leg tubes.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    [0005]      To solve the above technical problems, the invention aims to provide a tent
supporting framework, a tent adopting the tent supporting framework and a double-layer
tent adopting the tent supporting framework. According to the tent supporting framework
of the invention, when the tent is folded, hinge components can be directly stored without
being unlocked after upper support rods and bottom support rods are unlocked, and thus
the tent is more convenient to unfold and fold.
    [0006]      The following technical scheme is adopted for the tent supporting
framework of the invention.
                                                1

     [0007]      The tent supporting framework is characterized by comprising a central
 ejection component, ejection rods and support rods, wherein a plurality of hinge ports are
 formed in the upper portion of the central ejection component in the circumferential
 direction, the upper ends of the ejection rods are hinged into the hinge ports, and the lower
 ends of the ejection rods are connected with the support rods through hinge components;
 and the support rods include upper support rods and bottom support rods, the upper
 support rods and bottom support rods are connected through telescopic structures, and
 locking devices are arranged between the upper support rods and bottom support rods.
     [0008]      As a further improvement, each hinge component comprises a first hinge
joint and a second hinge joint, wherein the first hinge joint is composed of a first
 connection part and two first hinge discs, the first connection part is fixedly connected
 with the lower end of the corresponding ejection rod, and a hinge port is formed between
 the two first hinge discs; the second hinge joint is composed of a second connection part
 and a second hinge disc, the second connection part is fixedly connected with the upper
 end of the corresponding support rod, and the second hinge disc is arranged in the hinge
port; the middle of the first hinge disc and the middle of the second hinge disc are
 connected through a hinge pin, and a guide limiting boss is arranged on the inner side wall
 of the hinge port of the first hinge disc; an arc-shaped guide groove concentric with the
 hinge pin is formed in the outer side wall of the second hinge disc, the radian of the
 arc-shaped guide groove is 120-145 degrees, and the guide limiting boss is arranged in the
 arc-shaped guide groove; the two ends of the arc-shaped guide groove are separately
provided with an initial limiting port and a lock limiting port, the initial limiting port is
 connected and provided with a boss insertion port, and the boss insertion port extends to
 the outer circle of the second hinge disc in an open mode; when the first hinge joint and
 the second hinge joint are in the folded state, the first connection part is in parallel with
 the second connection part, and the guide limiting boss is located in the initial limiting
                                               2

port; and when the first hinge joint and the second hinge joint are in the unfolded state, the
angle between the first connection part and the second connection part is 120-145 degrees,
and the guide limiting boss is located in the lock limiting port.
     [0009]     As a further improvement, the angle between each first connection part and
the corresponding first hinge discs is 120-145 degrees, and the angle between each second
connection part and the corresponding second hinge disc is 120-145 degrees.
     [0010]     As a further improvement, U-shaped connection pieces are further arranged
at the two ends of each hinge pin, the two ends of each U-shaped connection piece are
fixedly arranged at the two ends of the corresponding hinge pin separately, and spacers are
arranged between the two ends of each U-shaped connection piece and the corresponding
first hinge discs. Inner tent cloth can be hung through the U-shaped connection pieces.
     [0011]     As a further improvement, each locking device comprises an outer
connector, an inner connector, a button and a locking block, wherein the outer connector is
fixedly arranged at the upper end of the corresponding bottom support rod, the inner
connector is arranged at the lower end of the corresponding upper support rod, a radial
sliding groove is formed in the inner connector, the locking block is arranged in the sliding
groove, and a first spring is arranged between the locking block and the interior of the
sliding groove; and through holes are separately formed in the side walls of the bottom
support rods and the upper support rods at the lock positions, the locking block stretches
out of the corresponding through hole, the button is arranged outside the corresponding
through hole, the inner end of the button is connected with the outer end of the locking
block, and the locking block can retract into the through hole of the corresponding bottom
support rod through the button. A simple telescopic locking method for the upper support
rods and bottom support rods is provided in the above description; however, the invention
is not limited to this method, and the purpose of the invention can be realized through any
existing telescopic structures.
                                               3

    [0012]      As a further improvement, the locking blocks are metal parts, plastic parts
are arranged in the locking blocks, the plastic parts are each in an R shape and are fastened
in through holes of the locking blocks, and the ends of the outer sides of the plastic parts
stretch out of the through holes and are each in an arc shape. The metal parts can be
locked stably, but have the unique defect that noise can be generated by friction between
the metal parts and the inner walls of the upper support rods when the metal parts slide. In
the invention, the plastic parts are arranged in the locking blocks, and thus metal frictional
noise is avoided when the plastic parts slide along the inner walls of the upper support
rods. Of course, as the simplest method, the whole locking blocks can be plastic parts
while the strength of the plastic parts is ensured.
    [0013]      As a further improvement, the hinge ports are each in an L shape, and the
ejection rods are supported by the bottoms of the L-shaped hinge ports.
    [0014]      As a further improvement, the central ejection component comprises an
upper cover plate and a lower bottom plate, the upper cover plate and the lower bottom
plate are connected through screw fixing pipes, the upper cover plate is provided with a
plurality of arc-shaped notches arranged in the radial direction, two arc-shaped connection
plates are arranged at the position, corresponding to each arc-shaped notch, of the lower
bottom plate, each hinge port is formed between the two corresponding arc-shaped
connection plates, and shaft holes are oppositely formed in every two corresponding
arc-shaped connection plates separately. The structure of the central ejection component is
provided in the above description, and for conveniently mounting the ejection rods, the
simplest hinge structure can be provided.
    [0015]      As a further improvement, the number of the ejection rods and the number
of the support rods are 3-6.
    [0016]      As a further improvement, the supporting framework comprises a lateral
upper rod and a lateral support rod, the two ends of the lateral support rod are supported
                                                4

on the ground, a middle protrusion is arranged on the upper portion of the lateral support
rod, a radial connection port is formed in the lower portion of the central ejection
component, one end of the lateral upper rod is arranged in the connection port, the other
end of the lateral upper rod is fastened on the middle protrusion of the lateral support rod
through a fastener. Stable supporting can be achieved through 3-6 ejection rods and 3-6
support rods. However, in many cases, outer tent cloth needs to be arranged for forming an
outer hall outside an inner tent, the lateral upper rod and the lateral support rod in the
invention can be used for supporting the outer tent cloth, and particularly, the doorway of
the inner tent can be shielded by the outer tent cloth on the lateral upper rod and the lateral
support rod, so that rainwater is prevented from directly entering the doorway of the inner
tent, the sunshade area is enlarged, and the heat retention property is improved.
    [0017]      As a further improvement, an arc-shaped metal hook is arranged at one end
of the lateral upper rod and fastened in the connection port. As the arc-shaped metal hook
can be fastened in the connection port, and thus hit injuries caused by disengagement of
the connection end of the lateral upper rod from the connection port when the lateral
support rod is dismounted in the folding process are avoided.
    [0018]      The following technical scheme is adopted for the tent of the invention:
    [0019]      The tent comprises inner tent cloth and a supporting framework in any
technical scheme mentioned above, and the inner tent cloth is arranged in the supporting
framework through hanging buckles.
    [0020]      The following technical scheme is adopted for the double-layer tent of the
invention:
    [0021]      The double-layer tent comprises inner tent cloth, outer tent cloth and the
supporting framework in any of the technical schemes mentioned above, the inner tent
cloth is arranged in the supporting framework through hanging buckles, and the outer tent
cloth is supported by the supporting framework and arranged outside the supporting
                                              5

framework.
    [0022]      By adoption of the above technical schemes, when the tent adopting the
supporting framework is unfolded, the framework can stand freely by means of the elastic
restraint of the soft surface; and meanwhile, limiting points are formed in the hinge
components, lateral leg tubes are each of a telescopic structure, and therefore, the whole
tent is convenient to unfold and fold and good in stability. When the supporting
framework is used for folding the tent, the hinge components can be directly stored
without being unlocked after the upper support rods and bottom support rods are unlocked,
and thus the tent is more convenient to unfold and fold.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0023]      FIG. 1 is a structural diagram of the invention;
    [0024]      FIG. 2 is a structural diagram of the invention in the initially folded state;
    [0025]      FIG. 3 is a structural diagram of the invention in the folded state;
    [0026]      FIG. 4 is a structural diagram of a hinge component in the unfolded state;
    [0027]      FIG. 5 is a structural diagram of the hinge component in the folded state;
    [0028]      FIG. 6 is a structural diagram of a first hinge joint;
    [0029]      FIG. 7 is a structural diagram of a second hinge joint;
    [0030]      FIG. 8 is a structural diagram of a locking device;
    [0031]      FIG. 9 is a structural diagram of a central ejection component;
    [0032]      FIG. 10 is a structural diagram of an upper cover plate;
    [0033]      FIG. 11 is a structural diagram of the invention under the condition that a
lateral upper rod and a lateral support rod are additionally arranged; and
    [0034]      FIG. 12 is a structural diagram of the lateral upper rod.
                                               6

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     [0035]     A detailed description of the specific embodiment of the invention is given
with the accompanying drawings as follows.
     [0036]     As is shown in FIG. 1, a tent supporting framework comprises a central
ejection component 1, ejection rods 2 and support rods 3, wherein four L-shaped hinge
port 10 are formed in the upper portion of the central ejection component 1 in the
circumferential direction, the number of the ejection rods 2 is matched with that of the
L-shaped hinge ports 10, the upper ends of the ejection rods 2 are hinged into the
L-shaped hinge ports 10, and the lower ends of the ejection rods 2 are connected with the
support rods 3 through hinge components 6; and the support rods 3 include upper support
rods 3 and bottom support rods 3, the upper support rods 3 and bottom support rods 3 are
connected through telescopic structures, and locking devices 7 are arranged between the
upper support rods 3 and bottom support rods 3. As is shown in FIG. 4 and FIG. 5, each
hinge component 6 comprises a first hinge joint 61 and a second hinge joint 62. As is
shown in FIG. 6, each first hinge joint 61 is composed of a first connection part 611 and
two first hinge discs 612, wherein the angle between the first connection part 611 and each
first hinge disc 612 is 135 degrees, the first connection part 611 is fixedly connected with
the lower end of the corresponding ejection rod 2, and a hinge port is formed between the
two first hinge discs 612. As is shown in FIG. 7, each second hinge joint 62 is composed
of a second connection part 621 and a second hinge disc 622, wherein the angle between
the second connection part 621 and the second hinge disc 622 is 135 degrees, the second
connection part 621 is fixedly connected with the upper end of the corresponding support
rod 3, the second hinge disc 622 is arranged in the hinge port, and the middle of the
corresponding first hinge disc 612 and the middle of the second hinge disc 622 are
connected through a hinge pin 63. As is shown in FIG. 1, U-shaped connection pieces 64
are further arranged at the two ends of each hinge pin 63, the two ends of each U-shaped
                                               7

connection piece 64 are fixedly arranged at the two ends of the corresponding hinge pin 63
separately, and spacers 65 are arranged between the two ends of each U-shaped connection
piece 64 and the corresponding first hinge discs 612. A first limiting slope 617 is arranged
at the joint of each first connection part 611 and the corresponding first hinge disc 612,
and a second limiting slope 627 is arranged at the joint of each second connection part 621
and the corresponding first hinge disc 622. As is shown in FIG. 6, a guide limiting boss
613 is arranged on the inner side wall of the hinge port of each first hinge disc 612, as is
shown in FIG. 7, an arc-shaped guide groove 623 concentric with the corresponding hinge
pin 63 is formed in the outer side wall of each second hinge disc 622, wherein the radian
of the arc-shaped guide groove 623 is 135 degrees, and the corresponding guide limiting
boss 613 is arranged in the arc-shaped guide groove 623; the two ends of the arc-shaped
guide groove 623 are separately provided with an initial limiting port 624 and a lock
limiting port 625, the initial limiting port 624 is connected and provided with a boss
insertion port 626, and the boss insertion port 626 extends to the outer circle of the
corresponding second hinge disc 622 in an open mode; when the first hinge joint 61 and
the second hinge joint 62 are in the folded state, the first connection part 611 is in parallel
with the second connection part 621 as is shown in FIG. 5, and the guide limiting boss 613
is located in the initial limiting port 624; and when the first hinge joint 61 and the second
hinge joint 62 are in the unfolded state, the angle between the first connection part 611 and
the second connection part 621 is 135 degrees as is shown in FIG. 4, and the guide limiting
boss 613 is located in the lock limiting port 625.
     [0037]     As is shown in FIG. 8, each locking device 7 comprises an outer connector
71, an inner connector 72, a button 74 and a locking block 75, wherein the outer connector
71 is fixedly arranged at the upper end of the corresponding bottom support rod 3, the
inner connector 72 is arranged at the lower end of the corresponding upper support rod 3,
a radial sliding groove 73 is formed in the inner connector 72, the locking block 75 is
                                                8

arranged in the sliding groove 73, and a first spring is arranged between the locking block
75 and the interior of the sliding groove 73; and through holes are separately formed in the
side walls of the bottom support rods 3 and the upper support rods 3 at the lock positions,
the locking block 75 stretches out of the corresponding through hole, the button 74 is
arranged outside the corresponding through hole, the inner end of the button 74 is
connected with the outer end of the locking block 75, and the locking block 75 can retract
into the through hole of the corresponding bottom support rod 3 through the button 74.
The locking blocks 75 are metal parts, plastic parts 76 are arranged in the locking blocks
75, the plastic parts 76 are each in an   71 shape and are fastened in through holes of the
locking blocks 75, and the ends of the outer sides of the plastic parts 76 stretch out of the
through holes and are each in an arc shape.
    [0038]      As is shown in FIG. 9 and FIG. 10, the central ejection component 1
comprises an upper cover plate 11 and a lower bottom plate 12, the upper cover plate 11
and the lower bottom plate 12 are connected through screw fixing pipes, the upper cover
plate 11 is provided with four arc-shaped notches 14 arranged in the radial direction, two
arc-shaped connection plates 15 are arranged at the position, corresponding to each
arc-shaped notch, of the lower bottom plate 12, each hinge port 10 is formed between the
two corresponding arc-shaped connection plates 15, and shaft holes 16 are oppositely
formed in every two corresponding arc-shaped connection plates 15 separately.
    [0039]      As is shown in FIG. 11, the supporting framework comprises a lateral upper
rod 8 and a lateral support rod 9, the two ends of the lateral support rod 9 are supported on
the ground, a middle protrusion is arranged on the upper portion of the lateral support rod
9, a radial connection port 13 is formed in the lower portion of the central ejection
component 1, one end of the lateral upper rod 8 is arranged in the connection port 13, the
other end of the lateral upper rod 8 is fastened on the middle protrusion of the lateral
support rod 9 through a fastener 81. As is shown in FIG. 12, an arc-shaped metal hook 82
                                               9

is arranged at one end of the lateral upper rod 8 and fastened in the connection port 13.
    [0040]      The invention further discloses a tent. The tent comprises inner tent cloth
and the supporting formwork, wherein the inner tent cloth is arranged in the supporting
framework through hanging buckles. In addition, as for a double-layer tent, the
double-layer tent comprises inner tent cloth, outer tent cloth and the supporting formwork,
wherein the inner tent cloth is arranged in the supporting framework through hanging
buckles, and the outer tent cloth is supported by the supporting framework and arranged
outside the supporting framework.
    [0041]      When the tent is in the unfolded state, the supporting framework is shown
in FIG. 1 and FIG. 11; when the tent needs to be folded, the locking devices are unlocked,
the upper support rods 3 and bottom support rods 3 are made to retract, at the moment, the
inner tent cloth is not restrained any more, the central ejection component 1 falls, the
ejection rods 2 and the support rods 3 are folded, and the inner tent cloth is folded along
with the supporting framework. As for the double-layer tent, the outer tent cloth is taken
down firstly, the lateral upper rod 8 and the lateral support rod 9 are then taken down, and
finally the operation the same with that of the single-layer tent is performed.
                                              10

   Claims:
        1. A tent supporting framework, characterized by comprising a central ejection
   components (1), ejection rods (2) and support rods (3), wherein a plurality of hinge ports
   (10) are formed in the upper portion of the central ejection component (1) in the
 5 circumferential direction, the upper ends of the ejection rods (2) are hinged into the hinge
   ports (10), and the lower ends of the ejection rods (2) are connected with the support rods
   (3) through hinge components (6); and the support rods (3) include upper support rods (3)
   and bottom support rods (3), the upper support rods (3) and bottom support rods (3) are
   connected through telescopic structures, and locking devices (7) are arranged between the
10 upper support rods (3) and bottom support rods (3).
       2. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 1, characterized in that each
   hinge component (6) comprises a first hinge joint (61) and a second hinge joint (62),
   wherein the first hinge joint (61) is composed of a first connection part (611) and two first
   hinge discs (612), the first connection part (611) is fixedly connected with the lower end
15 of the corresponding ejection rod (2), and a hinge port is formed between the two first
   hinge discs (612); the second hinge joint (62) is composed of a second connection part
   (621) and a second hinge disc (622), the second connection part (621) is fixedly connected
   with the upper end of the corresponding support rod (3), and the second hinge disc (622) is
   arranged in the hinge port; the middle of the first hinge disc (612) and the middle of the
20 second hinge disc (622) are connected through a hinge pin (63), and a guide limiting boss
   (613) is arranged on the inner side wall of the hinge port of the first hinge disc (612); an
   arc-shaped guide groove (623) concentric with the hinge pin (63) is formed in the outer
   side wall of the second hinge disc (622), the radian of the arc-shaped guide groove (623) is
   120-145 degrees, and the guide limiting boss (613) is arranged in the arc-shaped guide
25 groove (623); the two ends of the arc-shaped guide groove (623) are separately provided
   with an initial limiting port (624) and a lock limiting port (625), the initial limiting port
                                                 11

   (624) is connected and provided with a boss insertion port (626), and the boss insertion
   port (626) extends to the outer circle of the second hinge disc (622) in an open mode;
   when the first hinge joint (61) and the second hinge joint (62) are in the folded state, the
   first connection part (611) is in parallel with the second connection part (621), and the
 5 guide limiting boss (613) is located in the initial limiting port (624); and when the first
   hinge joint (61) and the second hinge joint (62) are in the unfolded state, the angle
   between the first connection part (611) and the second connection part (621) is 120-145
   degrees, and the guide limiting boss (613) is located in the lock limiting port (625).
        3. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 2, characterized in that the angle
10 between each first connection part (611) and the corresponding first hinge discs (612) is
   120-145 degrees, and the angle between each second connection part (621) and the
   corresponding second hinge disc (622) is 120-145 degrees.
       4. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 2, characterized in that U-shaped
   connection pieces (64) are further arranged at the two ends of each hinge pin (63), the two
15 ends of each U-shaped connection piece (64) are fixedly arranged at the two ends of the
   corresponding hinge pin (63) separately, and spacers (65) are arranged between the two
   ends of each U-shaped connection piece (64) and the corresponding first hinge discs
   (612).
        5. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 1, characterized in that each
20 locking device (7) comprises an outer connector (71), an inner connector (72), a button
   (74) and a locking block (75), wherein the outer connector (71) is fixedly arranged at the
   upper end of the corresponding bottom support rod (3), the inner connector (72) is
   arranged at the lower end of the corresponding upper support rod (3), a radial sliding
   groove (73) is formed in the inner connector (72), the locking block (75) is arranged in the
25 sliding groove (73), and a first spring is arranged between the locking block (75) and the
   interior of the sliding groove (73); and through holes are separately formed in the side
                                                 12

   walls of bottom support rods (3) and the upper support rods (3) at the lock positions, the
   locking block (75) stretches out of the corresponding through hole, the button (74) is
   arranged outside the corresponding through hole, the inner end of the button (74) is
   connected with the outer end of the locking block (75), and the locking block (75) can
 5 retract into the through hole of the corresponding bottom support rod (3) through the
   button (74).
        6. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 5, characterized in that the
   locking blocks (75) are metal parts, plastic parts (76) are arranged in the locking blocks
   (75), the plastic parts (76) are each in an 7r shape and are fastened in through holes of the
10 locking blocks (75), and the ends of the outer sides of the plastic parts (76) stretch out of
   the through holes and are each in an arc shape.
        7. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 1, characterized in that the hinge
   ports (10) are each in an L shape, and the ejection rods (2) are supported by the bottoms of
   the L-shaped hinge ports.
15      8. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 1, characterized in that the
   central ejection component (1) comprises an upper cover plate (11) and a lower bottom
   plate (12), the upper cover plate (11) and the lower bottom plate (12) are connected
   through screw fixing pipes, the upper cover plate (11) is provided with a plurality of
   arc-shaped notches (14) arranged in the radial direction, two arc-shaped connection plates
20 (15) are arranged at the position, corresponding to each arc-shaped notch, of the lower
   bottom plate (12), each hinge port (10) is formed between the two corresponding
   arc-shaped connection plates (15), and shaft holes (16) are oppositely formed in every two
   corresponding arc-shaped connection plates (15) separately.
        9. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 1, characterized in that the
25 number of the ejection rods (2) and the number of the support rods (3) are 3-6,
   furthermore, the supporting framework comprises a lateral upper rod (8) and a lateral
                                                   13

   support rod (9), the two ends of the lateral support rod (9) are supported on the ground, a
   middle protrusion is arranged on the upper portion of the lateral support rod (9), a radial
   connection port (13) is formed in the lower portion of the central ejection component (1),
   one end of the lateral upper rod (8) is arranged in the connection port (13), the other end of
 5 the lateral upper rod (8) is fastened on the middle protrusion of the lateral support rod (9)
   through a fastener (81).
        10. The tent supporting framework according to Claim 9, characterized in that an
   arc-shaped metal hook (82) is arranged at one end of the lateral upper rod (8) and fastened
   in the connection port (13).
10      11. A tent, characterized by comprising inner tent cloth and the supporting framework
   mentioned in any of Claims 1-8, wherein the inner tent cloth is fastened in the supporting
   framework through hanging buckles.
        12. A double-layer tent, characterized by comprising inner tent cloth, outer tent cloth
   and the supporting framework mentioned in any of Claims 1-10, wherein the inner tent
15 cloth is arranged in the supporting framework through hanging buckles, and the outer tent
   cloth is supported by the supporting framework and arranged outside the supporting
   framework.
                                                 14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
