                MULTI-DIMENSIONAL ADVERTISEMENT BIDDING
                                          ABSTRACT
        An online advertising system receives ads from advertisers, which may also provide
associated budgets, time period constraints, impressions goals, and performance weightings
for the ads. When an ad is requesting from the advertising system from a client, a bid may be
determined for each ad based on the budget associated the ad and/or the impressions goal
associated with the ad. Ad performance associated with the ad request may be predicted, and
a bid may be determined for each ad based on the performance weightings and the predicted
performance associated with the ad request. The bid for an ad may be weighted by the pace
of budget consumption by the ad, or by the pace of the ad progressing towards the ad's
impression goal. An ad is selected for display to the client from among the one or more ads
based on the determined bids for the ads.

                                    1/6
                                           co
                                               LO
             <         Cl)
               C:)     L   - - ---          o
                                             cnGn
                       C:                   0)
                     co
           E                                   -r9
   -9                                                     0~
a)                 a
      a),
                              Ec    -C.:C,
>)                            a<     a)      co
        _0-                      C)          S.n
        <~                                       -F     0
                              a)                    ( 0
                              >              o~)

                  MULTI-DIMENSIONAL ADVERTISEMENT BIDDING
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application is related to US Provisional Patent Application No. 13/294,052
filed 10 November 2011, International Application No. PCT/US2012/063053 titled
"Multi-dimensional advertisement bidding" and filed 1 November 2012 in the name of
Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent Application No. 2012336185 titled "Multi-dimensional
advertisement bidding" and filed 1 November 2012 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire
content of each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002]      This invention relates to optimizing advertisement bidding, and more particularly
to determining advertisement bids for advertisers based on an advertising budget and/or
weighted performance categories provided by the advertisers.
[0003]      Online services, such as social networking systems, search engines, news
aggregators, Internet shopping services, and content delivery services, have become a popular
venue for presenting advertisements to prospective buyers. Some online services provide
their services free of charge or charge only minimal fees. Instead, the online services
generate revenue by presenting advertisements ("ads") to users, who may take certain actions
based on the presented ads (e.g., clicking of the ads). The ad-based online service model has
spawned many diverse types of online services.
[0004]      Online services often use a scheme that charges ad fees commensurate with the
number of times the ads are displayed to the users or actions taken by the users in response to
viewing the ads. The pricing structure widely used in online services for assessing ad fees
includes, for example, Cost Per Impression (CPI) and Cost Per Action (CPA). The CPI
based pricing structure assesses ad fees based on the number of instances an ad is loaded and
displayed on a user's screen, typically in response to a user's request for a content item. The
CPA-based pricing structure assesses ad fees based on actions taken by the users after the ads
are displayed on the screen. The actions taken into account for the CPA-based pricing
structure may include, among others, the following: (i) clicking on the ad, (ii) registration to
the advertiser's service or product and (iii) conclusion of a sale of a service or product.
Rather than using CPI or CPA-based pricing structure, some online services charge a flat fee
for displaying an ad for a certain amount of time.
[0005]      Some online services adopt a bidding system that allows multiple advertisers to
manually bid for ad space. When an ad is required for a particular ad space, the ad with the
highest bidding price is selected and presented in the ad space to maximize the ad fees. The
                                                 -1-

bidding price may be based on CPI, CPA, or other expected revenue values. The bidding
system may also employ a cap for limiting the amount of ad fees for a set period of time (e.g.,
day or month). Manually bidding for an ad is a tedious process, requiring multiple
advertisers to track current winning bids for ads, to update bids for ads as needed, and the
like. The context of an ad may affect the value of the ad to an advertiser, and accordingly,
may affect the amount the advertiser is willing to bid for the ad. The display of an ad to a
viewer of the ad is referred to herein as an ad "impression."
                                              SUMMARY
[0006]      A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
        determining, for each of a plurality of ads, a weighting for each of a plurality of
performance categories associated with the ad, the weightings determined based on
information received from an advertiser about the advertiser's preferences for one or more of
the performance categories;
        receiving a request for an ad from a client associated with a user of an online system;
        responsive to the ad request and before sending an ad from the plurality of ads, for
each of the plurality of ads:
                retrieving historical statistics for the user from a database;
                determining a likelihood that the user performs actions associated with
        performance categories, wherein the predicted likelihood for a performance category
        is based on the retrieved historical statistics;
                determining, for each of the performance categories, an impression value for
        displaying the ad to the client, wherein the impression value of the ad for a
        performance category comprises the predicted likelihood for the performance
        category weighted by the weighting for the performance category; and
                determining, by a processor, a bid for the ad specific to the user of the ad
        request based on an aggregation of the impression values for the performance
        categories;
                selecting a received ad based on the determined bids for the received ads; and
                sending the selected ad to the user of the client for display.
[0007]      A second aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
        receiving an ad from an advertiser;
        determining, by a processor, a weighting for each of a plurality of performance
categories for the received ad, the weightings determined based on information received from
                                                    -2-

the advertiser about the advertiser's preferences for one or more of the performance
categories;
         receiving a request for an ad from a client associated with a user of an online system;
         responsive to the ad request and before sending an ad from the plurality of ads, for
each of the plurality of ads:
                 retrieving historical statistics for the user from a database;
                 determining a likelihood that the user performs actions associated with
         performance categories, wherein the predicted likelihood for a performance category
         is based on the retrieved historical statistics;
                 determining, for each of the performance categories, an impression value for
         displaying the ad to the client, where the impression value of the ad for a performance
         category comprises the predicted likelihood for the performance category weighted by
         the weighting for the performance category; and
                 determining a bid specific to the user of the ad request for the received ad
         based on an aggregation of the impression values for the performance categories.
[0008]       A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for determining an ad
bid, the method comprising:
         receiving an ad from an advertiser;
         determining, by a processor, based on information received from the advertiser about
the advertiser's preferences related to the performance of the ad, a weighting for each of a
plurality of viewer interactions with the ad, the reach of the ad, and the social context of the ad;
         receiving a request for an ad from a client associated with a user of an online system;
         responsive to the ad request and before sending an ad from the plurality of ads,
determining a bid for each of the plurality of ads, wherein determining a bid for each of the
plurality of ads comprises:
                 retrieving historical statistics for the user from a database;
                 determining a predicted likelihood that the user performs actions associated
         with interactions with the ad, the reach of the ad, and the social context of the ad,
         wherein each predicted likelihood is based on the retrieved historical statistics;
                 determining, for each of the actions associated with interactions with the ad,
         the reach of the ad and the social context of the ad, an impression value for displaying
         the ad to the user of the client, wherein each impression value of the ad comprises the
         predicted likelihood that the user performs actions associated with interactions with
                                                     -3-

        the ad, the reach of the ad, or the social context of the ad, weighted by the respective
        weighting, and
                determining a bid for the ad specific to the user of the ad request based on an
        aggregation of the impression values for the interactions with the ad, the reach of the
        ad, and the social context of the ad.
[0009]      Embodiments of the present disclosure determine a bid for an ad in response to
receiving a request for an ad from a client. An ad and associated weightings for performance
categories are received from an advertiser. A predicted ad performance is determined for the
performance categories based on the ad request. The predicted ad performance includes the
performance of an ad displayed to the requesting client. An impression value is determined
for the ad based on the predicted ad performance and the received weightings, and a bid is
determined for the ad based on the determined impression value.
[0010]      The performance categories associated with the weightings and the predicted ad
performance may include the likelihood the ad will be selected, the reach of the ad, the social
functionality of the ad, the social context of the ad, and the likelihood that a viewer of the ad
will take a particular action with regards to the ad. Predicting ad performance may require
predicting particular performance category values for an ad displayed to a client, and may
require analyzing historical data associated with the ad or the ad request.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0011]      FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating the operation of automated bidding in an
advertisement system, according to one embodiment.
[0012]      FIG. 2 is a high level block diagram of a system environment suitable for
performing budget-based bidding or bidding based on multiple goals and constraints,
according to one embodiment.
[0013]      FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating an ad database configured to receiving ads,
ad constraints and ad context goals from one or more advertisers, according to one
embodiment.
[0014]      FIG. 4 is a block diagram illustrating a bidding module configured to receive
information related to the ad and to produce a bid for the ad, according to one embodiment.
[0015]      FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating a process for selecting an ad for display based on
the ad's budget and advertiser goals, according to one embodiment.
[0016]      FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating a process for selecting an ad for display based on
ad performance weightings, according to one embodiment.
                                                   -4-

[0017]       The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of
illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion
that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be
employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Overview
[0018]       FIG. 1 is a block diagram illustrating the operation of automated bidding in an
advertisement system, according to one embodiment. In one embodiment, the advertisement
system 100 receives a request for an ad, for instance from a client. The ad system 100
determines a plurality of bids 105A-105D ("105") for a plurality of ads 1 10A-I 10D ("110").
Although only four bids 105 are shown in FIG. 1, other embodiments include any number of
bids 105, for instance thousands. Bids 105 may be determined for each of a plurality of ads,
or for a subset of the plurality. Each bid 105 is associated with a particular ad 110. The bids
are sent to an auction module 130 which selects an ad as the selected ad 135 based on the
received bids. The selected ad 135 is then sent to the client for display.
[0019]       Each ad 110 for which a bid 105 is determined includes ad content, and may
include ad constraints and ad goals. As will be discussed below, the ad 110 is provided by an
advertiser, which provides the ad content and sets the ad's constraints and goals. Ad
constraints include the ad's budget, the time period for which the ad will be displayed, and
any other constraints affecting the display of the ad 110. Ad goals include the number of
impressions desired for the ad 100 by the advertiser, and optionally include weightings for a
variety of performance categories for the ad 100 by the advertiser. As used herein,
"performance category" refers to the circumstances associated with the display of the ad,
including, for example, the likelihood the ad 110 will be clicked or selected by a viewer, the
reach of the ad 110, and the social context of the ad 110.
[0020]       The historical statistics 120 associated with the ad 110 may be retrieved and used
in determining the bid 105 for the ad 110. The historical stats 120 include the number of
times the ad 110 has been selected and/or displayed, the bids associated with previous
displays of the ad 110, the amount of budget previously used by the ad 110, the percentage of
times the ad 110 has been clicked, or any other property associated with the ad 110.
Optionally, the predicted ad performance 115 for the ad 110 is retrieved. The predicted ad
performance 115 includes, for example, the predicted likelihood the ad 110 will be clicked by
a viewer, the predicted likelihood the ad 110 will be interacted with by a viewer, the
                                                   -5-

predicted type of interaction with the ad 110, or the availability of social context for the ad
110.
[0021] The bidding module 125 may determine a bid for the ad 110 based on the ad's
constraints and goals, the historical stats 120, and the predicted ad performance 115. The
bidding module 125 will be described in greater detail below. The auction module 130
receives the plurality of bids 105 and selects an ad as the selected ad 135. The auction
module 130 may simply select the ad associated with the highest bid, or may select an ad
based on other criteria as well, such as the context of the ad, the identity of the entity
requesting the ad, or any other suitable criteria. This automated form of bidding precludes the
need for advertisers to manually submit bids for ads, instead allowing an advertiser to merely
set an ad's budget, plus other goals and constraints. Once ads and ad information are
uploaded, bids are then determined without direct or explicit action by the advertisers.
System Architecture
[0022]      FIG. 2 is a high level block diagram of a system environment suitable for
performing budget-based bidding or bidding based on multiple goals and constraints,
according to one embodiment. The system environment includes clients 210, advertisers 220,
social networking system 230 and the advertisement system 100 that communicate through a
connecting networking 200. The advertisers 220 are configured to provide ads and ad
information (such as ad budgets, other constraints, and goals) to the advertisement system
100. The clients 210 are configured to request an ad from the advertisement system 100, and
the advertisement system 100 is configured to conduct an auction among stored ads and to
select an ad based on the auction in response to receiving an ad request from a client 210.
Although three clients 210 and three advertisers 220 are shown in FIG. 2, any number of
clients 210 or advertisers 220 may communicate with the social networking system 230 and
the advertisement system 100, for example thousands or millions. It should be noted that the
advertisement system 100 may be implemented by one or more advertisers 220, or by the
social networking system 230.
[0023]      Clients 210 and advertisers 220 may communicate through the network 200 using
client devices. Client devices may include any type of device capable of sending or receiving
communications and other data to and from the social networking system 230 and the
advertisement system 100, such as a mobile phone, a laptop, a netbook, a tablet, a desktop
computer, or a television. As used herein, "client" refers to any entity which requests an ad
from the advertisement system 100, and "advertiser" refers to an entity which provides an ad
                                                  -6-

to the advertisement system 100 for subsequent display to a client. In one embodiment, the
same entity may be both a client 210 and an advertiser 220, though clients 210 and
advertisers 220 are described separately throughout the remainder of this description for the
purposes of simplicity.
[0024]       The connecting network may be the Internet, a local area network, a wireless
network, a cellular network, or any other network that allows communication between
modules. The connecting network 200 may use standard communications technologies
and/or protocols. In alternative configurations, different and/or additional modules can be
included in the system. In addition, the connecting network 200 may include a combination
of networks. For example, in the embodiment where a client 210 is a mobile phone, the
connecting network 200 may include a cellular phone wireless network which interfaces with
the Internet, allowing the mobile phone to connect with, for example, a social networking
system's web servers.
[0025]       A client 210 may request an ad from the advertisement system 100 explicitly. For
example, a client 210 may be a website accessed by a user of the website, and the website
may request an ad from the advertisement system 100 to display on the website to the user.
Alternatively, the client 210 may request an ad inexplicitly, by accessing or using a system
which in turn requests an ad. For example, the client 210 may be the user of the website, and
requesting an ad may include merely requesting access to the website. A client 210 may be a
software application or a game, and the application or game may request an ad from the
advertisement system 100 for display to a user of the application or game. For example, a
user may play a game, and the game may request an ad from the advertisement system 100 to
display in-game to the user. In one embodiment, the social networking system 230 is the
client 210, and the social networking system 230 requests an ad from the advertisement
system 100 to display to a user in a social networking system page.
[0026]       The social networking system 230 may include a web-based interface comprising
a series of inter-connected pages displaying and allowing users to interact with social
networking system objects and other users. The social networking system pages may display
information related to social networking system users, social networking system objects,
communications between users, or any other information. The social networking system 230
allows users to establish connections within the social networking system (referred to herein
as being "friends"). Social networking system data and actions taken by users in the social
networking system 230 may be stored by the social networking system 230 for later retrieval.
                                                 -7-

[0027]      Ads may include text, HTML-linked text, images, HTML-linked images, video,
audio, Adobe FlashTM, or any other digital-format. In one embodiment, ads are requested for
display within pages, such as web pages, social networking system pages, and the like. An ad
may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page, such as in a banner area at the top of the
page, in a column at the side of the page, in any portion of a page GUI, in a pop-up window,
over the top of page content, or anywhere else in a page. Ads may be displayed within an
application or within a game. Ads may be displayed in dedicated pages, requiring the user to
interact with or watch the ad before the user may access a page, utilize an application, or play
a game. A viewer may view the ad using a web browser on a computer, on a mobile device,
on a television, and the like.
[0028]      Ads may be interacted with in a variety of ways. A viewer of the ad may click on
or otherwise select the ad, and the ad may direct the viewer to a page associated with the ad.
Once on the page associated with the ad, the viewer may take additional actions, such as
purchasing a product or service associated with the ad, receiving information associated with
the ad, and subscribing to a newsletter associated with the ad. For audio and video ads, the
ads may be played by selecting a component of the ad (like a "play button"). Ads may
include games, which a viewer may play within the context of the ad. An ad may also allow
a viewer to answer a poll or question posed within the ad.
[0029]      Ads may contain social networking system functionality with which a viewer may
interact. For instance, ads may allow a viewer to "like" or otherwise endorse the ad by
selecting a button or link associated with endorsement. Likewise, a viewer may share the ad
another social network system user, or may RSVP to an event associated with a social
networking system event advertised in the ad. In addition, an ad may contain social
networking system context directed to the viewer. For example, an ad may display
information about a friend of the viewer within the social networking system who has taken
an action associated with the subject matter of the ad.
[0030]      Including social networking system functionality or context with an ad may occur
in a number of ways. For example, the advertising system 100 may retrieve social
functionality and context directly with the social networking system 230 and may combine
the ad with the retrieved functionality or context prior to serving the ad to a viewer.
Embodiments selecting and providing social networking system functionality and context
with an ad are described in co-pending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 12/898,662, titled
"Providing Social Endorsements with Online Advertising," filed on October 5, 2010 and U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 13/043,424, titled "Selecting Social Endorsement Information
                                                 -8-

for an Advertisement for Display to a Viewing User," filed on March 8, 2011, the contents of
which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Interacting with an ad containing
social networking system functionality or context may cause information about the
interaction to be displayed in the viewer's social networking system profile page.
[0031]       As illustrated in FIG. 2, the advertisement system 100 includes an interface 240,
an ad database 250, a tracking module 260, a performance prediction module 270, an
automated bidding module 280, and the auction module 130 of FIG. 1. In other
embodiments, the advertisement system 100 includes more or fewer components, and the
components may perform differing functionality than described herein.
[0032]       The interface 240 provides the communicative interface between the
advertisement system 100 and the other modules of FIG. 2. The advertisement system 100
receives ads and associated ad information from the advertisers 220 via the interface 240, and
stores the ads and ad information in the ad database 250. The advertisement system 100 also
receives requests for ads from clients 210 via the interface 240, and, in response, selects ads
to provide to the requesting clients 210 using an auction system as described herein. In one
embodiment, the advertisement system 100 optionally retrieves social networking system
information from the social networking system 230 via the interface 240 and stores this
information in the ad database 250 or provides this information to one or more clients 210
requesting an ad in conjunction with a provided ad.
[0033]       The tracking module 260 of the advertisement system 100 tracks statistics
associated with ads stored by the advertisement system 100. The tracked statistics include,
for example, the number of times an ad is provided to the client, the winning and losing bid
amounts associated with an ad for each auction, the amount of budget used and the remaining
budget for each ad, the number of total impressions for each ad, the number of impressions
required for each ad to reach an impression goal set by the advertisers, performance
information associated with the display of each ad, actions taken by viewers associated with
each ad, and any other information associated with the ads, the display of the ads, and the
goals and constraints set by the advertisers 220.
[0034]       The performance prediction module 270 predicts or determines the performance
of an ad displayed in response to an ad request. In one embodiment, the performance
prediction module 270 determines the website, application, game, or other setting in which a
requested ad will appear. The performance prediction module 270 may determine the content
of the setting in a requested ad will appear. The performance prediction module 270 may
also predict information related to the viewer of a requested ad, such as the viewer's age,
                                                   -9-

location, education, job, or any other biographic information related to the viewer. The
performance prediction module 270 may predict the diversity or scope of a viewing audience
for a requested ad. For example, the performance prediction module 270 may predict that the
viewer of a requested ad may live anywhere in the United States, may be of any
socioeconomic background, or may have any educational background. Alternatively, the
performance prediction module 270 may predict that the viewer of a requested ad lives in a
very specific region of the United States, may be of a particular socioeconomic background,
and may have a particular education.
[0035]      The performance prediction module 270 may determine that a requested ad
includes available social context. Likewise, the performance prediction module 270 may
determine that a requested ad includes potential for social context dependent upon the
identity of the viewer of the requested ad, and may predict the likelihood that the requested
ad includes social context when displayed to the viewer.
[0036]      The performance prediction module 270 may predict the likelihood that a viewer
of a requested ad takes a particular action with regards to the requested ad. In one
embodiment, the performance prediction module 270 predicts the likelihood that a viewer
will click on or otherwise select a requested ad. In another embodiment, the performance
prediction module 270 predicts the likelihood that a viewer will share, "like" or otherwise
endorse the ad within the context of a social networking system. The performance prediction
module 270 may predict the likelihood that a viewer will watch a requested ad, play a
requested ad, answer a question or survey posed in a requested ad, make a purchase in
conjunction with the requested ad, or any other action which a viewer may take with regards
to a requested ad.
[0037]      The automated bidding module 280 is configured to produce bids for one or more
ads stored in the ad database 250 in response to receiving a request for an ad from a client
210. In one embodiment, the automated bidding module 280 produces a bid for each ad
stored in the ad database 250. Alternatively, the automated bidding module 280 may produce
a bid for each ad stored in the ad database 250 with unused budget, or for each ad that has not
reach the ad's impression goal. As discussed below, the automated bidding module 280 may
determine bids based on the ad request, ad content, ad budgets or other ad constraints, ad
impression goals, ad performance weightings, social networking system ad functionality or
ad context, the statistics associated with ads received from the tracking module 260, the
predicted ad performance received from the performance prediction module 270, or any other
factor associated with the ad, the requesting client 210 or the requesting ad viewer.
                                                 - 10 -

Advertisement database
[0038]      FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating an ad database configured to receive ads, ad
constraints and ad context goals from one or more advertisers, according to one embodiment.
Although only three advertisers 220 are illustrated in FIG. 3, it should be noted that any
number of advertisers may upload ads to the ad database 250. The ad database 250 includes a
database interface 300, an ad content storage module 310, an ad constraints storage module
320, and an ad goals storage module 330. In other embodiments, the ad database 250 may
include more or fewer components, and the storage modules 310, 320, and 330 may be
combined into a single storage module.
[0039]      The database interface 300 provides the communicative interface between the
advertisers 220 and the ad database 250. In one embodiment, the database interface 300 is
the interface 240. The database interface 300 receives ads, ad constraints and ad goals from
the advertisers 220 and stores them in the ad content storage module 310, the ad constraints
storage module 320 and the ad goals storage module 330, respectively.
[0040]      The database interface 300 may include a user interface (UI) which advertisers
may use in uploading ads, and setting ad constraints and ad goals. The UI may include ad
templates, which allow advertisers 220 to create ads or modify the content of existing ads.
For example, an advertiser 220 may use the UI to modify an ad designed for a computer web
browser to optimize the ad for display on a mobile phone. The UI may also include sliders or
other interface tools to allow advertisers 220 to set an ad's budget or impression goals, to
associate the ad with a particular campaign, to weight the ad's performance weightings, to
suggest ad goals based on the content of the ad, and the like.
[0041]      The ad content storage module 310 stores the ads uploaded by the advertisers 220.
The ad content storage module 310 may store the ads in the format uploaded by the
advertisers 220, or may alter the format as needed. The ad content storage module 310 may
also store meta data associated with the ads, such as the subject matter of the ads, companies
or products associated with the ads, and information describing the relatedness between ads
(for example, the ads associated with a particular ad campaign).
[0042]      The ad content storage module 310 may include associated social networking
system functionality or context received from the social networking system 230. For
example, if an social context was retrieved for an ad stored in the ad content storage module
310, the social context may be stored in the ad content storage module 310 in association
with the ad for future retrieval. The ad content storage module 310 may include historical
                                                - 11 -

statistics associated with stored ads. For example, the ad content storage module 310 may
store the number of times
[0043]       The ad constraints storage module 320 stores constraints associated with stored
ads. In one embodiment, each ad stored in the ad content storage module 310 is associated
with a set of ad constraints stored in the ad constraints storage module 320. Ad constraints
include ad budgets. Advertisers may set a budget for each individual ad, for example
$10,000. Alternatively, advertisers may set a budget for an ad campaign, and each ad
associated with the campaign is subject to the campaign budget. The ad constraints storage
module 320 may also store the remaining budget associated with each ad. For example, each
time an ad is selected and displayed to a viewer, the cost of displaying the ad may be
subtracted from the ad's budget, and the remaining budget balance may be stored in the ad
constraints storage module 320. In addition, the ad constraints storage module 320 may store
the costs associated with each display of an ad. This beneficially allows advertisers 220 to
track the costs of each ad display.
[0044]       The ad constraints storage module 320 may also store a time period associated
with each ad. Advertisers 220 when uploading ads to the ad database 250 may indicate the
time period an uploaded ad is to run (the time period the ad is eligible for display). For
example, an advertiser may indicate that a particular ad may be displayed during a first time
period, or may indicate that ads for a particular ad campaign may be displayed during a
second time period.
[0045]       The ad goals storage module 330 stores goals associated with stored ads. In one
embodiment, each ad stored in the ad content storage module 310 is associated with a set of
ad goals stored in the ad goals storage module 330. Ad goals include target ad impression
goals. An advertiser 220 sets the ad impression goals for each uploaded to the ad database
250. The ad impression goal associated with an ad is the number of impressions the
advertiser 220 wants the ad to obtain. An advertiser 220 may also set a single ad impression
goal for all of the ads associated with an ad campaign.
[0046]       Ad goals may also include performance weightings for a variety of ad
performance categories. An advertiser 220 may set the performance weightings for an ad to
indicate the desired performance for the ad. Performance categories include the likelihood
that an ad will be clicked ("clicks"), the reach of the ad (the diversity, size, and scope of the
viewing audience) ("reach"), the presence of social networking system functionality or
context within the ad ("social"), the likelihood of interactions with the ad ("interaction"), or
any other factor associated with the display of the ad or the ad's audience.
                                                 - 12 -

[0047]       Performance weightings are received from an advertiser 220. In one embodiment,
the weights associated with each performance weighting are coefficients on the interval [0.0,
1.0]. The sum of the performance weightings associated with an ad may be 1.0, or may be
any other number. For example, an advertiser 220 may set the weightings for an ad at .6
clicks, .2 reach, .1 social, and .1 interaction. Alternatively, an advertiser 220 may set the
weightings for an ad at 0.0 clicks, 0.0 reach, 1.0 social and 1.0 interaction. An advertiser 220
may provide variable sets of weightings based on the amount of time remaining in a set time
period for the display of an ad, an amount of budget remaining for the ad, or any other factor.
In one embodiment, the ad database 250 recommends weightings for an advertiser 220 based
on an ad's content, goals, constraints, or any other factor.
Advertisement bidding
[0048]       FIG. 4 is a block diagram illustrating a bidding module configured to receive
information related to the ad and to produce a bid for the ad, according to one embodiment.
As illustrated in FIG. 4, the bidding module 125 includes an impression value module 400, an
impression value weight module 410, a pacing value module 420, a pacing value weight
module 430, and a bid balance module 450. In various other embodiments, fewer or
additional modules are included in the bidding module 125, and the functionalities of the
modules in the bidding module 125 may be combined and/or different than described herein.
[0049]       The impression value module 400 determines the potential value of an impression
of an ad ("Vi") to the advertiser 220 associated with the ad, and provides Vi to the bid balance
module 450. For example, the impression value module 400 may determine that a particular
impression for a particular ad is worth $1.50 to the advertiser that uploaded the ad. The
impression value module 400 may determine Vi based on any suitable criteria. For example,
Vi may be based on the setting of the impression, the historical value of the impression, the
time or date of the impression, the identity of the entity requesting an ad, or any other suitable
criteria.
[0050]       The impression value module 400 may determine Vi based on the predicted
performance 440 of the impression. The predicted performance 440 is received from, for
example, the performance prediction module 270. In one embodiment, the predicted
performance categories include clicks (the predicted likelihood the ad will be selected), reach
(the predicted reach of the ad), social (the presence of social functionality or context in the
ad), and/or interaction (the predicted likelihood of particular interactions with the ad). Vi may
be determined based on a pre-determined weighting of predicted performance categories.
                                                 - 13 -

Alternatively, the predicted performance categories may be weighted based on the setting of
the impression, the identity of the requesting entity, or any other suitable criteria. In one
embodiment, the predicted performance categories include probabilities on the interval [0.0,
1.0]. For example, if the impression value module 400 determines that a viewer is 45% likely
to click on an ad, the clicks predicted performance category is .45. Certain predicted
performance categories, for example social, may include either a 0 value or a 1 value
depending on whether or not an ad or impression contains social functionality or context.
[0051]      The impression value module 400 may determine the potential value of an
impression of an ad based on a combination of the predicted performance 440 and
performance weightings 442 received from advertisers 220 for ads stored in the ad database
250. As discussed above, an advertiser 220 may weight ad performance categories based on
the importance of the categories to the advertiser 220 for the ad, the demographic group
targeted by the advertiser 220 for the ad, the advertising strategy of the advertiser 220 for the
ad, or based on any other suitable factor. For example, an advertiser 220 may assign the
clicks, reach, social, and interaction performance weightings ".4", ".1", ".25", and ".25",
respectively.
[0052]      In one embodiment, the impression value module 400 determines Vi by summing
the products of each performance weighting and the associated predicted performance value
for a particular performance category, for each performance category for which an advertiser
220 provides a weighting, and multiplying the sum by the value of an ad to the advertiser
220. The value of an ad to an advertiser 220 may be the value of the ad in an optimal context
(a context where each predicted performance category associated with a non-zero weighting
is 1.0). Alternatively, the sum is multiplied by a different ad valuation, such as a valuation
provided by an advertiser 220, a pre-determined valuation, a valuation based on the identity
of the requesting entity, or any other fact. Consider an example using the .4 clicks/. 1
reach/.25 social/.25 interactions weighting example above, and using the predicted
performance values .7 clicks (representing a 70% chance the impression will be selected)/.3
reach (representing some measure of audience reach determined by the context prediction
module 270)/0 social (representing no social functionality or context in the impression)/.6
(representing a 60% likelihood of a particular action being taken). In this example, the sum
of the products of the performance weightings and the associated predicted performance
values is .4*.7+.1*.3+.25*0+.25*.6     = .46. This is multiplied by the value of the ad in an
optimal context, which may be provided by the advertiser 220 or may be determined
                                                - 14  -

independently. Assuming the value of the ad in this example in an optimal context is $2.00,
Vi is determined to be $2.00*.46, or $0.92.
[0053]       Vi may be optionally weighted based on time information 444 for the ad and
budget information 446 for the ad. The impression value weight module 410 receives the
time information 444 and budget information 446 from the ad database 250 and the tracking
module 260, and provides an impression value weight Ai to the bid balance module 450. The
time information 444 may include the total time period for which an ad is to run, the
remaining amount of time in the time period for the ad to run, the remaining proportion of
time in the time period for the ad to run, or any other factor related to the time period of an
ad. The budget information 446 may include the total budget for an ad, the remaining
amount of budget for the ad, the remaining proportion of budget for the ad, or any other
factor related to ad budget.
[0054]       The impression value weight module 410 may determine Ai based on the
remaining proportion of budget left for an ad and the remaining proportion of time left for an
ad. In one embodiment, the impression value weight module 410 determines At to be the
ratio of the remaining proportion of budget to the remaining proportion of time for an ad. For
example, if 50% of the budget for an ad remains and 50% of the time period for an ad
remains, Ai is determined to be 1. Likewise, if 80% of the budget for an ad remains, and 20%
of the time period for an ad remains, Ai is determined to be 4, and if 30% of the budget for an
ad remains and 75% of the time period for an ad remains, At is determined to be .4. The
impression value weight module 410 may limit the interval in which Ai may be determined,
for instance to the interval [0.0, 2.0]. It should be noted that the impression value weight
module 410 may determine Ai in ways other than those discussed herein.
[0055]       The pacing value module 420 determines the potential value to an advertiser 220
of displaying an ad based on the pace of the impressions of the ad, and provides this value to
the bid balance module 450. The pacing value, V,, is based on the budget information 446
and the impression information 448 received by the pacing value module 420 from the ad
database 250 and the tracking module 260. The impression information 448 may include the
impression goal set by an advertiser 220, the total number of impressions of the ad, the total
number of remaining impressions of the ad until the impression goal is met, the proportion of
remaining impressions until the impression goal is met, or any other factor related to ad
impressions.
[0056]       In one embodiment, the budget information 446 includes the amount of budget
remaining for the ad, and the impression information 448 includes the amount of impressions
                                                 - 15 -

remaining for the ad (for example, the impressions goal minus the total impressions so far for
the ad). The pacing value module 420 may determine V, to be the ratio of the remaining
budget to the remaining impressions. For example, if the unspent budget for an ad is
$10,000, and if the number of impressions remaining to reach the ad's impression goal is
20,000, the pacing value module 420 may determine Vp to be $0.50.
[0057]      V, may be optionally weighted based on time information 444 for the ad and
impression information 448 for the ad. The pacing value weight module 430 receives the
time information 444 and impression information 448 from the ad database 250 and the
tracking module 260, and provides a pacing value weight Ap to the bid balance module 450.
The pacing value weight module 430 may determine Ap based the remaining proportion of
impressions left for an ad and the remaining proportion of time left for an ad. In one
embodiment, the pacing value weight module 430 determines Ap to be the ratio of the
remaining proportion of impressions to the remaining proportion of time for an ad. For
example, if 75% of the impressions goal for an ad remains and 25% of the time period for an
ad remains, A is determined to be 3. Likewise, if 10% of the impressions goal for an ad
remains, and 90% of the time period for an ad remains, A, is determined to be .111. Similarly
to the impression value weight module 410, the pacing value weight module 430 may limit Ap
to a particular interval. It should be noted that the pacing value weight module 430 may
determine A, in ways other than those discussed herein.
[0058]      The bid balance module 450 determines a bid 460 for the ad, and outputs the bid
460 to the auction module 130. The bid balance module 450 may receive any of the
impression value Vi, the impression value weight Ai, the pacing value V., and the pacing
value weight Ap, and may use these values to determine the bid 460. In one embodiment, the
bid balance module 460 determines the value of the bid 460 to be the sum Vi *Ai + VP *A,.
Alternatively, the bid balance module 460 may determine the value of the bid 460 based only
on Vi and Ai. In one embodiment, an advertiser 220 may not provide an impression goal for
an ad, and the bid 460 is determined to be Vi *Ai. Any other method of determining a bid 460
based on the information received by or the factors computed by the bidding module 125.
[0059]      In the embodiments described above, Ai and Ap are determined independently of
each other. In an alternative embodiment, Ai and Ap are determined together. For example,
Ai and A, may be determined such that Ai *Ap = k, where k is any non-zero constant, such as
1.0. Alternatively, Ai and A, may be determined such that Ai + A, = k. Computing At and Ap
together beneficially helps balance an ad's budget and impressions goal. For example, if rate
of consuming an ad's budget exceeds the rate of progressing towards the ad's impressions
                                                 - 16 -

goal, then the value Ai may be lowered while the value A,, is raised. The converse is also true
-- if Ai is raise, then A,, may be lowered in response.
Operation
[0060]         FIG. 5 is a flowchart illustrating a process for selecting an ad for display based on
the ad's budget and goals, according to one embodiment. An ad and an associated ad budget
and ad goals are received 500 from a plurality of advertisers. The ads, ad budgets, and ad
goals may be stored in an ad database. In one embodiment, the ads, ad budgets, and ad goals
are received and stored ahead of time for subsequent retrieval by the method of FIG. 5. Ad
goals include a target number of impressions for the ad, for instance over a particular time
period for which the ad may be displayed.
[0061]         An ad request is received 510 from a client. In response to receiving the ad
request, the remaining ad budget and the pacing of the ad goals are determined 520 for each
of a plurality of ads. For example, a particular ad may have $5000 of remaining budget and
may have reached 60% of the ad's impression goal; this information is determined for each of
a set of ads for which bids are to be determined. A bid is determined 530 for each of the
plurality of ads based on the determined remaining budget and impression goal pacing for the
ad. The bids may additionally be determined based on other ad goals, as discussed in the
method of FIG. 6. An ad is then selected 540 based on the determined bids. For example, a
traditional auction may be implemented to select the highest determined bid, and the ad
associated with the highest bid is selected for display to the requesting client.
[0062]         FIG. 6 is a flowchart illustrating a process for selecting an ad for display based on
ad performance weightings, according to one embodiment. An ad and associated ad
performance weightings are received 600 from one or more advertisers. Performance
weightings include weightings for performance categories, such as the likelihood that the ad
will be selected, the reach of the ad, the presence of social networking system functionality or
context in the ad, and the likelihood that a viewer will interact with the ad in a particular way.
Performance weightings may be provided by the advertisers in the form of values for
performance categories, indicating the importance of each category to the advertiser for the
ad. The ads and performance weightings may be received and stored ahead of time for
subsequent retrieval by the method of FIG. 6.
[0063]         An ad request is received 610 from a client. In response to receiving the ad
request, the predicted performance associated with the ad request is determined 620. In one
embodiment, determining the predicted performance for an ad request includes predicting
                                                    - 17 -

values for various performance categories, such as the likelihood that the ad will be selected.
The value of the ad impression associated with the ad request for an ad is determined 630
based on the predicted ad performance and the performance weightings associated with the
ad. In one embodiment, the values representing predicted ad performance categories are
multiplied by associated values representing performance weightings for each category, and
the resulting products are summed to determine the value of the ad impression. A bid is then
determined 640 for the ad based on the determined value of the ad impression associated with
the ad request for the ad.
Further Embodiments
[0064]      One embodiment provides a method comprising:
        receiving, from an advertiser for each of a plurality of ads, a weighting for each of a
plurality of performance categories associated with the ad;
        receiving a request for an ad from a client;
        determining a predicted ad performance associated with the ad request, the predicted
ad performance comprising a prediction of the performance of an ad displayed to the client
for the plurality of performance categories;
        for each of one or more of the ads:
        determining an impression value for the ad based on the weightings associated with
the ad and the predict ad performance associated with the ad request, and
        determining a bid for the received ad based on the determined impression value for
the received ad;
        selecting a received ad based on the determined bids for the received ads; and
        sending the selected ad for display to the client.
[0065]      Another embodiment provides a method comprising:
        receiving an ad from an advertiser;
        receiving a weighting for each of a plurality of performance categories from the
advertiser for the received ad;
        receiving a request for an ad from a client;
        determining a predicted ad performance associated with the ad request, the predicted
ad performance comprising a prediction of the performance of an ad displayed to the
requesting client for the plurality of performance categories;
        determining an impression value for the received ad based on the weightings for the
received ad and the predicted ad performance; and
                                                - 18 -

        determining a bid for the received ad based on the determined impression value for
the received ad.
[0066]      In one arrangement, receiving a request for an ad from a client comprises
receiving a request for an ad at a web server in response to the client requesting a web page.
[0067]      In one arrangement, receiving a request comprises receiving a request for an ad
from an application in response to an interaction with the application with a user of the
application.
[0068]      In one arrangement, the plurality of performance categories comprises at least the
likelihood that the ad will be selected.
[0069]      In one arrangement, the plurality of performance categories comprises at least the
reach of the ad.
[0070]      In one arrangement, the plurality of performance categories comprises at least the
presence of social networking system functionality or context within the ad.
[0071]      In one arrangement, the plurality of performance categories comprises at least the
likelihood that a viewer of the ad will take a particular action with regards to the ad.
[0072]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        receiving, from each of a plurality of advertisers, an ad and a set of performance
weightings associated with the ad; and
        storing the received ads and performance weightings.
[0073]      In one arrangement, the predicted ad performance associated with the ad request is
determined based on historical data associated with the ad request or the ad.
[0074]      In one arrangement, the predicted ad performance comprises one value for each of
the plurality of categories, and wherein each value is within the interval [0.0, 1.0].
[0075]      In one arrangement, determining an impression value for the ad comprises:
        for each of the one or more performance categories, multiplying a predicted
performance value associated with the category by a performance weighting associated with
the category to determine an ad performance product;
        adding the ad performance products to determine an ad performance product sum; and
        determining an impression value for the ad based on the determined ad performance
product sum.
[0076]      In one arrangement, determining a bid further comprises:
        determining an impression value weight based on a budget for the ad;
        weighting the impression value with the determined impression value weight; and
        determining a bid based on the weighted impression value.
                                                - 19 -

[0077]      In one arrangement, determining a bid further comprises:
        determining a pacing value based on an impressions goal for the ad; and
        combining the impression value and the pacing value; and
        determining a bid based on the combined impression value and pacing value.
[0078]      In one arrangement, the method further comprising:
        determining a pacing value weight based on a remaining proportion of impressions
required to reach the ad's impression goal relative to the impressions goal and a remaining
proportion of time for the ad;
        weighting the pacing value with the determined impression value weight; and
        determining a bid based on the combined impression value and the weighted pacing
value.
[0079]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        determining a bid for each of a plurality of ads; and
        selecting an ad for display to a client from the plurality of ads based on the determined
bids for the plurality of ads.
[0080]      In one arrangement, selecting an ad for display comprises selecting the ad
associated with a highest determined bid.
[0081]      A further embodiment provides a method for determining an ad bid, the method
comprising:
        receiving an ad from an advertiser;
        receiving from the advertiser for the received ad a weighting for each of viewer
interactions with the ad, the reach of the ad, and the social context of the ad;
        receiving a request for an ad from a client;
        determining a bid for the received ad, wherein determining a bid for the received ad
comprises:
        determining a predicted ad performance for the received ad, wherein the predicted ad
performance comprises values representing each of a predicted likelihood that a viewer of the
ad will interact with the act, a predicted reach of the ad, and the availability of social context
for the ad,
        determining an impression value for the received ad based on the products of the
weighting for viewer interactions with the ad and the predicted likelihood that a view of the
ad will interact with the act, the weighting for the reach of the ad and the predicted reach of
the ad, and the weighting for the social context of the ad and the availability of social context
for the ad, and
                                                  - 20 -

        determining a bid based on the determined impression value for the received ad.
[0082]      In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        determining a bid for each of a plurality of ads; and
        selecting an ad for display to the client from the plurality of ads based on the
determined bids for the plurality of ads.
[0083]      In one arrangement, selecting an ad for display comprises selecting the ad
associated with a highest determined bid.
Summary
[0084]      The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented
for the purpose of illustration; it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to
the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many
modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.
[0085]      Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in
terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These
algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data
processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art.
These operations, while described functionally, computationally, or logically, are understood
to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits, microcode, or the
like. Furthermore, it has also proven convenient at times, to refer to these arrangements of
operations as modules, without loss of generality. The described operations and their
associated modules may be embodied in software, firmware, hardware, or any combinations
thereof.
[0086]      Any of the steps, operations, or processes described herein may be performed or
implemented with one or more hardware or software modules, alone or in combination with
other devices. In one embodiment, a software module is implemented with a computer
program product comprising a computer-readable medium containing computer program
code., which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps,
operations, or processes described.
[0087]      Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the
operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes,
and/or it may comprise a general-purpose computing device selectively activated or
reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may
be stored in a non-transitory, tangible computer readable storage medium, or any type of
                                                  - 21 -

media suitable for storing electronic instructions, which may be coupled to a computer
system bus. Furthermore, any computing systems referred to in the specification may include
a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for
increased computing capability.
[0088]      Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a
computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting
from a computing process, where the information is stored on a non-transitory, tangible
computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program
product or other data combination described herein.
[0089]      Finally, the language used in the specification has been principally selected for
readability and instructional purposes, and it may not have been selected to delineate or
circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the
invention be limited not by this detailed description, but rather by any claims that issue on an
application based hereon. Accordingly, the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is
intended to be illustrative, but not limiting, of the scope of the invention, which is set forth in
the following claims.
                                                  - 22 -

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1.      A method comprising:
        determining, for each of a plurality of ads, a weighting for each of a plurality of
performance categories associated with the ad, the weightings determined based on
information received from an advertiser about the advertiser's preferences for one or more of
the performance categories;
        receiving a request for an ad from a client associated with a user of an online system;
        responsive to the ad request and before sending an ad from the plurality of ads, for
each of the plurality of ads:
                retrieving historical statistics for the user from a database;
                determining a likelihood that the user performs actions associated with
        performance categories, wherein the predicted likelihood for a performance category
        is based on the retrieved historical statistics;
                determining, for each of the performance categories, an impression value for
        displaying the ad to the client, wherein the impression value of the ad for a
        performance category comprises the predicted likelihood for the performance
        category weighted by the weighting for the performance category; and
                determining, by a processor, a bid for the ad specific to the user of the ad
        request based on an aggregation of the impression values for the performance
        categories;
        selecting a received ad based on the determined bids for the received ads; and
        sending the selected ad to the user of the client for display.
        2.      A method comprising:
        receiving an ad from an advertiser;
        determining, by a processor, a weighting for each of a plurality of performance
categories for the received ad, the weightings determined based on information received from
the advertiser about the advertiser's preferences for one or more of the performance
categories;
        receiving a request for an ad from a client associated with a user of an online system;
        responsive to the ad request and before sending an ad from the plurality of ads, for
each of the plurality of ads:
                retrieving historical statistics for the user from a database;
                                                   - 23 -

                determining a likelihood that the user performs actions associated with
        performance categories, wherein the predicted likelihood for a performance category
        is based on the retrieved historical statistics;
                determining, for each of the performance categories, an impression value for
        displaying the ad to the client, where the impression value of the ad for a performance
        category comprises the predicted likelihood for the performance category weighted by
        the weighting for the performance category; and
                determining a bid specific to the user of the ad request for the received ad
        based on an aggregation of the impression values for the performance categories.
        3.      The method of claim 2, wherein receiving a request for an ad from a client
comprises receiving a request for an ad at a web server in response to the client requesting a
web page.
        4.      The method of either one of claim 2 and claim 3, wherein receiving a request
comprises receiving a request for an ad from an application in response to an interaction with
the application with a user of the application.
        5.      The method of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the plurality of performance
categories comprises at least the likelihood that the ad will be selected.
        6.      The method of any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the plurality of performance
categories comprises at least the reach of the ad.
        7.      The method of any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the plurality of performance
categories comprises at least the presence of social networking system functionality or
context within the ad.
        8.      The method of any one of claims 2 to 7, wherein the plurality of performance
categories comprises at least the likelihood that a viewer of the ad will take a particular action
with regards to the ad.
                                                  - 24 -

         9.      The method of any one of claims 2 to 8, wherein the predicted ad performance
associated with the ad request is determined based on historical data associated with the ad
request or the ad.
         10.     The method of any one of claims 2 to 9, wherein the predicted ad performance
comprises one value for each of the plurality of categories, and wherein each value is within
the interval [0.0, 1.0].
          11.    The method of any one of claims 2 to 10, wherein determining an impression
value for a performance category further comprises multiplying the predicted ad performance
value for the performance category by the weighting of the performance category.
         12.     The method of any one of claims 2 to 11, wherein determining a bid further
comprises:
         determining a pacing value based on an impressions goal for the ad; and
         determining the bid based on the pacing value combined with the aggregation of the
impression values for the performance categories.
         13.     The method of claim 12, further comprising:
         determining a pacing value weight based on a remaining proportion of impressions
required to reach the ad's impression goal relative to the impressions goal and a remaining
proportion of time for the ad; and
         determining the bid based on the weighted pacing value.
         14.     The method of any one of claims 2 to 13, further comprising:
         determining a bid for each of a plurality of ads; and
         selecting an ad for display to a client from the plurality of ads based on the determined
bids for the plurality of ads.
         15.     A method for determining an ad bid, the method comprising:
         receiving an ad from an advertiser;
         determining, by a processor, based on information received from the advertiser about
the advertiser's preferences related to the performance of the ad, a weighting for each of a
plurality of viewer interactions with the ad, the reach of the ad, and the social context of the ad;
                                                   - 25 -

        receiving a request for an ad from a client associated with a user of an online system;
        responsive to the ad request and before sending an ad from the plurality of ads,
determining a bid for each of the plurality of ads, wherein determining a bid for each of the
plurality of ads comprises:
                retrieving historical statistics for the user from a database;
                determining a predicted likelihood that the user performs actions associated
        with interactions with the ad, the reach of the ad, and the social context of the ad,
        wherein each predicted likelihood is based on the retrieved historical statistics;
                determining, for each of the actions associated with interactions with the ad,
        the reach of the ad and the social context of the ad, an impression value for displaying
        the ad to the user of the client, wherein each impression value of the ad comprises the
        predicted likelihood that the user performs actions associated with interactions with
        the ad, the reach of the ad or the social context of the ad, weighted by the respective
        weighting, and
                determining a bid for the ad specific to the user of the ad request based on an
        aggregation of the impression values for the interactions with the ad, the reach of the
        ad, and the social context of the ad.
         16.    The method of claim 15, further comprising:
        determining a bid for each of a plurality of ads; and
        selecting an ad for display to the client from the plurality of ads based on the
determined bids for the plurality of ads.
         17.    The method of claim 16, wherein selecting an ad for display comprises
selecting the ad associated with a highest determined bid.
                                       Facebook, Inc.
                               By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                    QCOTTERS
                                  Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys
                                                   - 26 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
