                                         ABSTRACT
        The invention provides for methods and materials to decellularize a solid organ and to
recellularize such a decellularized organ to thereby generate a solid organ.

WO 2007/025233                                                            PCT/US2006/033415
                         DECELLULARIZATION AND
      RECELLULARIZATION OF ORGANS AND TISSUES
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
              This invention relates to organs and tissues, and more particularly to
  5  methods and materials for decellularizing and recellularizing organs and tissues.
                                       BACKGROUND
              Biologically derived matrices have been developed for tissue engineering
     and regeneration. The matrices developed to date, however, generally have a
 10  compromised matrix structure and/or do not exhibit a vascular bed that allows
     for effective reconstitution of the organ or tissue. This disclosure describes
     methods for decellularization and recellularization of organs and tissues.
                                          SUMMARY
              The invention provides for methods and materials to decellularize an
 15  organ or tissue as well as methods and materials to recellularize a decellularized
     organ or tissue.
              In one aspect, the invention provides for a decellularized mammalian
     heart. A decellularized mammalian heart includes a decellularized extracellular
     matrix of the heart that has an exterior surface. The extracellular matrix of a
20   decellularized heart substantially retains the morphology of the extracellular
     matrix prior to decellularization, and the exterior surface of the extracellular
     matrix is substantially intact.
              Representative hearts include but are not limited to rodent hearts, pig
     hearts, rabbit hearts, bovine hearts, sheep hearts, or canine hearts. Another
25  representative heart is a human heart. The decellularized heart can be cadaveric.
    In some embodiment, the decellularized heart is a portion of an entire heart. For
     example, a portion of an entire heart can include, without limitation, a cardiac
    patch, an aortic valve, a mitral valve, a pulmonary valve, a tricuspid valve, a
    right atrium, a left atrium, a right ventricle, a left ventricle, septum, coronary
30  vasculature, a pulmonary artery, or a pulmonary vein.

WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
               In another aspect, the invention provides for a solid organ. A solid organ
      as described herein includes the decellularized heart described above and a
      population of regenerative cells attached thereto. In some embodiments, the
      regenerative cells are pluripotent cells. In some embodiment, the regenerative
 5    cells are embryonic stem cells, umbilical cord cells, adult-derived stem or
      progenitor cells, bone marrow-derived cells, blood-derived cells, mesenchymal
      stem cells (MSC), skeletal muscle-derived cells, multipotent adult progenitor
      cells (MAPC), cardiac stem cells (CSC), or multipotent adult cardiac-derived
      stem cells. In some embodiments, the regenerative cells are cardiac fibroblasts,
10    cardiac microvasculature cells, or aortic endothelial cells.
               Generally, the number of the regenerative cells attached to the
      decellularized heart is at least about 1,000. In some embodiments, the number of
      the regenerative cells attached to the decellularized heart is about 1,000 cells/mg
      tissue (wet weight; i.e., pre-decellularized weight) to about 10,000,000 cells/mg
15    tissue (wet weight). In some embodiments, the regenerative cells are
      heterologous to the decellularized heart. Also in some embodiments, the solid
      organ is to be transplanted into a patient and the regenerative cells are
      autologous to the patient.
              In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method of making a solid
20    organ. Such a method generally includes providing a decellularized heart as
     described herein, and contacting the decellularized heart with a population of
     regenerative cells under conditions in which the regenerative cells engraft,
     multiply and/or differentiate within and on the decellularized heart. In one
     embodiment, the regenerative cells are injected or perfused into the
25   decellularized heart.
              In still another aspect, the invention provides for a method of
     decellularizing a heart. Such a method includes providing a heart, cannulating
     the heart at one or more than one cavity, vessel, and/or duct to produce a
     cannulated heart, and perfusing the cannulated heart with a first cellular
30   disruption medium via the one or more than one cannulations. For example, the
     perfusion can be multi-directional from each cannulated cavity, vessel, and/or
     duct. Typically, the cellular disruption medium comprises at least one detergent
     such as SDS, PEG, or Triton X.
                                             2

WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
              Such a method also can include perfusing the cannulated heart with a
      second cellular disruption medium via the more than one cannulations.
      Generally, the first cellular disruption medium can be an anionic detergent such
      as SDS and the second cellular disruption medium can be an ionic detergent such
  5   as Triton X. In such methods, the perfusing can be for about 2 to 12 hours per
      gram (wet weight) of heart tissue.
              Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein
      have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the
      art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or
 10   equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the
     present invention, suitable methods and materials are described below. In
      addition, the materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not
      intended to be limiting. All publications, patent applications, patents, and other
     references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In
 15   case of conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control.
              The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in
     the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects,
     and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the drawings and detailed
     description, and from the claims.
20                             DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
              Figure 1 is a schematic showing the initial preparation for the
     decellularization of a heart. The aorta, pulmonary artery, and superior caval vein
     are cannulated (A, B, C, respectively), and the inferior caval vein,
     brachiocephalic artery, left common carotid artery, and left subclavian artery are
25   ligated. Arrows indicate the direction of perfusion in antegrade and retrograde.
              Figure 2 is a schematic of one embodiment of a decellularization /
     recellularization apparatus.
              Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
30            Solid organs generally have three main components, the extracellular
    matrix (ECM), cells embedded therein, and a vasculature bed. Decellularization
    of a solid organ as described herein removes most or all of the cellular
                                             3

 WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
      components while substantially preserving the extracellular matrix (ECM) and
      the vasculature bed. A decellularized solid organ then can be used as a scaffold
      for recellularization. Mammals from which solid organs can be obtained
      include, without limitation, rodents, pigs, rabbits, cattle, sheep, dogs, and
  5   humans. Organs and tissues used in the methods described herein can be
      cadaveric.
               Solid organs as referred to herein include, without limitation, heart, liver,
      lungs, skeletal muscles, brain, pancreas, spleen, kidneys, uterus, and bladder. A
      solid organ as used herein refers to an organ that has a "substantially closed"
 10   vasculature system. A "substantially closed" vasculature system with respect to
      an organ means that, upon perfusion with a liquid, the majority of the liquid is
      contained within the solid organ and does not leak out of the solid organ,
      assuming the major vessels are cannulated, ligated, or otherwise restricted.
      Despite having a "substantially closed" vasculature system, many of the solid
 15   organs listed above have defined "entrance" and "exit" vessels which are useful
      for introducing and moving the liquid throughout the organ during perfusion.
              In addition to the solid organs described above, other types of
      vascularized organs or tissues such as, for example, all or portions ofjoints (e.g.,
      knees, shoulders, or hips), trachea, or spinal cord can be decellularized using the
20   methods disclosed herein. Further, the methods disclosed herein also can be
     used to decellularize avascular tissues such as, for example, cartilage or cornea.
              A decellularized organ or tissue as described herein (e.g., heart or liver)
     or any portion thereof (e.g., an aortic valve, a mitral valve, a pulmonary valve, a
     tricuspid valve, a pulmonary vein, a pulmonary artery, coronary vasculature,
25   septum, a right atrium, a left atrium, a right ventricle, or a left ventricle), with or
     without recellularization, can be used for transplanting into a patient.
     Alternatively, a recellularized organ or tissue as described herein can be used to
     examine, for example, cells undergoing differentiation and/or the cellular
     organization of an organ or tissue.
30
     Decellularizationof Organsor Tissues
              The invention provides for methods and materials to decellularize a
     mammalian organ or tissue. The initial step in decellularizing an organ or tissue
     is to cannulate the organ or tissue, if possible. The vessels, ducts, and/or cavities
                                             4

WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
     of an organ or tissue can be cannulated using methods and materials known in
     the art. The next step in decellularizing an organ or tissue is to perfuse the
     cannulated organ or tissue with a cellular disruption medium. Perfusion through
     an organ can be multi-directional (e.g., antegrade and retrograde).
 5            Langendorff perfusion of a heart is routine in the art, as is physiological
     perfusion (also known as four chamber working mode perfusion). See, for
     example, Dehnert, The IsolatedPerfused Warm-Blooded HeartAccording to
     Langendorff,In Methods in Experimental Physiology and Pharmacology:
     Biological Measurement Techniques V. Biomesstechnik-Verlag March GmbH,
10   West Germany, 1988. Briefly, for Langendorff perfusion, the aorta is cannulated
     and attached to a reservoir containing cellular disruption medium. A cellular
     disruption medium can be delivered in a retrograde direction down the aorta
     either at a constant flow rate delivered, for example, by an infusion or roller
     pump or by a constant hydrostatic pressure. In both instances, the aortic valves
15    are forced shut and the perfusion fluid is directed into the coronary ostia (thereby
     perfusing the entire ventricular mass of the heart), which then drains into the
     right atrium via the coronary sinus. For working mode perfusion, a second
     cannula is connected to the left atrium and perfusion can be changed from
     retrograde to antegrade.
20            Methods are known in the art for perfusing other organ or tissues. By
     way of example, the following references describe the perfusion of lung, liver,
     kidney, brain, and limbs. Van Putte et al., 2002, Ann. Thorac. Surg., 74(3):893
      8; den Butter et al., 1995, Transpl.Int., 8:466-71; Firth et al., 1989, Clin. Sci.
      (Lond.), 77(6):657-61; Mazzetti et al., 2004, BrainRes., 999(l):81-90; Wagner
25   et al., 2003, J. Artif Organs, 6(3):183-91.
              One or more cellular disruption media can be used to decellularize an
     organ or tissue. A cellular disruption medium generally includes at least one
     detergent such as SDS, PEG, or Triton X. A cellular disruption medium can
     include water such that the medium is osmotically incompatible with the cells.
30   Alternatively, a cellular disruption medium can include a buffer (e.g., PBS) for
     osmotic compatibility with the cells. Cellular disruption media also can include
     enzymes such as, without limitation, one or more collagenases, one or more
     dispases, one or more DNases, or a protease such as trypsin. In some instances,
     cellular disruption media also or alternatively can include inhibitors of one or
                                           5

 WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
       more enzymes (e.g., protease inhibitors, nuclease inhibitors, and/or collegenase
       inhibitors).
               In certain embodiments, a cannulated organ or tissue can be perfused
       sequentially with two different cellular disruption media. For example, the first
  5    cellular disruption medium can include an anionic detergent such as SDS and the
       second cellular disruption medium can include an ionic detergent such as Triton
      X. Following perfusion with at least one cellular disruption medium, a
       cannulated organ or tissue can be perfused, for example, with wash solutions
       and/or solutions containing one or more enzymes such as those disclosed herein.
 10            Alternating the direction of perfusion (e.g., antegrade and retrograde) can
      help to effectively decellularize the entire organ or tissue. Decellularization as
      described herein essentially decellularizes the organ from the inside out,
      resulting in very little damage to the ECM. An organ or tissue can be
      decellularized at a suitable temperature between 4 and 40*C. Depending upon
 15   the size and weight of an organ or tissue and the particular detergent(s) and
      concentration of detergent(s) in the cellular disruption medium, an organ or
      tissue generally is perfused from about 2 to about 12 hours per gram of solid
      organ or tissue with cellular disruption medium. Including washes, an organ
     may be perfused for up to about 12 to about 72 hours per gram of tissue.
20   Perfusion generally is adjusted to physiologic conditions including pulsatile
     flow, rate and pressure.
              As indicated herein, a decellularized organ or tissue consists essentially
     of the extracellular matrix (ECM) component of all or most regions of the organ
     or tissue, including ECM components of the vascular tree. ECM components
25   can include any or all of the following: fibronectin, fibrillin, laminin, elastin,
     members of the collagen family (e.g., collagen I, III, and IV),
     glycosaminoglycans, ground substance, reticular fibers and thrombospondin,
     which can remain organized as defined structures such as the basal lamina.
     Successful decellularization is defined as the absence of detectable
30   myofilaments, endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and nuclei in histologic
     sections using standard histological staining procedures. Preferably, but not
     necessarily, residual cell debris also has been removed from the decellularized
     organ or tissue.
                                             6

WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
               To effectively recellularize and generate an organ or tissue, it is
      important that the morphology and the architecture of the ECM be maintained
      (i.e., remain substantially intact) during and following the process of
      decellularization. "Morphology" as used herein refers to the overall shape of the
  5  organ or tissue or of the ECM, while "architecture" as used herein refers to the
      exterior surface, the interior surface, and the ECM therebetween.
               The morphology and architecture of the ECM can be examined visually
     and/or histologically. For example, the basal lamina on the exterior surface of a
     solid organ or within the vasculature of an organ or tissue should not be removed
 10  or significantly damaged due to decellularization. In addition, the fibrils of the
     ECM should be similar to or significantly unchanged from that of an organ or
     tissue that has not been decellularized.
               One or more compounds can be applied in or on a decellularized organ or
     tissue to, for example, preserve the decellularized organ, or to prepare the
 15  decellularized organ or tissue for recellularization and/or to assist or stimulate
     cells during the recellularization process. Such compounds include, but are not
     limited to, one or more growth factors (e.g., VEGF, DKK-1, FGF, BMP-1,
     BMP-4, SDF-1, IGF, and HGF), immune modulating agents (e.g., cytokines,
     glucocorticoids, IL2R antagonist, leucotriene antagonists), and/or factors that
20   modify the coagulation cascade (e.g., aspirin, heparin-binding proteins, and
     heparin). In addition, a decellularized organ or tissue can be further treated with,
     for example, irradiation (e.g., UV, gamma) to reduce or eliminate the presence of
     any type of microorganism remaining on or in a decellularized organ or tissue.
25  Recellularizationof Organs or Tissues
               The invention provides for materials and methods for generating an
    organ or tissue. An organ or tissue can be generated by contacting a
    decellularized organ or tissue as described herein with a population of
    regenerative cells. Regenerative cells as used herein are any cells used to
30  recellularize a decellularized organ or tissue. Regenerative cells can be
    totipotent cells, pluripotent cells, or multipotent cells, and can be uncommitted
    or committed. Regenerative cells also can be single-lineage cells. In addition,
    regenerative cells can be undifferentiated cells, partially differentiated cells, or
    fully differentiated cells. Regenerative cells as used herein include embryonic
                                             7

WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
      stem cells (as defined by the National Institute of Health (NIH); see, for
      example, the Glossary at stemcells.nih.gov on the World Wide Web).
      Regenerative cells also include progenitor cells, precursor cells, and "adult"
      derived stem cells including umbilical cord cells and fetal stem cells.
  5            Examples of regenerative cells that can be used to recellularize an organ
      or tissue include, without limitation, embryonic stem cells, umbilical cord blood
      cells, tissue-derived stem or progenitor cells, bone marrow-derived step or
     progenitor cells, blood-derived stem or progenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells
      (MSC), skeletal muscle-derived cells, or multipotent adult progentitor cells
 10   (MAPC). Additional regenerative cells that can be used include cardiac stem
      cells (CSC), multipotent adult cardiac-derived stem cells, cardiac fibroblasts,
      cardiac microvasculature endothelial cells, or aortic endothelial cells. Bone
      marrow-derived stem cells such as bone marrow mononuclear cells (BM-MNC),
      endothelial or vascular stem or progenitor cells, and peripheral blood-derived
15    stem cells such as endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) also can be used as
     regenerative cells.
               The number of regenerative cells that is introduced into and onto a
      decellularized organ in order to generate an organ or tissue is dependent on both
     the organ (e.g., which organ, the size and weight of the organ) or tissue and the
20   type and developmental stage of the regenerative cells. Different types of cells
     may have different tendencies as to the population density those cells will reach.
      Similarly, different organ or tissues may be cellularized at different densities.
     By way of example, a decellularized organ or tissue can be "seeded" with at least
     about 1,000 (e.g., at least 10,000, 100,000, 1,000,000, 10,000,000, or
25    100,000,000) regenerative cells; or can have from about 1,000 cells/mg tissue
     (wet weight, i.e., prior to decellularization) to about 10,000,000 cells/mg tissue
     (wet weight) attached thereto.
               Regenerative cells can be introduced ("seeded") into a decellularized
     organ or tissue by injection into one or more locations. In addition, more than
30   one type of cell (i.e., a cocktail of cells) can be introduced into a decellularized
     organ or tissue. For example, a cocktail of cells can be injected at multiple
     positions in a decellularized organ or tissue or different cell types can be injected
     into different portions of a decellularized organ or tissue. Alternatively, or in
     addition to injection, regenerative cells or a cocktail of cells can be introduced
                                             8

 WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
       by perfusion into a cannulated decellularized organ or tissue. For example,
       regenerative cells can be perfused into a decellularized organ using a perfusion
      medium, which can then be changed to an expansion and/or differentiation
      medium to induce growth and/or differentiation of the regenerative cells.
  5             During recellularization, an organ or tissue is maintained under
       conditions in which at least some of the regenerative cells can multiply and/or
       differentiate within and on the decellularized organ or tissue. Those conditions
      include, without limitation, the appropriate temperature and/or pressure,
       electrical and/or mechanical activity, force, the appropriate amounts of 02 and/or
 10   C0 2 , an appropriate amount of humidity, and sterile or near-sterile conditions.
      During recellularization, the decellularized organ or tissue and the regenerative
      cells attached thereto are maintained in a suitable environment. For example, the
      regenerative cells may require a nutritional supplement (e.g., nutrients and/or a
      carbon source such as glucose), exogenous hormones or growth factors, and/or a
 15   particular pH.
               Regenerative cells can be allogeneic to a decellularized organ or tissue
      (e.g., a human decellularized organ or tissue seeded with human regenerative
      cells), or regenerative cells can be xenogeneic to a decellularized organ or tissue
      (e.g., a pig decellularized organ or tissue seeded with human regenerative cells).
20    "Allogeneic" as used herein refers to cells obtained from the same species as that
      from which the organ or tissue originated (e.g., related or unrelated individuals),
     while "xenogeneic" as used herein refers to cells obtained from a species
      different than that from which the organ or tissue originated.
               In some instances, an organ or tissue generated by the methods described
25   herein is to be transplanted into a patient. In those cases, the regenerative cells
     used to recellularize a decellularized organ or tissue can be obtained from the
     patient such that the regenerative cells are "autologous" to the patient.
     Regenerative cells from a patient can be obtained from, for example, blood, bone
     marrow, tissues, or organs at different stages of life (e.g., prenatally, neonatally
30   or perinatally, during adolescence, or as an adult) using methods known in the
     art. Alternatively, regenerative cells used to recellularize a decellularized organ
     or tissue can be syngeneic (i.e., from an identical twin) to the patient,
     regenerative cells can be human lymphocyte antigen (HLA)-matched cells from,
     for example, a relative of the patient or an HLA-matched individual unrelated to
                                             9

WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
     the patient, or regenerative cells can be allogeneic to the patient from, for
     example, a non-HLA-matched donor.
              Irrespective of the source of the regenerative cells (e.g., autologous or
     not), the decellularized solid organ can be autologous, allogeneic or xenogeneic
 5   to a patient.
              In certain instances, a decellularized organ may be recellularized with
     cells in vivo (e.g., after the organ or tissue has been transplanted into an
     individual). In vivo recellularization may be performed as described above (e.g.,
     injection and/or perfusion) with, for example, any of the regenerative cells
10   described herein. Alternatively or additionally, in vivo seeding of a
     decellularized organ or tissue with endogenous cells may occur naturally or be
     mediated by factors delivered to the recellularized tissue.
              The progress of regenerative cells can be monitored during
     recellularization. For example, the number of cells on or in an organ or tissue
15   can be evaluated by taking a biopsy at one or more time points during
     recellularization. In addition, the amount of differentiation that regenerative
     cells have undergone can be monitored by determining whether or not various
     markers are present in a cell or a population of cells. Markers associated with
     different cells types and different stages of differentiation for those cell types are
20   known in the art, and can be readily detected using antibodies and standard
     immunoassays. See, for example, CurrentProtocols in Immunology, 2005,
     Coligan et al., Eds., John Wiley & Sons, Chapters 3 and 11. Nucleic acid assays
     as well as morphological and/or histological evaluation can be used to monitor
     recellularization.
25
     Controlled System for Decellularizingand/orRecellularizingAn Organ or
     Tissue
              The invention also provides for a system (e.g., a bioreactor) for
     decellularizing and/or recellularizing an organ or tissue. Such a system
30   generally includes at least one cannulation device for cannulating an organ or
     tissue, a perfusion apparatus for perfusing the organ or tissue through the
     cannula(s), and means (e.g., a containment system) to maintain a sterile
     environment for the organ or tissue. Cannulation and perfusion are well-known
     techniques in the art. A cannulation device generally includes size-appropriate
                                            10

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
     hollow tubing for introducing into a vessel, duct, and/or cavity of an organ or
     tissue. Typically, one or more vessels, ducts, and/or cavities are cannulated in an
     organ. A perfusion apparatus can include a holding container for the liquid (e.g.,
      a cellular disruption medium) and a mechanism for moving the liquid through
  5  the organ (e.g., a pump, air pressure, gravity) via the one or more cannulae. The
     sterility of an organ or tissue during decellularization and/or recellularization can
     be maintained using a variety of techniques known in the art such as controlling
     and filtering the air flow and/or perfusing with, for example, antibiotics, anti
     fungals or other anti-microbials to prevent the growth of unwanted
 10  microorganisms.
              A system to decellularize and recellularize organ or tissues as described
     herein can possess the ability to monitor certain perfusion characteristics (e.g.,
     pressure, volume, flow pattern, temperature, gases, pH), mechanical forces (e.g.,
     ventricular wall motion and stress), and electrical stimulation (e.g., pacing). As
 15  the coronary vascular bed changes over the course of decellularization and
     recellularization (e.g. vascular resistance, volume), a pressure-regulated
     perfusion apparatus is advantageous to avoid large fluctuations. The
     effectiveness of perfusion can be evaluated in the effluent and in tissue sections.
     Perfusion volume, flow pattern, temperature, partial 02 and CO 2 pressures and
20   pH can be monitored using standard methods.
              Sensors can be used to monitor the system (e.g., bioreactor) and/or the
     organ or tissue. Sonomicromentry, micromanometry, and/or conductance
     measurements can be used to acquire pressure-volume or preload recruitable
     stroke work information relative to myocardial wall motion and performance.
25   For example, sensors can be used to monitor the pressure of a liquid moving
    through a cannulated organ or tissue; the ambient temperature in the system
     and/or the temperature of the organ or tissue; the pH and/or the rate of flow of a
    liquid moving through the cannulated organ or tissue; and/or the biological
    activity of a recellularizing organ or tissue. In addition to having sensors for
30  monitoring such features, a system for decellularizing and/or recellularizing an
    organ or tissue also can include means for maintaining or adjusting such
    features. Means for maintaining or adjusting such features can include
    components such as a thermometer, a thermostat, electrodes, pressure sensors,
    overflow valves, valves for changing the rate of flow of a liquid, valves for
                                            11

WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
     opening and closing fluid connections to solutions used for changing the pH of a
      solution, a balloon, an external pacemaker, and/or a compliance chamber. To
     help ensure stable conditions (e.g., temperature), the chambers, reservoirs and
     tubings can be water-jacketed.
  5           It can be advantageous during recellularization to place a mechanical
     load on the organ and the cells attached thereto. As an example, a balloon
     inserted into the left ventricle via the left atrium can be used to place mechanical
     stress on a heart. A piston pump that allows adjustment of volume and rate can
     be connected to the balloon to simulate left ventricular wall motion and stress.
 10  To monitor wall motion and stress, left ventricular wall motion and pressure can
     be measured using micromanometry and/or sonomicrometry. In some
     embodiments, an external pacemaker can be connected to a piston pump to
     provide synchronized stimulation with each deflation of the ventricular balloon
     (which is equivalent to the systole). Peripheral ECG can be recorded from the
 15  heart surface to allow for the adjustment of pacing voltage, the monitoring of de
     and repolarization, and to provide a simplified surface map of the recellularizing
     or recellularized heart.
              Mechanical ventricular distention can also be achieved by attaching a
     peristaltic pump to a canula inserted into the left ventricle through the left
20   atrium. Similar to the procedure described above involving a balloon,
     ventricular distention achieved by periodic fluid movement (e.g., pulsatile flow)
     through the canula can be synchronized with electrical stimulation.
              Using the methods and materials disclosed herein, a mammalian heart
     can be decellularized and recellularized and, when maintained under the
25.  appropriate conditions, a functional heart that undergoes contractile function and
     responds to pacing stimuli and/or pharmacologic agents can be generated. This
     recellularized functional heart can be transplanted into a mammal and function
     for a period of time.
             Figure 2 shows one embodiment of a system for decellularizing and/or
30  recellularizing an organ or tissue (e.g., a bioreactor). The embodiment shown is
     a bioreactor for decellularizing and recellularizing a heart. This embodiment has
     an adjustable rate and volume peristaltic pump (A); an adjustable rate and
    volume piston pump connected to an intraventricular balloon (B); an adjustable
    voltage, frequency and amplitude external pacemaker (C); an ECG recorder (D);
                                            12

 WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
       a pressure sensor in the 'arterial line' (which equals coronary artery pressure)
       (E); a pressure sensor in the 'venous' line (which equals coronary sinus pressure)
       (F); and synchronization between the pacemaker and the piston pump (G).
                A system for generating an organ or tissue can be controlled by a
  5   computer-readable storage medium in combination with a programmable
      processor (e.g., a computer-readable storage medium as used herein has
      instructions stored thereon for causing a programmable processor to perform
      particular steps). For example, such a storage medium, in combination with a
      programmable processor, can receive and process information from one or more
 10   of the sensors. Such a storage medium in conjunction with a programmable
      processor also can transmit information and instructions back to the bioreactor
      and/or the organ or tissue.
                An organ or tissue undergoing recellularization can be monitored for
      biological activity. The biological activity can be that of the organ or tissue
 15   itself such as electrical activity, mechanical activity, mechanical pressure,
      contractility, and/or wall stress of the organ or tissue. In addition, the biological
      activity of the cells attached to the organ or tissue can be monitored, for
      example, for ion transport/exchange activity, cell division, and/or cell viability.
      See, for example, Laboratory Textbook of Anatomy and Physiology (2001,
20   Wood, Prentice Hall) and CurrentProtocols in Cell Biology (2001, Bonifacino
     et al., Eds, John Wiley & Sons). As discussed above, it may be useful to
     simulate an active load on an organ during recellularization. A computer
     readable storage medium of the invention, in combination with a programmable
     processor, can be used to coordinate the components necessary to monitor and
25   maintain an active load on an organ or tissue.
               In one embodiment, the weight of an organ or tissue can be entered into a
     computer-readable storage medium as described herein, which, in combination
     with a programmable processor, can calculate exposure times and perfusion
     pressures for that particular organ or tissue. Such a storage medium can record
30   preload and afterload (the pressure before and after perfusion, respectively) and
     the rate of flow. In this embodiment, for example, a computer-readable storage
     medium in combination with a programmable processor can adjust the perfusion
     pressure, the direction of perfusion, and/or the type of perfusion solution via one
     or more pumps and/or valve controls.
                                              13

 WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
               In accordance with the present invention, there may be employed
       conventional molecular biology, microbiology, biochemical, and cell biology
      techniques within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the
  5   literature. The invention will be further described in the following examples,
      which do not limit the scope of the invention described in the claims.
                                          EXAMPLES
                             Section A. Decellularization (Part 1)
 10   Example 1-Preparation of a Solid Organ for Decellularization
               To avoid the formation of post mortal thrombi, a donor rat was
      systemically heparinized with 400 U of heparin/kg of donor. Following
      heparinization, the heart and the adjacent large vessels were carefully removed.
               The heart was placed in a physiologic saline solution (0.9%) containing
 15   heparin (2000 U/ml) and held at 5'C until further processing. Under sterile
      conditions, the connective tissue was removed from the heart and the large
      vessels. The inferior venae cava and the left and right pulmonary veins were
      ligated distal from the right and left atrium using monofil, non-resorbable
      ligatures.
20
     Example 2-Cannulation and Perfusion of a Solid Organ
              The heart was mounted on a decellularization apparatus for perfusion
     (Figure 1). The descending thoracic artery was cannulated to allow retrograde
     coronary perfusion (Figure 1, Cannula A). The branches of the thoracic artery
25   (e.g., brachiocephalic trunc, left common carotid artery, left subclavian artery)
     were ligated. The pulmonary artery was cannulated before its division into the
     left and right pulmonary artery (Figure 1, Cannula B). The superior vena cava
     was cannulated (Figure 1, Cannula C). This configuration allows for both
     retrograde and antegrade coronary perfusion.
30            When positive pressure was applied to the aortic cannula (A), perfusion
     occurred from the coronary arteries through the capillary bed to the coronary
     venous system to the right atrium and the superior caval vein (C). When positive
     pressure was applied to the superior caval vein cannula (C), perfusion occurred
                                             14

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
     from the right atrium, the coronary sinus, and the coronary veins through the
     capillary bed to the coronary arteries and the aortic cannula (A).
     Example 3-Decellularization
  5           After the heart was mounted on the decellularization apparatus, antegrade
     perfusion was started with cold, heparinized, calcium-free phosphate buffered
     solution containing 1-5 mmol adenosine per L perfusate to reestablish constant
     coronary flow. Coronary flow was assessed by measuring the coronary
     perfusion pressure and the flow, and calculating coronary resistance. After 15
 10  minutes of stable coronary flow, the detergent-based decellularization process
     was initiated.
              The details of the procedures are described below. Briefly, however, a
     heart was perfused antegradely with a detergent. After perfusion, the heart can
     be flushed with a buffer (e.g., PBS) retrogradely. The heart then was perfused
 15  with PBS containing antibiotics and then PBS containing DNase I. The heart
     then was perfused with 1%benzalkonium chloride to reduce microbial
     contamination and to prevent future microbial contamination, and then perfused
     with PBS to wash the organ of any residual cellular components, enzymes, or
     detergent.
20
     Example 4-Decellularization of Cadaveric Rat Hearts
              Hearts were isolated from 8 male nude rats (250-300g). Immediately
     after dissection, the aortic arch was cannulated and the hearts were retrogradely
     perfused with the indicated detergent. The four different detergent-based
25   decellularization protocols (see below) were compared with respect to their
     feasibility and efficacy in (a) removing cellular components and (b) preserving
     vascular structures.
             Decellularization generally included the following steps: stabilization of
     the solid organ, decellularization of the solid organ, renaturation and/or
30   neutralization of the solid organ, washing the solid organ, degradation of any
     DNA remaining on the organ, disinfection of the organ, and homeostasis of the
     organ.
                                           15

WO 2007/025233                                                       PCT/US2006/033415
              A) Decellularization Protocol #1 (PEG)
              Hearts were washed in 200 ml PBS containing 100 U/ml penicillin, 0.1
     mg/ml Streptomycin, and 0.25 ptg/ml Amphotericin B with no recirculation.
     Hearts were then decellularized with 35 ml polyethyleneglycol (PEG; 1 g/ml) for
  5  up to 30 minutes with manual recirculation. The organ was then washed with
      500 ml PBS for up to 24 hours using a pump for recirculation. The washing step
     was repeated at least twice for at least 24 hours each time. Hearts were exposed
     to 35 ml DNase 1 (70 U/ml) for at least 1 hour with manual recirculation. The
     organs were washed again with 500 ml PBS for at least 24 hours.
 10           B) Decellularisation Protocol #2 (Triton X and Trypsin)
              Hearts were washed in 200 ml PBS containing 100 U/ml Penicillin, 0.1
     mg/ml Streptomycin, and 0.25 pg/ml Amphotericin B for at least about 20
     minutes with no recirculation. Hearts were then decellularized with 0.05%
     Trypsin for 30 min followed by perfusion with 500 ml PBS containing 5%
15   Triton-X and 0.1% ammonium-hydroxide for about 6 hours. Hearts were
     perfused with deionized water for about 1 hour, and then perfused with PBS for
      12 h. Hearts were then washed 3 times for 24 hours each time in 500 ml PBS
     using a pump for recirculation. The hearts were perfused with 35 ml DNase I
     (70 U/ml) for 1 hour with manual recirculation and washed twice in 500 ml PBS
20   for at least about 24 hours each time using a pump for recirculation.
              C) Decellularization Protocol #3 (1% SDS)
              Hearts were washed in 200 ml PBS containing 100 U/ml Penicillin, 0.1
     mg/ml Streptomycin, and 0.25 gg/ml Amphotericin B for at least about 20 mins
    with no recirculation. The hearts were decellularized with 500 ml water
25   containing 1% SDS for at least about 6 hours using a pump for recirculation.
    The hearts were then washed with deionized water for about 1 hour and washed
    with PBS for about 12 hours. The hearts were washed three times with 500 ml
    PBS for at least about 24 hours each time using a pump for recirculation. The
    heart was then perfused with 35 ml DNase 1 (70 U/ml) for about 1 hour using
30  manual recirculation, and washed three times with 500 ml PBS for at least about
    24 hours each time using a pump for recirculation.
              D) Decellularisation Protocol #4 (Triton X)
              Hearts were washed with 200 ml PBS containing 100 U/ml Penicillin,
    0.1 mg/ml Streptomycin, and 0.25 jg/ml Amphotericin B for at least about 20
                                           16

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
     mins with no recirculation. Hearts were then decellularized with 500 ml water
     containing 5%Triton X and 0.1% ammonium hydroxide for at least 6 hours
     using a pump for recirculation. Hearts were then perfused with deionized water
     for about 1 hour and then with PBS for about 12 hours. Hearts were washed by
 5   perfusing with 500 ml PBS 3 times for at least 24 hours each time using a pump
     for recirculation. Hearts were then perfused with 35 ml DNase 1 (70 U/ml) for
     about 1 hour using manual recirculation, and washed three times in 500 ml PBS
     for about 24 hours each time.
              For initial experiments, the decellularisation apparatus was set up within
10   a laminar flow hood. Hearts were perfused at a coronary perfusion pressure of
     60 cm H2 0. Although not required, the hearts described in the experiments
     above were mounted in a decellularisation chamber and completely submerged
     and perfused with PBS containing antibiotics for 72 hours in recirculation mode
     at a continuous flow of 5 ml/min to wash out as many cellular components and
15   detergent as possible.
              Successful decellularization was defined as the lack of myofilaments and
     nuclei in histologic sections. Successful preservation of vascular structures was
     assessed by perfusion with 2% Evans Blue prior to embedding tissue sections.
              Highly efficient decellularization took place when a heart was first
20   perfused antegradely with an ionic detergent (1% sodium-dodecyl-sulfate (SDS),
     approximately 0.03 M) dissolved in deionized H2 0 at a constant coronary
     perfusion pressure and then was perfused antegradely with a non-ionic detergent
     (1%Triton X-100) to remove the SDS and presumably to renature the
     extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Intermittently, the heart was perfused
25   retrogradely with phosphate buffered solution to clear obstructed capillaries and
     small vessels.
     Example 5-Evaluation of Decellularized Organs
             To demonstrate intact vascular structures following decellularization, a
30   decellularized heart is stained via Langendorff perfusion with Evans Blue to
     stain vascular basement membrane and quantify macro- and micro-vascular
     density. Further, polystyrene particles can be perfused into and through a heart
     to quantify coronary volume, the level of vessel leakage, and to assess the
     distribution of perfusion by analyzing coronary effluent and tissue sections. A
                                           17

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
      combination of three criteria are assessed and compared to isolated non
      decellularised heart: 1) an even distribution of polystyrene particles, 2)
      significant change in leakiness at some level 3) microvascular density.
              Fiber orientation is assessed by the polarized-light microscopy technique
  5   of Tower et al. (2002, Fiber alignment imaging during mechanical testing of soft
      tissues, Ann Biomed Eng., 30(10):1221-33), which can be applied in real-time to
      a sample subjected to uniaxial or biaxial stress. During Langendorff perfusion,
      basic mechanical properties of the decellularised ECM are recorded
      (compliance, elasticity, burst pressure) and compared to freshly isolated hearts.
 10
                            Section B. Decellularization (PartII)
      Example 1-Decellularization of Rat Heart
              Male 12 week old F344 Fischer rats (Harlan Labs, PO Box 29176
     Indianapolis, IN 46229), were anesthetized using intraperitoneal injection of 100
 15  mg/kg ketamine (Phoenix Pharmaceutical, Inc., St. Joseph, MO) and 10 mg/kg
     xylazine (Phoenix Pharmaceutical, Inc., St. Joseph, MO). After systemic
     heparinization (American Pharmaceutical Partners, Inc., Schaumberg, IL)
     through the left femoral vein, a median sternotomy was performed and the
     pericardium was opened. The retrosternal fat body was removed, the ascending
20   thoracic aorta was dissected and its branches ligated. The caval and pulmonary
     veins, the pulmonary artery and the thoracic aorta were transsected and the heart
     was removed from the chest. A prefilled 1.8 mm aortic canula (Radnoti Glass,
     Monrovia, CA) was inserted into the ascending aorta to allow retrograde
     coronary perfusion (Langendorff). The hearts were perfused with heparinized
25   PBS (Hyclone, Logan, UT) containing 10 ptM adenosine at a coronary perfusion
     pressure of 75 cm H2 0 for 15 minutes followed by 1%sodium dodecyl sulfate
     (SDS) or 1%polyethylene glycol 1000 (PEG 1000) (EMD Biosciences, La Jolla,
     Germany) or 1%Triton-X 100 (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) in deionized water for 2
    - 15 hours. This was followed by 15 minutes of deionized water perfusion and
30   30 minutes of perfusion with 1%Triton-X (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) in deionized
    water. The hearts were then continuously perfused with antibiotic-containing
    PBS (100 U/ml penicillin-G (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 100 U/ml streptomycin
     (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA) and 0.25 p.g/ml Amphotericin B (Sigma, St. Louis, MO))
    for 124 hours.
                                           18

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
              After 420 minutes of retrograde perfusion with either 1%PEG, 1%
      Triton-X 100 or 1%SDS, PEG and Triton-X 100 perfusion induced an
      edematous, opaque appearance, while SDS perfusion resulted in a more dramatic
      change leading to a nearly translucent graft as opaque elements were slowly
  5   washed out. Hearts exposed to all three protocols remained grossly intact with
      no evidence of coronary rupture or aortic valve insufficiency throughout the
     perfusion protocol (at constant coronary perfusion pressure of 77.4 mmHg).
      Coronary flow decreased in all three protocols during the first 60 minutes of
     perfusion, then normalized during SDS perfusion while remaining increased in
 10   Triton-X 100 and PEG perfusion. SDS perfusion induced the highest initial
      increase in calculated coronary resistance (up to 250 mmHg.s.ml-), followed by
      Triton-X (up to 200 mmHg.s.ml') and PEG (up to 150 mmHg.s.ml').
              Using histological sections of the detergent perfused heart tissue, it was
      determined that decellularization over the observed time period was incomplete
15    in both PEG and Triton-X 100 treated hearts; Hematoxylin-Eosin (H&E)
      staining showed nuclei and cross-striated filaments. In contrast, no nuclei or
      contractile filaments were detectable in sections of SDS-perfused hearts.
     Vascular structures and ECM fiber direction, however, were preserved in the
      SDS-treated hearts.
20            To remove the ionic SDS from the ECM after the initial
     decellularization, the organ was perfused for 30 minutes with Triton-X 100. In
     addition and to ensure complete washout of all detergents and to reestablish a
     physiologic pH, the decellularized organ was perfused extensively with
     deionized water and PBS for 124 h.
25
     Example 2-Decellularization of Rat Kidney
              For kidney isolation, the entire peritoneal content was wrapped in wet
     gauze and carefully mobilized to the side to expose the retroperitoneal space.
     The mesenteric vessels were ligated and transected. The abdominal aorta was
30   ligated and transected below the take off of the renal arteries. The thoracic aorta
     was transected just above the diaphragm and canulated using a 1.8 mm aortic
     canula (Radnoti Glass, Monrovia, CA). The kidneys were carefully removed
     from the retroperitoneum and submerged in sterile PBS (Hyclone, Logan, UT) to
     minimize pulling force on the renal arteries. 15 minutes of heparinized PBS
                                            19

WO 2007/025233                                                        PCT/US2006/033415
     perfusion were followed by 2 - 16 hours of perfusion with 1% SDS (Invitrogen,
     Carlsbad, CA) in deionized water and 30 minutes of perfusion with 1%Triton-X
     (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) in deionized water. The liver was then continuously
     perfused with antibiotic containing PBS (100 U/ml penicillin-G (Gibco,
 5   Carlsbad, CA), 100 U/ml streptomycin (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 0.25 ptg/ml
     Amphotericin B (Sigma, St. Louis, MO)) for 124 hours.
             420 minutes of SDS perfusion followed by Triton-X 100 yielded a
     completely decellularized renal ECM scaffold with intact vasculature and organ
     architecture. Evans blue perfusion confirmed intact vasculature similar to
10   decellularized cardiac ECM. Movat pentachrome staining of decellularized
     renal cortex showed intact glomeruli and proximal and distal convoluted tubule
     basement membranes without any intact cells or nuclei. Staining of
     decellularized renal medulla showed intact tubule and collecting duct basement
     membranes. SEM of decellularized renal cortex confirmed intact glomerular and
15   tubular basement membranes. Characteristic structures such as Bowman's
     capsule delineating the glomerulus from surrounding proximal and distal tubules
     and glomerular capillary basement membranes within the glomeruli were
     preserved. SEM images of decellularized renal medulla showed intact medullary
     pyramids reaching into the renal pelvis with intact collecting duct basal
20   membranes leading towards the papilla. Thus, all the major ultrastructures of the
     kidney were intact after decellularization.
     Example 3-Decellularization of Rat Lung
             The lung (with the trachea) were carefully removed from the chest and
25   submerged in sterile PBS (Hyclone, Logan, UT) to minimize pulling force on the
     pulmonary arteries. 15 minutes of heparinized PBS perfusion was followed by 2
    - 12 hours of perfusion with 1%SDS (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) in deionized
    water and 15 minutes of perfusion with 1% Triton-X (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) in
     deionized water. The lung was then continuously perfused with antibiotic
30   containing PBS (100 U/ml penicillin-G (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 100 U/ml
     streptomycin (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 0.25 ptg/ml Amphotericin B (Sigma, St.
    Louis, MO)) for 124 hours.
             180 minutes of SDS perfusion followed by Triton-X 100 perfusion
    yielded a completely decellularized pulmonary ECM scaffold with intact airways
                                          20

 WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
       and vessels. Movat pentachrome staining of histologic sections showed the
       presence of ECM components in lung including major structural proteins such as
       collagen and elastin and also soluble elements such as proteoglycans. However,
       no nuclei or intact cells were retained. Airways were preserved from the main
  5    bronchus to terminal bronchiole to respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and
       alveoles. The vascular bed from pulmonary arteries down to the capillary level
       and pulmonary veins remained intact. SEM micrographs of decellularized lung
       showed preserved bronchial, alveolar and vascular basement membranes with no
       evidence of retained cells. The meshwork of elastic and reticular fibers
 10   providing the major structural support to the interalveolar septum as well as the
       septal basement membrane were intact, including the dense network of
      capillaries within the pulmonary interstitium.
               SEM micrographs of the decellularized trachea showed intact ECM
      architecture with decellularized hyaline cartilage rings and a rough luminal basal
 15   membrane without respiratory epithelium.
      Example 4-Decellularization of Rat Liver
               For liver isolation, the caval vein was exposed through a median
      laparotomy, dissected and canulated using a mouse aortic canula (Radnoti Glass,
20   Monrovia, CA). The hepatic artery and vein and the bile duct were transsected
      and the liver was carefully removed from the abdomen and submerged in sterile
     PBS (Hyclone, Logan, UT) to minimize pulling force on portal vein. 15 minutes
     of heparinized PBS perfusion was followed by 2 - 12 hours of perfusion with
      1%SDS (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) in deionized water and 15 minutes of 1%
25   Triton-X (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) in deionized water. The liver was then
     continuously perfused with antibiotic containing PBS (100 U/ml penicillin-G
     (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 100 U/ml streptomycin (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 0.25
     pIg/ml Amphotericin B (Sigma, St. Louis, MO)) for 124 hours.
               120 minutes of SDS perfusion followed by perfusion with Triton-X 100
30   were sufficient to generate a completely decellularized liver. Movat
     pentachrome staining of decellularized liver confirmed retention of characteristic
     hepatic organization with central vein and portal space containing hepatic artery,
     bile duct and portal vein.
                                              21

 WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
       Example 5-Methods and Materials Used to Evaluate the Decellularized Organs
               Histology and Immunofluorescence. Movat Pentachrome staining was
      performed on paraffin embedded decellularized tissues following the
      manufacturers instructions (American Mastertech Scientific, Lodi, CA). Briefly,
  5    deparaffinized slides were stained using Verhoeff's elastic stain, rinsed,
       differentiated in 2% ferric chloride, rinsed, placed in 5% sodium thiosulfate,
      rinsed, blocked in 3% glacial acetic acid, stained in 1%alcian blue solution,
      rinsed, stained in crocein scarlet - acid fuchsin, rinsed, dipped in 1% glacial
      acetic acid, destained in 5% phosphotungstic acid, dipped in 1% glacial acetic
 10   acid, dehydrated, placed in alcoholic saffron solution, dehydrated, mounted and
      covered.
               Immunofluorescence staining was performed on decellularized tissues.
      Antigen retrieval was performed on paraffin-embedded tissue (recellularized
      tissue) but not on frozen sections (decellularized tissue) as follows: Paraffin
 15   sections were de-waxed and rehydrated by 2 changes of xylene for 5 minutes
      each, followed by sequential alcohol gradient and rinsing in cold running tap
      water. The slides were then placed in antigen retrieval solution (2.94 g tri
      sodium citrate, 22 ml of 0.2 M hydrochloric acid solution, 978 ml ultra-pure
     water, and adjusted to a pH of 6.0) and boiled for 30 minutes. After rinsing
20   under running cold tap water for 10 minutes, immunostaining was begun.
     Frozen sections were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde (Electron Microscopy
     Sciences, Hatfield, PA) in 1X PBS (Mediatech, Herndon, VA) for 15 minutes at
     room temperature before staining. Slides were blocked with 4% Fetal Bovine
     Serum (FBS; HyClone, Logan, UT) in IX PBS for 30 minutes at room
25   temperature. Samples were sequentially incubated for one hour at room
     temperature with diluted primary and secondary antibodies (Ab). Between each
     step, slides were washed 3 times (5-10 min each) with IX PBS. Primary Ab
     against Collagen I (goat polyclonal IgG (Cat. No. sc-8788), Santa Cruz
     Biotechnology Inc., Santa Cruz, CA), Collagen III (goat polyclonal IgG (Cat.
30   No. sc-2405), Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., Santa Cruz, CA), Fibronectin
     (goat polyclonal IgG (Cat. No. sc-6953), Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., Santa
     Cruz, CA), and Laminin (rabbit polyclonal IgG (Cat. No. sc-20142), Santa Cruz
     Biotechnology Inc., Santa Cruz, CA) were used at a 1:40 dilution with blocking
     buffer. Secondary Ab's bovine anti-goat IgG phycoerythin (Cat. No. sc-3747,
                                            22

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
     Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., Santa Cruz, CA) and bovine anti-rabbit IgG
     phycoerythin (Cat. No. sc-3750, Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc., Santa Cruz,
     CA) were used at a 1:80 dilution with blocking buffer. Slides were covered with
     cover glass (Fisherbrand 22 x 60, Pittsburgh, PA) in hardening mounting
  5  medium containing 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) (Vectashield, Vector
     Laboratories, Inc., Burlingame, CA). Images were recorded using ImagePro
     Plus 4.5.1 (Mediacybemetics, Silver Spring, MD) on a Nikon Eclipse TE200
     inverted microscope (Fryer Co. Inc., Huntley, IL) using ImagePro Plus 4.5.1
     (Mediacybernetics, Silver Spring, MD).
 10          Scanning Electron Microscopy. Normal and decellularized tissues were
     perfusion fixed with 2.5% glutaraldehyde (Electron Microscopy Sciences,
     Hatfield, PA) in 0.1 M cacodylate buffer (Electron Microscopy Sciences,
     Hatfield, PA) for 15 minutes. Tissues were then rinsed two times in 0.1 M
     cacodylate buffer for 15 minutes. Post-fixation was performed with 1%osmium
 15  tetroxide (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Hatfield, PA) for 60 minutes. Tissue
     samples were then dehydrated in increasing concentrations of EtOH (50% for 10
     minutes, 70% for 10 minutes two times, 80% for 10 minutes, 95% for 10
     minutes two times, 100% for 10 minutes two times). Tissue samples then
     underwent critical point drying in a Tousimis Samdri-780A (Tousimis,
20   Rockville, MD). Coating was performed with 30 seconds of Gold/Palladium
     sputter coating in the Denton DV-502A Vacuum Evaporator (Denton Vacuum,
     Moorestown, NJ). Scanning electron microscopy images were taken using a
     Hitachi S4700 Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscope (Hitachi High
     Technologies America, Pleasanton, CA).
25           Mechanical Testing. Crosses of myocardial tissue were cut from the left
     ventricle of rats so that the center area was approximately 5 mm x 5 mm and the
     axes of the cross were aligned in the circumferential and longitudinal directions
     of the heart. The initial thickness of the tissue crosses were measured by a
    micrometer and found to be 3.59  0.14 mm in the center of the tissue cross.
30   Crosses were also cut from decellularized rat left ventricular tissue in the same
    orientation and with the same center area size. The initial thickness of the
    decellularized samples was 238.5  38.9 ym. In addition,the mechanical
    properties of fibrin gels was tested, another tissue engineering scaffold used in
    engineering vascular and cardiac tissue. Fibrin gels were cast into cross-shaped
                                            23

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
     molds with a final concentration of 6.6 mg of fibrin/ml. The average thickness
     of the fibrin gels was 165.2 =67.3 ptm. All samples were attached to a biaxial
     mechanical testing machine (Instron Corporation, Norwood, MA) via clamps,
     submerged in PBS, and stretched equibiaxially to 40% strain. In order to probe
 5   the static passive mechanical properties accurately, the samples were stretched in
     increments of 4% strain and allowed to relax at each strain value for at least 60
     seconds. Forces were converted to engineering stress by normalizing the force
     values with the cross sectional area in the specific axis direction (5 mm x initial
     thickness). Engineering stress was calculated as the displacement normalized by
10   the initial length. In order to compare the data between the two axes as well as
     between sample groups, a tangential modulus was calculated as follows:
                        [T(E = 40% strain) - T(E = 36% strain)]/ 4% strain
     where T is engineering stress and Eis engineering strain. The values for the
     tangential modulus were averaged and compared between the two axes
15   (circumferential and longitudinal) as well as between groups.
     Example 6-Assessment of Biocompatibility of Decellularized Organ
              To assess biocompatibility, 100,000 mouse embryonic stem cells
     (mESC) suspended in 1 cc of standard expansion media (Iscove's Modified
20   Dulbecco's Medium (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 10% Fetal Bovine Serum
     (HyClone, Logan, UT), 100 U/ml penicillin-G (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 100 U/ml
     streptomycin (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA), 2 mmol/L L-glutamine (Invitrogen,
     Carlsbad, CA), 0.1 mmol/L 2-mercaptoethanol (Gibco, Carlsbad, CA) were
     seeded onto the ECM sections and on control plates without specific growth
25   factor stimulation or feeder cell support. 4',6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)
     was added to the cell culture media at a concentration of 10 pg/ml to label cell
     nuclei and to allow quantification of cell attachment and expansion. Images
     were recorded under UV-light and phase contrast at baseline, 24, 48 and 72
     hours thereafter using ImagePro Plus 4.5.1 (Mediacybernetics, Silver Spring,
30   MD) on a Nikon Eclipse TE200 inverted microscope (Fryer Co. Inc., Huntley,
     IL).
             The decellularized ECM was compatible with cell viability, attachment
     and proliferation. Seeded mESCs engrafted on the ECM scaffolds and began to
     invade the matrix within 72 h of cell seeding.
                                          24

WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
      Example 7-Evaluation of Decellularized Organs
              Aortic valve competence and integrity of the coronary vascular bed of
      SDS decellularized rat heart was assessed by Langendorff perfusion with 2%
 5    Evans blue dye. No left ventricular filling with dye was observed, indicating an
      intact aortic valve. Macroscopically, filling of the coronary arteries up to the
      fourth branching point was confirmed without signs of dye leakage. In tissue
      sections, perfusion of large (150 pm) and small (20 ptm) arteries and veins was
      subsequently confirmed by red fluorescence of Evans blue-stained vascular basal
10   membrane.
              To confirn the retention of major cardiac ECM components,
      immunofluorescent staining of SDS decellularized ECM scaffolds was
     performed. This confirmed the presence of major cardiac ECM components
      such as collagens I and III, fibronectin and laminin, but showed no evidence of
15   retained intact nuclei or contractile elements including cardiac myosin heavy
     chain or sarcomeric alpha actin.
              Scanning electron micrographs (SEM) of SDS decellularized cardiac
     ECM demonstrated that fiber orientation and composition were preserved in
     aortic wall and aortic valve leaflet with an absence of cells throughout the entire
20   tissue thickness. Decellularized left and right ventricular wall retained ECM
     fiber composition (weaves, struts, coils) and orientation, while myofibers were
     completely removed. Within the retained ECM of both ventricles, intact
     vascular basal membranes of different diameters without endothelial or smooth
     muscle cells were observed. Furthermore, a thin layer of dense epicardial fibers
25   underneath an intact epicardial basal lamina was retained.
              To assess mechanical properties of decellularized heart tissue, bi-axial
     testing was performed and compared to fibrin gels, which is frequently used as
     an artificial ECM scaffold in cardiac tissue engineering. The normal rat
     ventricle and decellularized samples were highly anisotropic with respect to the
30   stress-strain behavior. Conversely, in the fibrin gel sample, the stress-strain
    properties were extremely similar between the two principal directions. The
     directional dependence of stress-strain behavior was present in all samples in the
    normal rat ventricle and decellularized groups, and the isotropic nature of the
     stress-strain properties was typical of all samples in the fibrin gel group.
                                           25

WO 2007/025233                                                            PCT/US2006/033415
              In order to compare the stress-strain properties between these two groups
     and also between the principal axes of the hearts, a tangential modulus was
     calculated at 40% strain (see Example 5 for the equation) in both the
     circumferential and longitudinal direction. Note that in both directions, the
 5   decellularized sample group had a significantly higher modulus than the normal
     rat ventricle and fibrin gel sample groups. There was a significant difference,
     however, between the moduli in the two directions for both the normal rat
     ventricle and the decellularized matrix, but not for the fibrin gel.
              For the intact left ventricular tissue, the stress at 40% strain varied
10   between 5 and 14 kPa in the longitudinal direction and between 15 and 24 kPa in
     the circumferential direction, which is in agreement with previously published
     data. In both the rat ventricular tissue and the decellularized rat ventricular
     tissue, the circumferential direction was stiffer than the longitudinal direction,
     most likely due to muscle fiber orientation of the heart. While the fiber
15   orientation changes through the thickness of the cardiac tissue, the majority of
     the fibers were oriented in the circumferential direction and thus, this direction
     would be expected to be stiffer. The decellularized tissue was significantly
     stiffer than the intact tissue. This also would be expected since the extracellular
     matrix is stiffer than the cells themselves, and the combination of ECM and cells
20   would likely not be as stiff as just the ECM alone. While the values of the
     tangential modulus of the decellularized tissue seem rather large, they are only
     slightly greater than values of the Young's modulus for purified elastin
     (approximately 600 kPa) and less than Young's modulus of a single collagen
     fiber (5 Mpa), placing the values determined herein within a reasonable range.
25
     Example 8-Decellularization of Other Organs or Tissues
              In addition to rat heart, lung, kidney and liver, similar results were
     generated by applying the perfusion decellularization protocol described herein
     to skeletal muscle, pancreas, small and large bowel, esophagus, stomach, spleen,
30   brain, spinal cord and bone.
     Example 9-Decellularization of Pig Kidney
              Pig kidneys were isolated from heparinized male animals. To allow
    perfusion of the isolated organs, the renal artery was canulated and blood was
                                             26

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
     washed out with PBS perfusion over 15 minutes. Perfusion with 27 L of 1%
      SDS in deionized water was performed for 35.5 hours at a pressure of 50-100
     mmHg. Perfusion with 1% Triton-X in deionized water was initiated to remove
      SDS from the ECM scaffold. Washing and buffering of the decellularized
 5   kidneys was then performed by perfusion with antibiotic containing PBS for 120
     hours to remove detergents and obtain a biocompatible pH.
              Organ clearing was observed within two hours of initiating perfusion.
      Clear white color predominated 12 hours into perfusion. Decellularization was
     terminated with the organ was white semi-transparent.
10
     Example 10-Transplantation of Decellularized Heart
              Hearts from F344 rats were prepared by cannulating the aorta distal to
     the Ao valve and ligating all other great vessels and pulmonary vessels except
     the left branch of the pulmonary trunk (distal to its bifurcation) and the inferior
15   vena cava (IVC). Decellularization was achieved using Langendorf retrograde
     coronary perfusion and 2 liters of 1%SDS over 12-16 hours. The hearts were
     then renatured with 35 mL of 1%Triton-X over 30-40 minutes, and then washed
     with antibiotic and antifungal-containing PBS for 72 hours. The IVC was
     ligated before the transplantation.
20            A large (380 to 400 gram) RNU rat was prepared for reception of the
     decellularized heart. A blunt-angled mosquito clamp was applied to both the
     IVC and the abdominal Ao of the host animal to ensure isolation of areas of
     anastomosis. The aorta of the decellularized heart was anastomosed to the host
     abdominal aorta proximal and inferior to the renal branches using 8-0 silk suture.
25   The left branch of the decellularized heart's pulmonary trunk was anastomosed
     to the closest region of the host IVC to minimize physical stress on pulmonary
     trunk.
              After both vessels were sewn into the host animal, the clamp was
     released and the decellularized heart filled with the host animal's blood. The
30   recipient animal's abdominal aortic pressure was observed visually in the
     decellularized heart and aorta. The decellularized heart became distended and
     red with blood. Bleeding was minimal at the site of anastomosis. Heparin was
     administered 3 minutes after clamp release (initiation of perfusion), and the heart
     was photographed and positioned in the abdomen to minimize stress on the sites
                                          27

WO 2007/025233                                                        PCT/US2006/033415
      of anastomosis. The abdomen was closed in sterile fashion and the animal
     monitored for recovery. At 55 hours post-transplant, the animal was euthanized
      and the decellularized heart was explanted for observation. The animals that did
     not receive heparin showed a large thrombosis in the LV upon dissection and
 5    evaluation. Blood was also observed in coronary arteries in both the right and
     left sides of the heart.
               In other transplant experiments, the clamp was released after both vessels
     were sewn into the host animal, and the decellularized heart filled with the host
      animal's blood. The recipient animal's abdominal aortic pressure was observed
10   visually in the decellularized heart and aorta. The decellularized heart became
     distended and red, and bleeding was minimal at the site of anastomosis. Heparin
     was administered (3000 IU) by IP injection 3 minutes after clamp release
      (initiation of perfusion). The heart was photographed and positioned in the
     abdomen to minimize stress on the sites of anastomosis. The abdomen was
15   closed in sterile fashion and the animal monitored for recovery. The animal was
     found dead from hemorrhage at approximately 48 hours after transplantation.
     Transplantation time is currently in the 55 to 70 minute range.
                                  Section C. Recellularization
20   Example 1-Recellularization of Cardiac ECM Slices
               To evaluate biocompatibility of decellularised ECM, 1 mm thick slices of
     one decellularised heart were cultured with myogenic and endothelial cell lines.
     2 x 10s rat skeletal myoblasts, C2C12 mouse myoblasts, human umbilical cord
     endothelial cells (HUVECs), and bovine pulmonary endothelial cells (BPEC)
25   were seeded onto tissue sections and co-cultured under standard conditions for 7
     days. Myogenic cells migrated through and expanded within the ECM and
     aligned with the original fiber orientation. These myogenic cells showed
     increased proliferation and fully re-populated large portions of the ECM slice.
     Endothelial cell lines showed a less invasive growth pattern, forming a
30   monolayer on the graft surface. There were no detectable antiproliferative
     effects under these conditions.
                                           28

WO 2007/025233                                                        PCT/US2006/033415
     Example 2-Recellularisation of Cardiac ECM by Coronary Perfusion
              To determine the efficiency of seeding regenerative cells onto and into
     decellularised cardiac ECM by coronary perfusion, a decellularized heart was
     transferred to an organ chamber and continuously perfused with oxygenised cell
 5   culture media under cell culture conditions (5% C0 2, 60% humiditiy, 37'C). 120
     x  106 PKH labelled HUVECs (suspended in 50 ml of endothelial cell growth
     media) were infused at 40 cm H 2 0 coronary perfusion pressure. Coronary
     effluent was saved and cells were counted. The effluent was then recirculated
     and perfused again to deliver a maximum number of cells. Recirculation was
10   repeated two times. After the third passage, approximately 90 x 106 cells were
     retained within the heart. The heart was continuously perfused with 500 ml of
     recirculating oxygenised endothelial cell culture media for 120 hours. The heart
     was then removed and embedded for cryosectioning. HUVECs were confined to
     arterial and venous residues throughout the heart, but were not yet completely
15   dispersed throughout the extravascular ECM.
     Example 3-Recellularization of a Decellularized Rat Heart with Neonatal Rat
     Heart Cells
              Isolation and preparation of rat neonatal cardiocytes. On day one, eight
20   to ten SPF Fisher-344 neonatal pups, aged 1-3 days (Harlan Labs, Indianapolis,
     IN), were sedated with 5% inhaled Isoflurane (Abbott Laboratories, North
     Chicago, IL), sprayed with 70% EtOH, and a rapid sternotomy was performed in
     sterile fashion. Hearts were excised and placed immediately into 50ml conical
     tube on ice containing HBSS; Reagent #1 from a neonatal cardiomyocyte
25   isolation system (Worthington Biochemical Corporation, Lakewood, NJ).
     Supernatant was removed and whole hearts were washed once with cold HBSS
     by vigorous swirling. Hearts were transferred to a 100 mm culture dish
     containing 5ml cold HBSS, the connective tissue was removed, and remaining
     tissue was minced into pieces <1 mm2 . Additional HBSS was added to bring
30   total plate volume to 9 ml, to which 1 ml Trypsin (Reagent #2, Worthington kit)
     was added to give a final concentration of 50 pg/ml. Plates were incubated
     overnight in a 5'C cooler.
              On day two, the plates were removed from the cooler and placed in a
     sterile hood on ice. Tissue and trypsin-containing buffer were transferred to 50
                                          29

 WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
       ml conical tubes on ice using wide-mouth pipettes. Trypsin Inhibitor (Reagent
       #3) was reconstituted with 1 ml HBSS (Reagent #1) and added to the 50 ml
       conical tube and gently mixed. The tissue was oxygenated for 60-90 seconds by
       passing air over the surface of the liquid. The tissue was then warmed to 37*C
  5    and collagenase (300 units/ml) reconstituted with 5 ml Leibovitz L-15 was added
       slowly. The tissue was placed in a warm (37'C) shaker bath for 45 minutes.
       Next, the tissue was titrated ten times using a 10 ml pipet to release the cells (3
       mls per second) and then strained through a 0.22 pm filter. The tissue was
      washed with an 5 additional mls of L-15 media, titrated a second time, and
 10    collected in the same 50 ml conical tube. The solution of cells was then
      incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes, and spun at 50 xg for five minutes
      to pellet the cells. The supernatant was gently removed and the cells were
      resuspended in the desired volume using Neonatal-Cardiomyocyte Media.
               Media and Solutions. All media were sterile filtered and stored in the
 15   dark in 5C coolers. Worthington Isolation Kit contains a suggested media,
      Leibovitz L-15, for culture. This media was used for Day Two of the tissue
      processing only. For plating, an alternate calcium-containing media was used,
      which is described herein. Worthington Leibovitz L-15 Media: Leibovitz media
      powder was reconstituted using 1 L cell-culture grade water. Leibovitz L- 15
20    media contains 140 mg/ml CaCl, 93.68 mg/ml MgCl, and 97.67 mg/ml MgS.
      Neonatal-CardiomyocyteMedia: Iscove's Modified Dulbecco's Medium
      (Gibco, Cat. No. 12440-053) was supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum
      (HyClone), 100 U/ml penicillin-G (Gibco), 100 U/ml streptomycin (Gibco), 2
      mmol/L L-glutamine (Invitrogen), and 0.1 mmol/L 2-mercaptoethanol (Gibco,
25    Cat. No. 21985-023) and sterile filtered before use. Amphotericine-B was added
      as needed (0.25 pg/ml final concentration). This media was enhanced with 1.2
     mM CaCl (Fisher Scientific, Cat. No. C614-500) and 0.8 mM MgCl (Sigma,
      Cat. No. M-0250).
              In Vitro Culture Analysis of Recellularization. As a step towards
30   creating a bioartificial heart, the isolated ECM was recellularized with neonatal
     heart-derived cells. Completely decellularized hearts (made as described herein)
     were injected with a combination of 50 x 106 freshly isolated rat neonatal
     cardiomyocytes, fibrocytes, endothelial and smooth muscle cells. The heart
     tissue was then sliced and the slices were cultured in vitro to test the
                                             30

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
      biocompatibility of the decellularized ECM and the ability of the resulting
      constructs to develop into myocardium rings.
              Minimal contractions within the resulting rings were observed
      microscopically after 24 hours, demonstrating that the transplanted cells were
 5    able to attach and engraft on the decellularized ECM. Microscopically, cells
      oriented along the ECM fiber direction. Immunofluorescence staining
      confirmed the survival and engraftment of cardiomyocytes expressing cardiac
      myosin heavy chain. Within four days, clusters of contracting cell patches were
      observed on the decellularized matrix, which progressed to synchronously
10    contracting tissue rings by day 8.
              At day 10, these rings were mounted between two rods to measure
      contractile force under different preload conditions. The rings could be
      electrically paced up to a frequency of 4 Hz and created contractile force of up to
      3 nN under a preload of up to 0.65 g. Thus, with this in vitro tissue culture
15    approach of recellularization, contractile tissue was obtained that generated an
      equally effective force as that generated by optimized engineered heart tissue
     rings using artificial ECM constructs.
              Recellularization of a Decellularized Heart via Perfusion. Recellularized
      (50 x 106 freshly isolated rat neonatal cardiomyocytes, fibrocytes, endothelial
20    and smooth muscle cells) scaffolds were mounted in a perfusable bioreactor
      (n=10) that simulated rat cardiac physiology including pulsatile left ventricular
     distension,with gradually increasing preload and afterload (day 1: preload 4-12
     mmHg, afterload 3-7 mmHg), pulsatile coronary flow (day 1: 7 ml/min), and
     electric stimulation (day 2: 1 Hz) under sterile cardiac tissue culture conditions
25   (5% C0 2 , 60% H20, 37C). Perfused organ culture was maintained for one to
     four weeks. Pressures, flows and EKG were recorded for 30 seconds every 15
     minutes throughout the entire culture period. Videos of the nascent bioartificial
     hearts were recorded at days four, six and ten after cell seeding.
              At day 10 after cell seeding, a more in-depth functional assessment was
30   performed including insertion of a pressure probe into the left ventricle to record
     left ventricular pressure (LVP) and video recording of wall motion as the
     stimulation frequency was gradually increased from 0.1 Hz to 10 Hz and
     performed pharmacological stimulation with phenylephrine (PE). The
     recellularized heart showed contractile response to single paces with
                                           31

WO 2007/025233                                                          PCT/US2006/033415
      spontaneous contractions following the paced contractions with corresponding
     increases in LVP. After a single pace, the heart showed three spontaneous
      contractions and then converted to a fibrillatory state. Similar to the stimulated
      contractions, spontaneous depolarizations caused a corresponding increase in
 5   LVP and a recordable QRS complex possibly indicating the formation of a
     developing stable conduction pattern.
              Once stimulation frequency was increased to 0.4 Hz, an average of two
      spontaneous contractions occurred after each induced contraction; at a pacing
      frequency up to 1 Hz, only one spontaneous contraction occurred; and at a
10   pacing frequency of 5 Hz, no spontaneous contractions occurred. Maximum
     capture rate was 5 Hz, which is consistent with a refractory period of 250 ms for
     mature myocardium. After perfusion with 100 IM of PE, regular spontaneous
     depolarizations occurred at a frequency of 1.7 Hz and were coupled with
     corresponding increases in LVP.
15           Histological analysis at day 10 revealed cell dispersion and engraftment
     throughout the entire thickness of the left ventricular wall (0.5-1.2 mm).
     Cardiomyocytes aligned with the ventricular fiber direction and formed areas of
     dense, organized grafts resembling mature myocardium and less dense immature
     grafts similar to developing myocardium. Immunofluorescence staining for
20   cardiac myosin heavy chain confirmed the cardiomyocyte phenotype. A high
     capillary density was maintained throughout the newly developed myocardium
     with an average distance between capillaries of approximately 20 ym, which is
     similar to that reported for mature rat myocardium. Endothelial cell phenotype
     was confirmed by immunofluorescent staining for vonWillebrand Factor (vWF).
25   Cell viability was maintained throughout the entire graft thickness, indicating
     sufficient oxygen and nutrient supply through coronary perfusion.
                                 OTHER EMBODIMENTS
             It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in
30   conjunction with the detailed description thereof, the foregoing description is
     intended to illustrate and not limit the scope of the invention, which is defined
     by the scope of the appended claims. Other aspects, advantages, and
     modifications are within the scope of the following claims.
                                           32

 WO 2007/025233                                                            PCT/US2006/033415
      WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
               1.      A decellularized mammalian organ, comprising
  5                    a decellularized extracellular matrix of said organ, wherein said
      extracellular matrix comprises an exterior surface, and wherein said extracellular
      matrix, including the vascular tree, substantially retains the morphology of said
      extracellular matrix prior to decellularization, and wherein said exterior surface
      is substantially intact.
 10
               2.     The decellularized organ of claim 1, wherein said organ is
      cadaveric.
               3.     The decellularized organ of claim 1, wherein said organ is a heart.
 15
              4.      The decellularized organ of claim 3, wherein said heart is a rodent
      heart, a pig heart, a rabbit heart, a bovine heart, a sheep heart, or a canine heart.
              5.      The decellularized organ of claim 4, wherein said heart is a
20   human heart.
              6.      The decellularized organ of claim 3, wherein said heart is a
     portion of an entire heart.
25            7.      The decellularized organ of claim 6, wherein said portion of said
     entire heart is an aortic valve, a mitral valve, a pulmonary valve, a tricuspid
     valve, a right atrium, a left atrium, a right ventricle, a left ventricle, a cardiac
     patch, septum, a coronary vessel, a pulmonary artery, and a pulmonary vein.
30            8.      The decellularized organ of claim 1, wherein said organ is a
     kidney.
              9.      The decellularized organ of claim 8, wherein said kidney
     comprises a substantially intact glomerular structure.
                                             33

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
              10.    A solid organ, comprising said decellularized organ of claim 1,
     and a population of regenerative cells attached thereto.
 5            11.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said solid organ comprises
     multiple histological structures including blood vessels.
              12.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said decellularized organ is
     a heart, a kidney, a liver, or a lung.
10
              13.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said decellularized organ is
     a heart.
              14.    The solid organ of claim 13, wherein said solid organ exhibits
15   contractile activity.
              15.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein the number of said
     regenerative cells attached to said decellularized organ is at least about 1,000.
20            16.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein the number of said
     regenerative cells attached to said decellularized organ is about 1,000 cells/mg
     tissue to about 10,000,000 cells/mg tissue.
              17.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said regenerative cells are
25   pluripotent cells.
              18.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said regenerative cells are
     embryonic stem cells or a subset thereof, umbilical cord cells or a subset thereof,
     bone marrow cells or a subset thereof, peripheral blood cells or a subset thereof,
30   adult-derived stem pr progenitor cells or a subset thereof, tissue-derived stem or
     progenitor cells or a subset thereof, mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) or a subset
     thereof, skeletal muscle-derived stem or progenitor cells or a subset thereof,
     multipotent adult progentitor cells (MAPC) or a subset thereof, cardiac stem
                                            34

WO 2007/025233                                                         PCT/US2006/033415
      cells (CSC) or a subset thereof, or multipotent adult cardiac-derived stem cells or
      a subset thereof.
               19.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said regenerative cells are
 5    cardiac fibroblasts, cardiac microvasculature endothelial cells, or aortic
      endothelial cells.
              20.     The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said regenerative cells are
     allogeneic or xenogeneic to said decellularized organ.
10
              21.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said solid organ is to be
     transplanted into a patient and wherein said regenerative cells are autologous to
     said patient.
15            22.    The solid organ of claim 10, wherein said solid organ is to be
     transplanted into a patient and wherein said decellularized organ is allogeneic or
     xenogeneic to said patient.
              23.    A method of making an organ, comprising
20                   providing said decellularized organ of claim 1, and contacting
     said decellularized organ with a population of regenerative cells under
     conditions in which said regenerative cells engraft, multiply and/or differentiate
     within and on said decellularized organ.
25            24.    The method of claim 23, wherein said regenerative cells are
     injected into said decellularized organ.
              25.    The method of claim 23, wherein said decellularized organ is a
    heart, a kidney, a liver, spleen, pancreas, or a lung.
30
              26.    A method of decellularizing an organ, comprising:
                     providing said organ;
                     cannulating said organ at one or more cavities, vessels, and/or
    ducts, thereby producing a cannulated organ; and
                                           35

WO 2007/025233                                                        PCT/US2006/033415
                     perfusing said cannulated organ with a first cellular disruption
     medium via said one or more cannulations.
              27.    The method of claim 26, wherein essentially the entire vascular
 5   tree is contacted with the first cellular disruption medium.
              28.    The method of claim 26, wherein said organ is a heart, a kidney, a
     liver, spleen, pancreas, or a lung.
10            29.    The method of claim 26, wherein said perfusion is multi
     directional from each cannulated cavity, vessel, and/or duct.
              30.    The method of claim 26, wherein said cellular disruption medium
     comprises at least one detergent.
15
              31.    The method of claim 30, wherein said detergent is selected from
     the group consisting of SDS, PEG, or Triton X.
              32.    The method of claim 26, further comprising perfusing said
20   cannulated organ with a second cellular disruption medium via said more than
     one cannulations.
              33.    The method of claim 32, wherein said first cellular disruption
     medium is an anionic detergent and wherein said second cellular disruption
25   medium is an ionic detergent.
              34.    The method of claim 33, wherein the anionic detergent is SDS
     and wherein said ionic detergent is Triton X.
30            35.    The method of claim 26, wherein said perfusing is for about 2 to
      12 hours per gram of organ tissue.
              36.    Decellularized vascular mammalian tissue, comprising
                                           36

  WO 2007/025233                                                           PCT/US2006/033415
                        decellularized extracellular matrix of said tissue, wherein said
        extracellular matrix comprises an exterior surface, and wherein said extracellular
        matrix, including the vascular tree, substantially retains the morphology of said
        extracellular matrix prior to decellularization, and wherein said exterior surface
   5   is substantially intact.
                37.    The decellularized tissue of claim 36, wherein said tissue is
       cadaveric.
 10            38.     The decellularized tissue of claim 36, wherein said tissue is spinal
       cord, trachea, or a joint or portion thereof.
               39.     Decellularized avascular mammalian tissue, comprising
                       decellularized extracellular matrix of said tissue, wherein said
 15   extracellular matrix comprises an exterior surface, and wherein said extracellular
      matrix substantially retains the morphology of said extracellular matrix
                                                                                  prior to
      decellularization, and wherein said exterior surface is substantially
                                                                             intact.
              40.     The decellularized tissue of claim 39, wherein said tissue is
20    cartilage or cornea.
              41.     The decellularized tissue of claim 39, wherein said tissue is
     cadaveric.
                                              37

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
