                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a method comprising: receiving geo-referencing and time
tracking data of a locatee communicator device; obtaining permission from the locatee
communicator device for access of a locator communicator device to information regarding
the geo-referencing and time-tracking data associated with the locatee communicator device;
analyzing the geo-referencing and time-tracking data received from the locatee communicator
device; and outputting an alert to the communication network for transmittal to the locator
communicator device when the actual travel path of the locatee communicator device
deviates from an expected travel path, or the locatee communicator device is located outside
a specified spatial range, or the locatee communicator device does not arrive at a location by
a specified time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device arrives at a location by a
specified time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device is present at a specified geo
referenced area, or the locatee communicator device is not present at a specified geo
referenced area.

                                    INTERACTIVE ADVISORY SYSTEM
                                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 [0001]      Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an admission that
 such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
 [0001a] During recent years, the demand for detailed information, such as for example weather
   information, has risen sharply. Personal computers and communication devices have increased
  the demand for more information because of their power to gather, manipulate, transmit and
  receive data. As a result, specialized information and value-added services are in great
  demand. End users no longer desire to gather, manipulate and evaluate raw data. For
  instance, nowhere is this condition more apparent than with weather services across North
  America.
  [0002] Years ago, radio and television broadcasters recognized an increasing demand for
  weather information from their audience, and thus increased the number of on-air weather
  segments as a means for increasing market ranking. Today, the demand for specific content
  in weather information has exceeded the ability of broadcasters to meet this demand. Virtually
  every facet of business and personal activities are continually influenced by the weather, good
 or bad.
 [0003] In the United States as in most countries, a governmental agency (the National Weather
 Service in the United States), has the primary responsibility of generating weather products for
 the general public.      These products, such as advisories, statements, and forecasts are
 generated and made available to third parties, such as broadcasters, newspapers, internet web
 sites, paging companies and others who, in turn, distribute them to the public. However, this
 chain of data custody is one way.
 [00041 Today's lifestyles are fast-paced and sophisticated. Requests for detailed weather
 information for specific applications outnumber the governments' ability to process them.
 However, adhering to tfieir mandated responsibility, the National Weather Service generates
the general products for public consumption tiice daily. This condition forces the public to
interpret general and outdated advisories to meet their needs. Often, this interpretation is made
erroneously. Even worse, these products are usually regional or national in scope, and may
not apply to a particular location where various local activities are underway.
[0005] By way of example, weather wamings are broadcast by radio stations across the United
States. These warnings identify certain weather impacts within a specified area. In most
cases, the warning area includes one or more counties, covering dozens to hundreds of square
miles. Most often, these threats (such as severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, etc.), only impact
a very small zone within the warning area. These threats also move rapidly. As Impacts
approach specific zones, they are in fact, moving away from other zones, inside the total
warning area. Essentially, the existing reporting system is insufficient to specificallyidentify and

                                               2
adequately warn of personal risk. Furthermore, if the threat is imminent, the existing
system cannot and does not provide preventive measures for each user near or at the
threat. Thus, by default, distant or unaffected users are placed "on alert" unnecessarily
when the threat may be moving away from their location.
[0006]Another common example further clarifies the problem. A family, excited to
attend the championship softball game this upcoming weekend, closely monitors the
local weather forecast. All week-long the forecast has advised fair to partly cloudy
weather for game day. Early on game day, the forecast changes to partly cloudy, with a
thirty percent chance for late afternoon showers. The family decides to attend the
game, believing that the chances for rain are below their perceived risk level. Unknown
to the family at midday, some clusters of showers are intensifying, and will place
dangerous lightning over the game field. While the morning weather report was not
completely inaccurate, the participants and spectators are exposed to risk. If later
asked, it is likely the family members did not hear or remember the weather forecast.
They also failed to link their limited knowledge of the weather to their own needs and
risk exposure. They did not monitor changing weather events. Most likely, they had no
ability to monitor developing risk at the game. Clearly, these people were forced to
interpret outdated, limited information as applied to their specific application.
[0007] Therefore, a need exists for a system to automatically and continuously provide
consumer customized reports, advisories, alerts, forecasts and warnings relevant to a
consumer-defined level of need or dynamic spatial location.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
comprising:
        receiving geo-referencing and time-tracking data of a locatee communicator
device;
        obtaining permission from the locatee communicator device for access of a
locator communicator device to information regarding the geo-referencing and time
tracking data associated with the locatee communicator device;
        analyzing the geo-referencing and time-tracking data received from the locatee
communicator device; and
        outputting an alert to the communication network for transmittal to the locator
communicator device when the actual travel path of the locatee communicator device
deviates from an expected travel path, or the locatee communicator device is located
outside a specified spatial range, or the locatee communicator device does not arrive at
a location by a specified time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device arrives at a
location by a specified time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device is present at
a specified geo-referenced area, or the locatee communicator device is not present at a
specified geo-referenced area.

                                             3
[0009] Optionally, the geo-referencing and time-tracking data or other information
received from the locatee communicator device may include a unique identification code
identifying the locatee communicator device.
[0010]The geo-referencing and time-tracking data may include an intended destination
for the locatee communicator device.
[0011]The geo-referencing and time-tracking data may include a time of departure for
the locatee communicator device.
[0012]The geo-referencing and time-tracking data may include an estimated time of
arrival for the locatee communicator device to arrive at the intended destination.
[0013]The geo-referencing and time-tracking data may include a departure location, an
intended destination, and an expected travel path between the departure location and
the intended destination.
[0013a] In some embodiments, the specified spatial range is a distance.
[0013b] Optionally, the method may further comprise: receiving information categorizing
the specified geo-referenced area as an area where the locatee communicator device is
either permitted to be located or is not permitted to be located.
[0013c] Optionally, the method may further comprise comparing the geo-referencing
and time-tracking data to one or more of an expected location, expected route, specified
spatial range, expected time of arrival, and specified geo-referenced area.
[0013d] Optionally, the method may further comprise storing a user profile associated
with a locatee that includes information about the locatee and information about the
locatee communicator device.
[0013e] Optionally, the method may further comprise outputting at least some of the
information about the locatee or the locatee communicator device to a communication
network for transmittal to the locator communicator device.
[0013f] Optionally, the method may further comprise storing a user profile associated
with a locator that includes information about the locator and the locator communicator
device.
[0013g] The alert may be a text message displayable on the locator communicator
device.

                                              3a
[0013h] In some embodiments, the specified spatial range, specified time of arrival, or
specified geo-referenced area are received from the locator communicator device.
[0013i] Optionally, the method may further comprise outputting at least some of the
geo-referencing and time-tracking data to a communication network for transmittal to
the locator communicator device.
[0013j] According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computerized system comprising:
       a communicator location database that stores geo-referencing and time-tracking
data of a locatee communicator device;
       an analysis unit that:
              obtains permission from the locatee communicator device for access of a
locator communicator device to information regarding the geo-referencing and time
tracking data associated with the locatee communicator device;
              analyzes the geo-referencing data and time-tracking data received from
the locatee communicator device; and
              outputs an alert to the communication network for transmittal to the locator
communicator device when the actual travel path of the locatee communicator device
deviates from an expected travel path, or the locatee communicator device is located
outside a specified spatial range, or the locatee communicator device does not arrive at
a location by a specified time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device arrives at a
location by a specified time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device is present at
a specified geo-referenced area, or the locatee communicator device is not present at a
specified geo-referenced area.
[0013k] The geo-referencing and time-tracking data may include an intended
destination for the locatee communicator device, an estimated time of arrival for the
locatee communicator device to arrive at the intended destination, a time of departure
for the locatee communicator device, a departure location, or an expected travel path
between the departure location and the intended destination.
[00131] Optionally, the specified spatial range, specified time of arrival, or specified geo
referenced area are received from the locator communicator device.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS
                                   OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an interactive weather advisory system constructed
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

                                             3b
[0015] FIG.2 is a coordinate system illustrating a spatial location identifier and a spatial
range identifier utilized by versions of an embodiment of the present invention.
[0016] FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an interactive advisory system constructed in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0017] FIG. 4 is a block diagram of an interactive weather advisory system constructed
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0018] FIG. 5 is a block diagram of an interactive advisory system constructed in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

                                                    4
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
  [0019] Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to FIG. I shown therein in block
 diagram form, is one embodiment of the invention in the form of an interactive weather advisory
 system constructed in accordance with the present invention. The weather advisory system 8
  is provided with a broadcast network 10 for selectively transmitting Individualized weather output
 signals to remote communicator devices 11. The broadcast network 10 includes a weather
 analysis unit 12, a user input database 14, a communicator location database 16, and a
 communication network 20. The weather analysis unit 12 receives real-time weather data from
 a weather information database 21. The weather information database 21 can be located at
 the broadcast network 10, or remotely from the broadcast network 10. The weather analysis
 unit 12, the user input database 14, the communicator location database 16, the weather
 information database 21, and the communication network 20, interrelate and communicate via
 signal paths 22, 24, 26, 28, 30 and 32.
 [0020] The user input database 14 permits a plurality of users to input data corresponding to
 the weather reports, advisories or forecasts such that individualized weather reports, advisories
 or prediction of events can be transmitted to each individual user. The user input database 14
 contains data representative of at least one user-defined parameter correlated to each one of
 a plurality of users.      In one version of the present invention, each of the user-defined
 parameters includes various information related to weather output signals, such as a spatial
 range Identifier, a user profile, one or more weather content identifiers for identifying particular
 weather patterns, one or more time identifiers for identifying particular times or time intervals
that a user may desire a weather product, a spatial location fixed or dynamic code, and a spatial
 location identifier for identifying particular spatial locations of interest to the user if the spatial
location fixed or dynamic code indicates that the spatial location is to be fixed. The user profile
in each of the user-defined parameters includes at least a user identifier code for identifying a
particular communicator device 11 associated with a particular user.
[0021] For instance, the user identifier code could be a mobile telephone number identifying
one of the communicator devices 11, which in this instance could be a mobile telephone or a
pager, for example. The weather content identifier could be a computer code to identify one
or a variety of weather conditions or events such as tornadoes, thunderstorms,
                                                                                           hail storms,
lightning storms, showers, snow storms, blizzards, high winds, winds aloft, rapidly rising or
rapidly falling barometric pressure or other such weather patterns or conditions. The time
identifier desirably could be a computer code for identifying the particular time, times, or time
intervals the user desires the interactive weather advisory system 8 to communicate weather
data to the user or to monitor the real-time weather data for a particular time and/or date. The

                                                      5
    spatial location identifier 26 could be a computer code identifying a
                                                                                particular predetermined
    spatial location such as, by way of example but not limitation, a longitude
                                                                                   and latitude anywhere
    in the world, a town, a county, a township, address, zip code, altitude and
                                                                                   combinations thereof.
    [0022] As discussed above, the spatial location identifier identifies
                                                                             a particular spatial location
    anywhere in the world and/or altitude above sea level. The spatial
                                                                             range identifier identifies a
    particular spatial range surrounding the spatial location identifier.
                                                                            Each of the users can select
   the spatial location identifier and the spatial range identifier so
                                                                        as to receive weather forecasts
   and/or weather advisories or any other weather information for
                                                                        the spatial location identified by
   the spatial location identifier, and within the spatial range
                                                                       Identified by the spatial range
   identifier.
   [0023] For example, referring to FIG. 2, shown therein is
                                                                  a coordinate system illustrating four
   spatial location identifiers and four spatial range identifiers
                                                                     selected by different users of the
   present invention. That is, one of the users selects the spatial
                                                                         location identifier (X1, Y1, Z1),
   and the spatial range identifier (RI). Another one of the
                                                                    users selects the spatial location
   identifier (X2, Y2, Z2), and the spatial range identifier (R2).
   [0024] The user who selected the spatial location identifier
                                                                    (XI, Y1, ZI) and the spatial range
  identifier R1 will receive weatherproducts and advisories concerning
                                                                             the spatial range identified
  by the spatial location identifier (X1, Y1, Zi) and the spatial
                                                                    range identifier R1, as predefined
  in his user input database. The user who selected the spatial
                                                                    location Identifier (X2, Y2, Z2) and
  the spatial range identifier R2 will receive weather products
                                                                       and advisories concerning the
  spatial range identified by the spatial location identifier (X2,
                                                                       Y2, Z2) and the spatial range
  identifier R2, and as predefined in the user Input database
                                                                        14. Likewise, the users who
 selected the spatial location identifiers (X3, Y3, Z3) and
                                                                  (X4, Y4, Z4) and the spatial range
 identifiers R3 and R4 will receive weather products and advisories
                                                                           concerning the spatial range
 identified by the spatial location identifiers (X3, Y3, Z3),
                                                                  (X4, Y4, Z4) and the spatial range
 Identifier R3, R4, and as predefined in the user input database 14.
 [0025] The magnitudes of the spatial range identifiers R1,
                                                                   R2, R3 and R4 can be different or
the same. In addition, the magnitudes of the spatial range
                                                                   identifiers R1, R2, R3 and R4 can
vary widely and are desirably selected by the users.
[0026] Particular users can input the user-defined parameters
                                                                      into the user input database 14
via any suitable method. For example, the user input database
                                                                          14 is desirably configured to
acquire its data from a variety of optional sources preferably
                                                                        chosen by the user, such as
verbally through a telephone customer service network, a mobile
                                                                         phone network equipped with
wireless application protocol technology, email,
                                                     a personal digital assistant, a laptop computer,
or an interactive web site. Furthermore, users could mail
                                                                 the user-defined parameters to the

                                                   6
broadcast network 10, and an individual at the broadcast network 10 could input the user
defined parameters directly into the user input database 14 via a keyboard or other similar input
device.    In one embodiment, the user inputs the selected information into the user input
database 14 via the user's communicator device 11.
[0027] The weather information database 21 contains real-time weather data for at least the
spatial locations contained in the communicator location database 16 and the spatial locations
identified by the spatial location identifier in the user input database 14. The weather analysis
unit 12 generates predictions of all weather events based on the real-time weather data. The
weather information database 21 desirably receives its real-time weather data from at least one
of a plurality of possible resources such as, by way of example but not limitation, government
weather information resources, privately operated weather information resources, and other
various meteorological resources. The real-time weather data could also be either input directly
at the physical location of the weather information database 21 or input via a mobile phone
network, a mobile phone network with wireless application protocol, the Internet, aircraft
communication systems, email, a personal digital assistant, a laptop computer, regular
computer, or other wireless devices.
[0028] Alternatively, the weather information database 21 may contain weather prediction data
and/or weather forecast data for at least the spatial locations contained in the communicator
location database 16 and the spatial locations identified by the spatial location identifier in the
user input database 14. In this embodiment, the weather analysis unit 12 generates predictions
of all weather events based on the real-time weather data.
[0029] The communicator location database 16 is an optional feature of the present invention,
and Is enabled via the signal path 22 when the user requests real-time weather advisories or
prediction of events at the dynamic spatial location of the user's communicator device 11. The
communicator location database 16 is continuously updated such that the communicator
location database 16 contains real-time data indicative of the spatial locations of the
communicator devices 11. In one embodiment, the user identifier code in the user's profile is
transmitted to the communicator location database 16 via the signal path 22.                   The
communicator location database 16 desirably receives data from the communicator devices 11
identified by the user identifier codes via at least one of a variety of possible resources such as
a mobile phone network, a mobile phone network equipped with the wireless application
protocol technology, global positioning satellite technology, the Internet, loran technology, radar
technology, transponder technology or any other type of technology capable of tracking the
spatial location of a communicator device 11            and communicating the location of such
communicator device 11 to the communicator location database 16 of the broadcast network

                                                    7
    10.  Preferably, the communicator location database 16 is continuously
                                                                                     and automatically
    updated as to the location of each of the communicator devices
                                                                          11, such as by the wireless
   application protocol technology. Alternatively, the communicator location
                                                                                  database 16 may be
   updated upon demand of a user as to the location of each of the
                                                                           communicator devices 11,
   such as by the wireless application protocol technology.
   [0030] The communication network 20 can be, by way of example but
                                                                               not limitation, a mobile
   phone network, a mobile phone network with wireless application
                                                                             protocol technology, the
   Internet, a facsimile network, a satellite network (one or two-way),
                                                                          a RF radio network, or any
   other means of transmitting information from a source to an end
                                                                         user.
   [0031] The communicator devices 11 can be bidirectional or
                                                                        unidirectional communicator
   devices. The communicator devices 11 can be, by way of example
                                                                          but not limitation, a portable
   device, such as a mobile telephone, a smart phone, a pager, a
                                                                      laptop computer or a personal
  digital assistant, or any other electronic device capable of receiving
                                                                           weather information data.
  Furthermore, the communicator device.11 can be incorporated
                                                                      into an object that is utilized or
  accessible by the user, such as a helmet, an automobile, or
                                                                   an airplane, for example. While
  only three communicator devices 11 are represented in FIG.
                                                                   1 for purposes of illustration, the
  interactive weather advisory system 8 contemplates the utilization
                                                                               of a large number of
  communicator devices 11.
  [00321 The weather analysis unit 12 receives the data
                                                               in the user input database 14, the
 communicator location database 16, and the weather information
                                                                        database 21 from the signal
 paths 24, 26, and 28. The weather analysis unit 12 can
                                                                   be, by way of example but not
 limitation, a computer desirably programmed to automatically
                                                                     and continuously compare the
 data in. the user input database 14, communicator location
                                                                        database 16, and weather
 information database 21 so as to generate an individualized
                                                                   weather output signal including
weather information within the spatial range identified by the
                                                                    spatial range identifier for each
user-defined parameter in the user input database 14. Tie
                                                                        weather output signals are
transmitted to the communication network 20 via the signal path 32.
(00333 The weather analysis unit 12 gathers the real-time weather
                                                                              data from the weather
Information database 21. The term "real-time weather data", as
                                                                     used herein, refers to weather
data which is continually updated so as to indicate current or near
                                                                       current information. In some
instances, the "real-time weather data" may be delayed
                                                             by relatively small increments of five
minutes, 15 minutes, or 30 minutes, for example. In other
                                                                 instances, the "real-time weather
data" can be provided with substantially no delay. It Is
                                                                expected that the increments will
become smaller as communication networks and weather related
                                                                        technology become faster.

                                                       8
     [0034] The weather analysis unit 12 generates predictions of all
                                                                                 weather related events and
     compares past and current events contained in the weather Information
                                                                                       database 21 (such as
     future position, strength, trajectory, etc.), to construct a
                                                                        four-dimensional database. Three
    dimensions of the database define a physical location on
                                                                          or above the earth's surface (the
    spatial location identifier (X1, Y1, Zi). The fourth dimension
                                                                            is time - past, present or future
    (identified as T1, T2, T3, T4). By employing high speed
                                                                     computer processors in real-time, the
    weather analysis unit 12 compares all events (past, current
                                                                        and predicted), at specific positions
    (X1, Y1, Z1, TI) with identical user supplied data (the
                                                                    user input database - X1, Yi, ZI, R1,
    T1), and identifies any matches (weather output signals)
                                                                    to the user through the communication
    network 20 and communication devices 11.
    (0035] The communication network 20 receives the weather
                                                                               output signals and the user
   identification codes via the signal paths 32 and 30.
                                                                In response thereto, the communication
   network 20 transmits the individualized weather output
                                                                  signals to the communicator devices 11
   associated with the user identification codes via the signal
                                                                         paths 34a, 34b and 34c, such that
   each user receives the individualized weather information
                                                                       that was requested.
   [0036] The signal paths 34a, 34b and 34c refer
                                                            to any suitable communication link which
   permits electronic communications. For example,
                                                            the signal paths 34a, 34b and 34c can be
  point-to-point shared and dedicated communications,
                                                               infra red links, microwave links, telephone
  links, CATV links, satellite and radio links and fiber optic
                                                                     links.
  [0037] Various combinations of weather information
                                                                can be incorporated into the user input
  database 14 so as to provide the user with selected
                                                                 and specific weather information. For
  example, a user traveling in his automobile may wish
                                                              to be informed by the interactive weather
  advisory system 8 concerning all hailstorms for
                                                       an area within a 2.5 mile radius of his vehicle
  as he is traveling from his point of origin to his destination.
                                                                       The user, for example, through his
 smart phone (communicator device 11) in his vehicle
                                                                   working in conjunction with a mobile
 phone network (communication network 20) with wireless
                                                                     application protocol, Inputs selected
 information into the user input database 14; namely,
                                                                  the user's smart phone number (user
 identifier code), hail (weather content identifier),
                                                      2.5 mile radius (spatial range identifier 24) and
spatial location dynamic (spatial location of the
                                                      user's smart phone is then automatically and
continuously monitored), and the like.
[0038] The interactive weather advisory system 8
                                                             then monitors weather information and
predictions of events in the weather analysis unit
                                                         12, and transmits the individualized weather
output signal to the user's smart phone if a hailstorm
                                                            is detected or is highly likely to form within
a 2.5 mile radius of the vehicle along the vehicle's
                                                          path of travel, for the duration of travel.

                                                   9
   [00391 The individualized weather output signal can be an audio, video, textural
                                                                                                    and/or
   graphical data signal. For example, the individualized weather output signal can
                                                                                           be a.WAV file
   or other suitable file containing an animated representation of a real or hypothetical
                                                                                                 individual
   speaking an individualized message to the user, in the example given above,
                                                                                      the individualized
   message may be that the hailstorm Is 2.5 miles ahead of the vehicle and thus,
                                                                                         the user should
   consider stopping for a short period of time so as to avoid the hailstorm.
                                                                                      Alternatively, the
  individualized message may be that the hailstorm is 2.5 miles ahead of the
                                                                                      vehicle and thus,
  the user should consider stopping until further notified by another individualized
                                                                                          weather output
  signal so as to avoid the hailstorm. In other words, the weather analysis
                                                                                  unit 12 may transmit
  another individualized weather output signal to the user via the communication
                                                                                         network 20 and
  the communicator devices 11 notifying the user that the weather condition
                                                                                       identified by the
  weather content identifier has passed or is beyond the spatial location identified
                                                                                            by the spatial
  range identifier.
  (00401 As another example, a user may desire to be informed of all real-time
                                                                                     weather data and
  predictions of events within a particular spatial range of a particular dynamic
                                                                                        spatial location.
  For instance, the user may be interested in whether his aircraft is at risk
                                                                              of icing as he flies from
  Oklahoma City to Tulsa, Oklahoma. To provide a suitable level of comfort
                                                                                  and safety, the user
  may wish to be informed of icing conditions within 10 miles of the dynamic
                                                                                    spatial location of
  his aircraft. The user, for example, through his smart phone or other suitable
                                                                                          avionic device
  (communicator device 11) in his aircraft working in conjunction with a mobile
                                                                                         phone network
  (communication network 20) with wireless application protocol, inputs selected
                                                                                        information into
 the user input database 14; namely, the user's smart phone number (user
                                                                                 identifier code), icing
 (weather content Identifier), 10 mile radius (spatial range identifier 24), and
                                                                                   the spatial location
 dynamic. The spatial location of the user's smart phone or other suitable
                                                                               avionic device is then
 automatically and continuously monitored as the aircraft traverses through
                                                                                 time and space from
 (X1, Y1, Z1, TI) to (X4, Y4, Z4, T4). The interactive weather analysis
                                                                           unit 12 then monitors the
 real-time weather data in the weather information database 21 and the predicted
                                                                                            events in the
weather analysis unit 12 so as to transmit the individualized weather
                                                                          output signal to the user's
smart phone or other avionic device identifying, if icing is detected or is highly
                                                                                           likely to form
 relevant to a 10 mile radius of the aircraft.
[0041] As yet another example, perhaps the user is only interested
                                                                             in a particular weather
patten at a particular fixed spatial location and within a particular spatial
                                                                                range irrespective of
the immediate location of the communicator device 11. To accomplish
                                                                             this user's request, the
broadcast network 10 does not utilize the communicator location database
                                                                                  16. The user inputs
selected information into the user input database 14, namely
                                                                  the user's phone number (user

                                                     10
    identifier code), the code for the particular weather
                                                               pattern in which the user is interested
    (weather content identifier), the spatial range around the spatial
                                                                             location in which the user is
   interested (spatial range identifier), and the spatial location
                                                                         in which the user is interested
   (spatial location identifier). The weather analysis unit
                                                                12 then monitors the real-time weather
   data in the weather information database 21 and the
                                                              predicted events in the weather analysis
   unit 12 so as to transmit the individualized weather information
                                                                         concerning the weather pattern
   in the spatial location and range requested by the user.
   [00421 As a further example, perhaps the user is
                                                              only interested in a particular weather
   condition at the spatial location and within a particular
                                                                spatial range at a particular time. The
   user inputs selected information into the user input
                                                              database 14, namely, the user's phone
   number (user identifier code), the code for the particular
                                                                   weather pattern in which the user is
  interested (weather content identifier), the spatial range
                                                                around the spatial location in which the
  user is interested (spatial range identifier and the spatial
                                                                 location in which the user is interested
  spatial location identifier) and the time and date (time
                                                               identifier) that the user to wishes to be
  informed of the weather conditions at the spatial location
                                                                   of interest. In response thereto, the
  weather analysis unit 12 monitors the real time weather
                                                                    data from the weather information
  database 21 for the spatial location and range Identified
                                                                     by the spatial range identifier and
  spatial location identifier to determine the probability
                                                           of the particular weather pattern occurring
  at the time identified by the time identifier. The weather
                                                                 analysis unit 12 sends, via the signal
  path 32, the individualized weather output signal
                                                            to the communication network 20. The
 communication network 20 receives the user identifier
                                                               code, via signal path 30, from the user
 input database 14 and transmits the weather output
                                                           signal received from the weather analysis
 unit 12 to the particular communicator device 11
                                                        identified by the user identifier code. Thus,
 the user receives the individualized weather information
                                                               concerning the spatial location, spatial
 range and time requested by the user.
 [00431 The signal paths 22,24, 26, 28, 30 and 32 can be logical
                                                                          and/or physical links between
 various software and/or hardware utilized to .implement
                                                                  the present invention. It should be
 understood that each of the signal paths 22, 24,
                                                       26, 28, 30 and 32 are shown and described
separately herein for the sole purpose of clearly Illustrating
                                                                       the information and logic being
communicated between the individual components
                                                          of the present invention. In operation, the
signal paths may not be separate signal paths
                                                   but may be a single signal path. In addition, the
various information does not necessarily have
                                                   to flow between the components of the present
invention in the manner shown in FIG. 1. For example,
                                                                 although FIG. 1 illustrates the user
identifier code being transmitted directly from
                                                 the user input database 14 to the communication
network 20 via the signal path 30, the user identifier
                                                         code can be communicated to the weather

                                                        11
     analysis unit 12 via the signal path 24 and then communicated
                                                                               to the communication network
     20 via the signal path 32.
     [0044] It should be understood that although the user has
                                                                       been described as manually inputting
     the user identifier code into the user input database
                                                                      14, the user identifier code could be
     automatically input into the user input database 14
                                                                 by the communicator device 11.
     [0045] Once the user-defined parameters have
                                                          been input into the user input database 14, the
     user-defined parameters can be analyzed by the
                                                             weather analysis unit 12 along with weather
    content identifiers for purposes of targeted marketing.
                                                                   A plurality of vendors 36 can be provided
    access to the weather analysis unit 12 of the broadcast
                                                                    network 10 via a plurality of signal paths
    38a, 38b, and 38c. The vendors 36 can independently
                                                                          input search information into the
    weather analysis unit 12 for compiling a data set
                                                            of information which is useful to the vendors
    36.
    [0046] For example, a particular vendor 36a, who
                                                               is in the business of selling snow blowers,
   may input a weather content identifier and time
                                                          identifier into the weather analysis unit 12 so
   as to request a list of all spatial locations in the
                                                        United States which are expected to receive at
   least 10 inches of snow in the next week. The weather
                                                                    analysis unit 12 would then compile the
   data set of all spatial locations in the United States
                                                                 which is expected to receive at least 10
   Inches of snow in the next week based on at
                                                        least one weather content identifier, the time
   identifier, and the real-time weather data stored
                                                          in the weather information database 21. The
   data set is then output to the vendor 36a. Based
                                                             on the data set, the vendor 36a may send
  advertisements or additional snow blowers to the
                                                            areas identified in the data set.
  [0047] As another example, the particular vendor
                                                             36a, who is in the business of selling snow
  blowers, may input a weather content identifier and
                                                             time identifier into the weather analysis unit
  12 so as to request a list of all user profiles identifying
                                                                    users who resided in spatial locations
  in the United States which are expected to receive
                                                            at least 10 inches of snow in the next week.
 The weather analysis unit 12 would then compile
                                                           the data set of all spatial locations in United
 States which is expected to receive at least 10
                                                        inches of snow in the next week based on at
 least one weather content Identifier, the time identifier,
                                                                      the user profiles, and the real-time
 weather data stored in the weather information
                                                       database 21. The data set is then output to the
vendor 36a. Based on the data set, the vendor
                                                       36a may send advertisements to the users who
are identified in the data set.
[0048] It is envisioned that users will subscribe
                                                           to the services provided by the broadcast
network 10. In this regard, the broadcast network
                                                            10 mayor may not charge a service fee to
the users. In addition, some services may
                                                   be provided by the broadcast network 10
                                                                                                     for one
charge and additional services may be provided
                                                         at an enhanced charge.

                                                     12
    [0049] To save processing power, the weather analysis unit 12 may
                                                                                    periodically determine
   which communicator devices 11 are turned off or out of range. Once this
                                                                                     has been determined,
   the weather analysis unit 12 would then not generate any individualized weather
                                                                                             output signals
   for the communicator devices 11 which are turned off or out of range.
                                                                                    Once a particular one
   of the communicator devices 11 is turned on or comes within range,
                                                                                the weather analysis unit
   12 would then attempt to generate individualized weather output signals
                                                                                   for such communicator
   devices 11. In other words, to save processing power the weather
                                                                               analysis unit 12 may only
   generate individualized weather output signals for the communicator
                                                                                    devices 11 which are
   active and within range.
   [0050] The weather analysis unit 12 can be located at the broadcast
                                                                               network 10. Alternatively,
  the weather analysis unit 12 can be separate from the remainder of
                                                                               the broadcast network 10
  and provided as a service to the broadcast network 10.
  [0051] In one preferred embodiment, rather than or in addition to
                                                                                the user providing user
  defined parameters to the user input database 14, the user input
                                                                           database 14 is programmed
  to provide a plurality of pre-defined user profiles with each of
                                                                         the pre-defined user profiles
  directed to an activity designated by the user optionally including data
                                                                                  and time of the activity.
  The activity can be a business, personal or recreational need. For example,
                                                                                        the business need
  can be any work dependent upon or impacted by weather conditions
                                                                                   to carry out a desired
  activity, such as, but not limited to a rancher, contractor, farmer, or painter.
                                                                                       The personal need
 can be any activity positively or negatively impacted by weather conditions,
                                                                                           such as but not
 limited to, duties performed by a homeowner, such as mowing
                                                                         the lawn, painting the house,
 trimming trees, or the like. The recreational need can be any recreational
                                                                                          or other outdoor
 activity dependent upon weather conditions, such as but not limited
                                                                             to golfing, cycling, boating,
 hiking, fishing, or snow skiing.
 [0052] In this case, the user selects or provides an activity or
                                                                            category to the user input
database 14, The user input database 14 retrieves pre-defined information
                                                                                         concerning such
activity or category and stores or links such pre-defined information
                                                                            with the user's user profile.
The broadcast network 10 and/or weather analysis unit 12 then functions
                                                                                     as set forth above to
provide weather alerts or other information concerning the information contained
                                                                                              in the user's
user profile.
[0053] For example, a user may plan on golfing on a particular weekend
                                                                                      during the hours of
9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. In this case, the user would select
                                                                      the pre-defined user profile for
"golfing", and the time frame of such planned
                                                   activity. The location of planned activity can
                                                                                                      also
be entered into the user input database 14, or the location
                                                                 of the communicator device 11 can
be monitored by the communicator location database 16. The
                                                                     information contained in the pre-

                                                      13
     defined user profile is input into the user input database
                                                                       14 and output weather alerts and
     forecasts are then generated as discussed above.
     [0054] The pre-defined user profiles are determined
                                                                by member(s) of the broadcast network
     10 and/or weather analysis unit 12, who identify weather
                                                                    conditions which are typically suitable
     and/or adverse to each designated activity. Thus, for
                                                                 example, a pre-defined user profile for
     "golfing" will contain data such as wind conditions,
                                                                 lightning, rain, temperature and other
     conditions which will positively or negatively impact
                                                               a golfing activity. The data in the pre
    defined user profile can be determined either before
                                                             or after selection of the activity by the user.
    [0055] If desired by the user, the broadcast network
                                                                10 and/or weather analysis unit 12 can
    assume the responsibility for generating the appropriate
                                                                    size of the spatial range identifier (as
    in the case with the user profile, or pre-defined
                                                        user profile). Alternatively, the spatial range
    identifier can be determined by the nature of the
                                                        weather event. In the latter case, member(s)
   of the broadcast network 10 and/or weather
                                                      analysis unit 12 would determine an "area of
   concern"around each weather event that would
                                                       or could occur and the communication network
   20 would then send notifications to any user or
                                                        communicator device 11 that may come into
   contact with the area of concern.
   [0056] For example, a tornado may be % mile
                                                         wide and the broadcast network 10 and/or
  weather analysis unit 12 would, based upon
                                                        its experience, knowledge and/or abilities,
   determine that the area of concern would be
                                                        1 % miles wide and 8 miles long - moving
  northeasterly. Any user contained within the
                                                      user input database 14 would be notified, as
  discussed above, if the user's location comes
                                                     into contact with the "area of concern".
  [0057] OTHER USES OF THIS SYSTEM
  [0058] Shown in FIGS. 3-4, are advisory systems
                                                          8a and 8b which can be used for delivering
  other types of Information or for more accurately
                                                             predicting weather related events. The
 advisory systems 8a and 8b are similar in construction
                                                                  and function to the weather advisory
 system 8, except as described below. For purposes
                                                             of clarity, similar components have been
 provided with the same numeric prefix, and different
                                                              alphabetic suffix.
 [0059] The advisory system 8a is provided with
                                                     a broadcast network I a. In one embodiment
 the broadcast network 10a is used for transmitting
                                                           individualized real-time work assignments
from, for example, an employer to an employee.
                                                        The broadcast network 10a Is provided with
an analysis unit 12a, a communicator location
                                                    database 16a, and communicator devices 1
                                                                                                        la
and 11 b. The communicator device 11 a is
                                                referred to herein as an "employer communicator
device", and the communicator device 11 b is
                                                 referred to herein as an "employee communicator
device." The communicator location database
                                                   16a is continuously updated to contain real-time
data indicative of the spatial locations of the communicator
                                                                     devices 1Ia and 11 b. In a similar

                                                        14
     manner as described above, the analysis unit 12a
                                                               makes comparisons between user profiles
     (as represented by a box 80a), dynamic locations
                                                            stored in the communicator location database
     16a, fixed locations as represented by a box 82a
                                                           and job assignments entered into the analysis
    unit 12a from one of the employer communicator
                                                             devices 1 Ia. The system 8a may be further
    described as an employer system 40a and an
                                                        employee system 42a to delineate the types of
    information being conveyed within the system 8a.
    [0060] For example, an employer uses the
                                                        employer communicator device 11a to input
    employee information and/or criteria into an
                                                    employee's user profile such as, for example,
                                                                                                        job
    location, job schedule, skill set requirements,
                                                    personality traits, and other criteria as represented
   by a box 84a. Further, the employer inputs work
                                                          or job assignment criteria into the analysis unit
    12a such as, for example, job location, job schedule,
                                                                skill set requirements, personality traits,
   and other criteria. The employer inputs
                                                     the above criteria into one of the employer
   commun icator devices 11 a which may be, forexample,
                                                                  a computer, a personal digital assistant
   (PDA), a cellular phone, a combination cellular
                                                      phone/PDA, or any other device which may then
  transmit the employee information and/or job
                                                    assignment criteria to the analysis unit 12a.
                                                                                                      The
  analysis unit 12a may be, for example, a computer
                                                               or a web server. The analysis unit 12a
  matches the employee user profile criteria with
                                                       the work assignment criteria to generate a data
  set of at least one individualized work assignment.
  [0061] The individualized real-time work assignment
                                                                 is transmitted to one of the employee
  communicator devices 11 b based upon the
                                                  matching of the work assignment criteria with
                                                                                                       the
 employee user-profile. The data set can be
                                                  transmitted to the employer communicator
                                                                                                   device
  11 a such that the employer can review the
                                                     data set to assign the work assignment to
                                                                                                         a
 particularone of the employees, or alternatively,
                                                        the analysis unit 12a can automatically assign
 the work assignment to a particular one of
                                                    the employees and thereby transmit the work
 assignment to the employee's communicator
                                                        device 11 b without any intervention by the
 employer. The employee's communicator device
                                                           11 b may be, for example, a PDA, a cellular
phone, a combination cellular phone/PDA,
                                                 a pager, or any other device in which the analysis
unit 12a or the employer may communicate information
                                                                  to the employee.
[0062] The user profile for each of the
                                                 employees includes Information relating
                                                                                                  to the
employee's traits such as, for example,
                                                personality, sales style, dress, skill set,
                                                                                                location,
schedule, or any other quality or trait relating
                                                     to the particular employee. Further, the
                                                                                                    user
profile is preferably accessible by both
                                               the employer communicator device 11 a
                                                                                                and the
employee communicator device 11b. However,
                                                      it is preferred that the employer communicator
device II a have access to the entire user profile,
                                                       while the employee communicator device
                                                                                                     11 b

                                                        15
      only have access to a subset of the user profile.
                                                                 Thus, the user profile accessible by the
      employer system 40a may differ from the user profile
                                                                  accessible by the employee system 42a.
      [0063] For example, the user profile accessible by the employer system
                                                                                     40a may include traits
     related to a particular employee that remain hidden
                                                               or unknown to the employee. For instance,
     the employee may have access to information
                                                            stored in his user profile such as location,
     schedule, skill set, and other criteria as represented
                                                                by a box 86a and may be provided access
     to his user-profile to update information as
                                                        needed. In addition to the above-mentioned
    employee-accessible information, the employer
                                                          may have access to the employee user profile
    to input and access employee traits such
                                                   as personality, sales style, dress, and skill
                                                                                                     set and
    may be provided access to update this information
                                                               as needed.
    (00641 In another embodiment, the system
                                                      8a is used to deliver goods based upon real-time
    location of a carrier of the goods. More
                                                        specifically, the system 8a can be used
                                                                                                           to
   accommodate purchasers of products ordered
                                                         online in order to quickly and efficiently deliver
   goods to the purchaser's specified location.
   [0065] The analysis unit 12a is loaded with employee
                                                                 user profiles and locations. The analysis
   unit 12a identifies delivery persons (employees)
                                                           located near a purchaser's location. Part of
   the employee's user profile can include an inventory
                                                                 of the goods on the employee's delivery
  truck. The employee need not know what inventory
                                                              is located on his delivery truck, but only his
  delivery destination.
  [0066] For example, a purchaser may order
                                                    fresh produce online. The employer may input
                                                                                                         the
  purchaser's order (work assignment) into the
                                                     employer communicator device 11 a (which inputs
  the work assignment into the analysis unit
                                                   12a) so that the analysis unit 12a may determine
  which delivery person may efficiently deliver
                                                      the specified goods to the purchaser. Also,
                                                                                                          by
  ordering online, the purchaser may send his
                                                   order directly to the analysis unit 12a such that
                                                                                                        the
 analysis unit 12a automatically determines
                                                  the appropriate delivery person to deliver goods
                                                                                                          to
 the purchaser and sends the assignment to
                                                           the delivery person via the employee's
 communicator device 11 b. Further, the employer
                                                          updates the user profile to track and monitor
 the precise inventory located on the employee's
                                                         delivery truck, the inventory being delivered,
 and any inventory that may be stolen from the
                                                       delivery truck.
 [0067]    In yet another embodiment, thesystern.8a
                                                         can be used for sending salesmen to the field
for soliciting new clients. For example, a company
                                                             may receive an inquiry from a sales lead.
Information about the lead is entered into the
                                                      analysis unit 12a as a job assignment from the
employer communicator device 11 a. The
                                                 analysis unit 12a then determines the appropriate
salesman to send to the lead based on information
                                                            stored in the salesman's user-profile. The
salesman's user-profile may include information
                                                        such as salesman location, personality traits,

                                                16
 dress style or other attributes used to determine which salesman may be appropriate to send
 to the lead.
 [0068] Shown in FIG. 4 is another advisory system 8b constructed in accordance with the
 present invention. The advisory system 8b includes a broadcast network 1Ob. The broadcast
 network 1Ob is similar in construction and function as the broadcast network 10 discussed
 above, except that the broadcast network 10b includes individualized sensor networks 48a
 having weather and ,environmental sensors 48b which are specifically associated with
 geographic areas associated with predetermined users.
 [0069] For example, the weather and environmental data collection sites are tremendously
 sparse in growing areas of the world. In the state of Iowa, only a minimal number of National
 Weather Service data collection points exist. The scarcity of weather data hinders farmers
 because a dense grid of weather data points is non-existent in orderfor farmers to make critical
 decisions about their crops. For example, how do you know what 160-acre tract of land to
 fertilize when soil temperature data, crop moisture data, and chance of precipitation data is
 unavailable?
 [0070] The sensor network 48a includes temporary or permanent data collection sensors 48b
 which may be installed, for example, on a 10 acre to 40 acre grid on the land of a subscriber
 or user of the system 8b. Each sensor 48b may have a unique spatial range associated with
 it such as, for example, a five mile or twenty mile radius. The spatial range associated with
 each sensor 48b can be selected by the user and specified as a result of the sensor 48b type
 and purpose as well as the density of the sensor network 48a. For example, if the user is
 interested in soil moisture in order to schedule a fertilizer treatment, the spatial range
 associated with the chosen sensor 48b may be set, for example, at 375 feet. In another
example, the user may be interested in soil temperature for placing seeds in the ground and
the desired spatial range associated with the chosen sensor 48b may be, for example, 2,000
feet.     The user of the system 8b includes a user profile as discussed above, which is
supplemented with information regarding the sensors 48b associated with the user, e.g.,
Installed on or near the user's land. The sensors 48b transmit site-specific, individualized
information to the weather analysis unit 12b so that more detailed information can be used by
the weather analysis unit 12b in generating the site-specific weather information for the user.
[0071] The sensors 48b can be any type of sensor which generates information usable for
forecasting weather, transmitting currentweather conditions, transmitting current environmental
conditions, and/or forecasting environmental conditions. For example, the sensors 48b can be
used to sample or record such parameters as, but not limited to, air temperature, humidity,

                                                      17
      precipitation, solar radiation, wind speed and direction, soil
                                                                        temperature, soil moisture, and/or
     chemical constituents in the soil.
     [0072] For example, a user may enter into his user profile
                                                                      types of information the user would
     like the sensor network 48a to monitor such as, forexample,
                                                                         temperature, moisture and/or soil
     conditions. The weather analysis unit 12b receives
                                                              the sensor data from the sensor network
    48a and transmits information to the user via the
                                                           user's communicator device 50b based on
    information entered into his user profile. The
                                                         user may also choose a specific sensor for
    monitoring a specific area at any given time by modifying
                                                                     his user profile.
    [0073] Further, the system 8b may be used to transmit
                                                                  real-time road condition information to
    the weather analysis unit 12b to enhance the weather
                                                                 information transmitted to the users of
    the system 8b. Although the sensors 48b can include
                                                               their own power source such as a battery
    or solar power source, the sensors 48b are preferably
                                                                positioned on a device which has its own
   electrical power source. For example, a temporary
                                                             or permanent sensor or sensors 48b may
   be placed in various locations along a roadway such
                                                             as on a vehicle, on or beside the roadway,
   on a billboard, gas pump, cell phone tower or
                                                        sign alongside the roadway or railway, on a
   delivery vehicle(s) such as, for example, UPS and/or
                                                             FedEx, or on the streetlights. If the sensor
   48b is placed on the roadway, it may be placed
                                                      in the concrete or asphalt. If placed beside the
   roadway, the sensor 48b may be placed in, for example,
                                                                       a ditch. The sensor(s) 48b may
  detect, for example, moisture, temperature or any
                                                            other weather or environmental condition
  associated with the roadway, sign alongsldethe
                                                      roadway, on streetlights, oron delivery vehicles
  such as, for example, UPS and/or FedEx, or on
                                                       railway cars. Alternatively, the sensor(s) 48b
  may be used to detect traffic conditions or any
                                                         other condition associated with a particular
  roadway or railway.
 10074] For example, each sensor 48b may be
                                                     placed 100 feet away from the nearest sensor
 in order to create the sensor network 48a for determining
                                                                   conditions for a specified area along
 a roadway or railway. Further, the sensor(s) 48b
                                                           may be placed on various cellular phone
 towers so that users of a particular cellular phone system
                                                                 associated   with the tower may access
 various conditions using the system 8b.
 [0075] Each of the weather sensors 48a can
                                                   also include a system such as a GPS system
                                                                                                      for
determining the current location of such weather
                                                          sensor so that the current location of the
weather sensor is transmitted to the weather analysis
                                                               unit 12b.
(00761 One skilled in the art will recognize many
                                                        uses of the system 8b. For example, when
sensor data is collected by sensors 48a positioned
                                                             on moving vehicles along roadways or
railways, the weatheranalysis unit 12b can transmitsuch
                                                                 weather information to communicator
devices 1I lb located in close proximity
                                              to where the sensor data Is being collected.
                                                                                                   Thus,

                                                      18
     assuming that a Federal Express truck is located five
                                                                miles from a subscriber, the information
     collected from the sensor on the Federal Express truck
                                                                   can be transmitted to the subscriber.
     [0077] Shown in FIG. 5, is an advisory system 8c which can
                                                                        be used for delivering other types
    of information. The advisory system 8c is similar in
                                                              construction and function to the advisory
    system 8a, except as described below. For purposes
                                                               of clarity, similar components have been
    provided with the same numeric prefix, and different alphabetic
                                                                             suffix.
    [0078] The advisory system 8c is provided with a
                                                         broadcast network 1Oc. In one embodiment,
    the broadcast network 1Oc is used for locating at least
                                                               one known or unknown individual located
    remotely from the broadcast network 1Oc. The broadcast
                                                                        network 1Oc is provided with an
    analysis unit 12c, a communicator location database
                                                             16c, and at least one communicator device
    11 c and preferably at least two communicator devices
                                                                II c and I1d. The communicator device
    11c is referred to herein as a "locator communicator
                                                            device", and the communicator device 11d
   is referred to herein as a "locatee communicator
                                                         device." The term "locator" as used herein
   shall mean a person trying to locate a locatee. The
                                                             term "locatee" as used herein shall mean
   a person to be located. The communicator location
                                                              database 16c is continuously updated to
   contain real-time data indicative of the spatial locations
                                                                of the locator communicator device 11 c
  and the locatee communicator device 11d.
   [0079] In a similar manner as described above,
                                                          the analysis unit 12c makes comparisons
  between user profiles (including information indicative
                                                                 of unique personal traits) entered into
  the analysis unit 12c from one of the remote
                                                          communicator devices 11c. and 1ld (as
  represented by a box 80c), dynamic locations stored
                                                               in the communicator location database
  16c, and fixed locations as represented by a box 82c.
                                                              The system 8c may be further described
  as a locator system 40c and a locatee system 42c
                                                           to delineate the types of information being
 conveyed within the system 8c.
 [0080] For example, a locator utilizes the locator
                                                        communicator device 11 c to input his or her
 locator information and/or criteria into his or her user
                                                               profile such as, for example, personal
 characteristics (i.e., height, weight, age, eye color, hair
                                                               color, gender, race, occupation and the
 like) personality traits (i.e., outgoing, social drinker,
                                                            non-smoker, and the like), a photograph,
 an audio presentation by the locator, a video presentation
                                                                         of and/or.by the locator, an
 audio/video presentation of and/or by the locator, and
                                                              other user information and/or criteria as
represented by a box 84c. Additionally or alternatively,
                                                                 the locator inputs desired criteria of a
locatee into the analysis unit 12c such as, for example,
                                                                  personal characteristics, personality
traits, proximity (including a spatial range identifier
                                                        indicating a distance from the locator's fixed
or dynamic location), or any other criteria. The
                                                     locator Inputs the above criteria into one of the
locator communicator devices 11 c which may
                                                    be, for example, a computer, a personal digital

                                                       19
    assistant (PDA), a cellular phone, a combination cellular phone/PDA,
                                                                                   or any other device which
    may then transmit the locator criteria to the analysis
                                                               unit 12c, The analysis unit 12c may be,
   for example, a computer or a web server. The analysis
                                                                       unit 12c matches the locatee user
   profile criteria with the locator user profile criteria and/or
                                                                     locator desired criteria to generate a
   data set of locatee user profiles that match the locator criteria.
   [0081] The locatorcriteria is transmitted to one of the locatee
                                                                         communicator devices 11d based
   upon the matching of the locator criteria with the locatee
                                                                      user-profile. The permission of the
   locatee may be obtained prior to forwarding any information
                                                                           about the locatee to the locator
   communicator device 11 c, if desired. Once the
                                                         locatee's permission is received (if required),
  the data set can be transmitted to the locator communicator
                                                                          device 11 c such that the locator
  can review the data set to determine a locatee to contact
                                                                    by text message or any other means
  of communication, or alternatively, the analysis unit 12c
                                                                  can automatically determine a locatee
  to contact and thereby transmit the text message or
                                                                 other means of communication to the
  locatee's communicator device 11d without any intervention
                                                                            by the locator. The locatee's
  communicator device 11d may be, for example, a PDA, a
                                                                   cellular phone, a combination cellular
  phone/PDA, a pager, or any other device in which the analysis
                                                                               unit 12c or the locator may
  communicate Information to the locatee.
  [0082] The user profile for each of the locatees includes
                                                                     information relating to the locatee's
  personal characteristics such as, for example, height, weight,
                                                                        age, eye color, hair color, gender,
 race, occupation and the like and/or personality traits such
                                                                        as, for example, outgoing, social
 drinker, non-smoker, and the like, or any other quality or
                                                                   trait relating to the particular locatee.
 The locatee's user profile may additionally include a
                                                                 photograph of the locatee, an audio
 presentation by the locatee, a video presentation of and/or
                                                                          by the locatee, an audio/video
 presentation of and/or by the locatee, and other user information
                                                                             and/or criteria as represented
 by a box 86c.
 [0083] Once the locatee's user profile is downloaded
                                                              to a locator's communicator device 11 c,
the locator may add additional information relating
                                                                to the locatee such as the locator's
impression or opinion of the locatee or any other information
                                                                         the locator considers relevant to
the locatee. This additional information remains hidden
                                                                    from the locatee, however, may be
broadcast to additional users of the advisory system
                                                                  8c. For example, the user profile
accessible by the locator system 40c may Include
                                                            traits related to a particular locatee that
remain hidden or unknown to the locatee as represented
                                                                      by the box 86c. For instance, the
locatee may have access to information stored in his
                                                               user profile such as inputted personal
characteristics and/or personality criteria as represented
                                                                  by the box 86c and may be provided
access to his user-profile to update information as
                                                         needed. in addition to the above-mentioned

                                                    20
    locatee-accessible information, the locator may have access
                                                                           to the locatee user profile to
    access locatee traits such as personal characteristics and/or
                                                                        personality traits.
    [0084] For example, a locator may include in his user profile
                                                                      that he is single, white, male, age
    26, college student, non-smoker, and a light social
                                                        drinker. The locator desires to locate white,
    single, females that share the same personal characteristics
                                                                         and/or personality traits. The
    locator may download the user profiles entered by
                                                            other users ("locatees") of the advisory
   system 8c. The locator may send the locatee a text message
                                                                     or other means of communication
   to make further contact with the locatee. In this embodiment,
                                                                          the present invention may be
   considered a flirt-service, dating service, or match-making
                                                                    service.
   [0085] In another embodiment, the system Bc is used
                                                                 to locate and provide entertainment
   among users with similar user profiles. Examples
                                                        of such users include movie goers, gamers,
   or other persons interested in a particular segment
                                                              of the entertainment industry. More
  specifically, the system 8c can be used to locate individuals
                                                                         having similar interests in the
  entertainment industry and provide desired entertainment
                                                                  for such individuals. The system 8c
  can be used to locate individuals relative to a designated
                                                              spatial range inputted into the analysis
  unit 12c by the locator. Alternatively, the system 8c can
                                                               be used to locate individuals/locatees
  regardless of the locatee's location.
  [0086] In the same manner as described above, the
                                                           locator utilizes the locator communicator
  device 11 c to input his or her locator information and/or
                                                              criteria into his or her user profile such
  as, for example, entertainment interests; desired and/or
                                                              designated spatial range (based upon
  a fixed or dynamic location), and other user information
                                                                and/or criteria as represented by the
  box 84c. Additionally or alternatively, the locator inputs
                                                                desired criteria of a locatee into the
 analysis unit 12c such as, for example, entertainment
                                                               interests, desired and/or designated
 spatial range, and any other criteria desired by the user.
                                                                  The analysis unit 12c matches the
 locator information with the locatee information in the same
                                                                       manner as described above to
 locate and match other users of the system Bc having
                                                              similar interests in the entertainment
 industry and/or a proximity within the area designated by the
                                                                      locator.
 [0087] For example, a locator wishing to play a game
                                                             such as, for example, tag, with other
users of the system 8c may input his locator user profile
                                                               information Into the analysis unit 12c
via his locator communicator device 11 c in the same manner
                                                                     as described above. Examples
of such locator user profile information include, for example,
                                                                      personal characteristics and/or
personality traits, and/or a desired spatial range for
                                                         locating locatees. In addition, the locator
may input desired criteria of the locatee Into the analysis
                                                             unit 12c such as, for example, desired
personal characteristics and/or personality traits,
                                                       desired locatee location, and/or a desired
spatial range for locating locatees.

                                                      21
   [0088] A locator wishing to play a game of tag, for example, inputs information (via the locator
   communicator device 11 c) relating to the type of game, the locator's personality traits and/or
   personal characteristics, into the analysis unit 12c and designates his desire to locate locatees
  within a spatial range of , e.g.,50 miles from his location. Using the world as a "gameboard" for
   participating in the designated game of tag, the analysis unit 12c matches the locatee user
   profile criteria with the locator user profile criteria and/or locator desired criteria to generate a
  data set of locatee user profiles that match the locator criteria.
  [0089] Based upon this data set of locatees, the locator may choose locatees/participants to
  participate in the designated game and send a message such as, for example, a text message,
  via his locator communicator device 11 c such as "Tag, you're it" to the designated locatee via
  the locatee communicator device 11d. Alternatively, the system 8c can automatically determine
  a locatee to contact and thereby transmit the text message or other means of communication
  to the locatee's communicator device 1ld without any intervention by the locator.
  [0090] In addition to locating and matching users having similar interests in the entertainment
  industry, the system 8c is used by users/gamers to play or participate in a game such as, for
  example, a video game and the like, and/or interact with other users/gamers to play a desired
  or designated game. In the same manner as described above, the system 8c allows the user
  to interact with another individual/user involved in the game based upon the location (static or
  dynamic) of each user involved in a particular game (including a spatial range identifier
  indicating a distance from a user's fixed or dynamic location).
 [0091] Additionally, the locator may use the system 8c to retrieve (via his locator communicator
 device 11 c) specific locations of entertainment (i.e., movie theaters, casinos and the like) or
 specific events (i.e., a particular movie, a particular gaming event, and the like). The system
 8c may also be used to alert the user of entertainment events based upon his user profile.
 [0092] In another embodiment, the system 8c is used to track an individual ("locatee") based
 upon real-time location of the Individual with or without the aid of a spatial range identifier. More
 specifically, the system 8c can be used to locate individuals traveling within a specified spatial
 range and notify a user when a particular individual has traveled outside of the specified spatial
 range. Additionally, the system 8c can be used to locate individuals regardless of their location
or location relative to a designated spatial range.
(0093] The analysis unit 12c is loaded with a locatee user profile. Additionally, the analysis unit
 12c may be loaded with a desired spatial range or path in which the locatee intends or is
instructed to travel, I.e., the locatee Intended range of travel and/or the locatee destination.
                                                                                                     The
analysis unit 12c tracks the location of the locatee communicator device 11d and may
                                                                                                alert the
locator communicator device 11 c when the locatee communicator device I1d travels
                                                                                                 outside

 of the locatee's intended range of travel and/or the locatee's intended destination. Additionally,
 the analysis unit 12c may alert the locator communicator device 11c when the locatee
 communicator device 11d travels to an area that is geo-referenced as a "good area" or "bad
 area." The system 8c may require the consent of the locatee to track the locatee via the
 locatee communicator device 11d, if desired.
 [0094] For example, a parent may desire to track the travel of his child via the system 8c. The
 parent may input the child's intended destination (with or without a desired spatial range) into
 the locator communicator device 11c (which inputs the child's intended destination into the
 analysis unit 12c) so that the analysis unit 12c may track the travel of the child via the locatee
 communicator device 1ld and may additionally alert the parent via his locator communicator
 device 11 c if the child should travel outside the desired spatial range, if designated. Also, the
 analysis unit 12c may alert the parent via his locator communicator device 11 c if the child
 travels into a geo-referenced "good area" (i.e., a school and the like) or "bad area" (i.e., a
 drinking bar and the like).
 {0095] Additionally, a user may keep track (via his locator communicator device 11c) of a
 friend's ("locatee's") location by tracking the friend's locatee communicator device 11d in the
 same manner as described above in locations such as, for example, a mall, a football stadium,
 and the like. In this embodiment, a desired spatial range may or may not be designated.
Additionally, the system 8c may require the consent of the locatee to track the locatee via the
 locatee communicator device 11 d, If desired.
 [0096] An optional aspect of the systems 8, 8a, 8b, and 8c is the performance of "operations
research." The term "operations research" as used herein shall mean the geo-referencing of
an object coupled with the time-tracking of the object. The term "geo-referencing" as used
herein shall mean the determination of an object's position, 01, in relation to an X1,Y1,
coordinate (expected location or expected route) and/or an Xl,Yl,Zl, coordinate (expected
location or expected route). The term "time-tracking" as used herein shall mean an initial
departure time (Td) of an individual and/or object coupled with a predicted and/or expected
arrival time (Te) of the individual and/or object. Operations research is applicable to each and
every embodiment of the present invention described herein.
[0097] Operations research may be employed in various fields such as, for example, mobile
commercial services (i.e., fleet management, asset location, and field sales and service)
entertainment services (i.e., gaming services, individual location services, and flirting and other
"social" services), security services (i.e., child-locator services, and mobile roadside assistance),
Information services (i.e., points-of-interest identification, GPS navigation support, weather

                                                       23
     information and data, and traffic information and data), or any
                                                                                     other field desiring the
     employment and application of operations research.
     [0098] For example, a child along with his locatee communicator
                                                                                device 11d leaves his home
     (X1, YI) at 8:00 a.m. (Td) expected to arrive at school (X2, Y2)
                                                                              at 8:30 a.m. (Te). The child's
    parent, via his locator communicator device I Ic, may keep track
                                                                               of the child's location (01) by,
    for example, inputting (1) a unique identification code
                                                                           identifying the child's locatee
    communicator device I Ic, (2) the child's intended destination
                                                                            (i.e., school) (with or without a
    desired spatial range), (3) the child's time of departure (Td)
                                                                         and (4) the child's estimated time
    of arrival (Te) into the locator communicator device 11 c. The locator
                                                                                   communicator device 1Ic
    then inputs the unique identification code identifying the
                                                                    child's locatee communicator device
    11 c, (2) the child's intended destination (i.e., school)
                                                               (with or without a desired spatial range),
    (3) the child's time of departure (Td) and (4) the child's
                                                                  estimated time of arrival (Te) into the
   analysis unit 12c so that the analysis unit 12c may track
                                                                   the travel of the child via the locatee
   communicator device 11d and may additionally alert the
                                                                    parent via his locator communicator
   device 11 c if the child should travel outside the desired
                                                                spatial range, if designated, and/or may
   alert the parent should the child not arrive at school by
                                                                  the inputted estimated time of arrival
   (Te) and/or may alert the parent as to the child's actual
                                                                     time of arrival (Ta) to his intended
  destination and/or a deviation of the child's location from
                                                                 the expected location and/or expected
  route, if designated. Also, as discussed above, the analysis
                                                                          unit 12c may alert the parent via
  his locator communicator device 11 c if the child travels
                                                                into a geo-referenced "good area" (i.e.,
  a school and the like) or "bad area" (i.e., a drinking bar
                                                                 and the like).
  [0099] As anotherexample, an employer uses the employer
                                                                        communicator device 11 a to input
 the employee's intended destination (i.e., delivery destination)
                                                                          (with orwithout a desired spatial
 range) into the employer communicator device 11
                                                            a (which inputs the employee's intended
 destination into the analysis unit 12a), the employee's
                                                                       time of departure (Td) and the
 employee's estimated time of arrival (Te) so that the analysis
                                                                          unit 12a may track the travel of
 the employee via the employee communicator device
                                                                   11 b and may additionally alert the
 employer via his employer communicator device 11
                                                           a ifthe employee should travel outside the
 desired spatial range, if designated, and/or may alert
                                                               the employer should the employee not
arrive at the delivery destination by the inputted estimated
                                                                   time of arrival (Te) and/or may alert
the employer as to the employee's actual time of
                                                        arrival (Ta) to his intended destination and/or
a deviation of the employee's location from the expected
                                                                         route, if designated. Also, as
discussed above, the analysis unit 12a may alert
                                                        the employer via his employer communicator
device I Ia if the employee travels into a geo-referenced
                                                                  "good area" or "bad area."

                                                    24
  [0100] The entire contents of U.S. Patent No. 6,505,123, U.S. Patent No. 6,754,585, U.S.
  Patent No. 6,836,730 and U.S. Serial No. 11/035,654 filed on January 14, 2004, are expressly
  incorporated herein by reference.
  [01011 From the above description, it is clear that the present invention is well adapted to carry
 out the objects and to attain the advantages mentioned herein as well as those inherent in the
 invention. While presently preferred embodiments of the invention have been described
                                                                                                 for
 purposes of this disclosure, it will be readily understood that numerous changes may be made
 which will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are accomplished
 within the spirit of the invention disclosed.
                                                  CONCEPTS
 [0102]    As short summaries, this specification has disclosed at least the following broad
 [0103]    Concept 1. A method for locating at least one individual located remotely from a
broadcast network, comprising the steps of:
           receiving user-profile criteria from a communicator device associated with a locator;
           receiving user-profile criteria from a communicator device associated with a locatee;
           matching the user-profile criteria associated with the locator with user-profile criteria
associated with the locatee to generate a data set of users having similar user- profile criteria;
and
           transmitting the data set of users having similar user-profile criteria to a user based
upon the matching of the user-profile criteria associated with the locator with the user-profile
criteria associated with the locatee.
[0104]     Concept 2. The method of concept 1 wherein the user-profile criteria is input into a
communicator device.
[0105]     Concept 3. The method of concept 2 wherein the communicator device is selected from
the group consisting of a computer, a personal digital assistant, a cellular phone, and a
combination personal digital assistant/cellular phone.
[0106]     Concept 4. The method of concept 1 wherein the data set include at least two of the
inputted user-profile criteria and the user-profile criteria stored/contained in the user input
database, the method further comprising the step of:
           locating the individual based upon the results matching the inputted user-profile criteria
with the user-profile stored/contained in the user input database.
[0107]     Concept 5. The method of concept 1 wherein the data set includes at least two of the
inputted user-profile criteria and the user-profile criteria contained/stored in the user input
database, the method further comprising the step of:

                                                 25
                                                                                           communicator
           the analysis unit transmitting the locator criteria to one of the locatee
                                                                               user- profile.
devices based upon the matching of the locator criteria with the locatee
                                                                            permission is obtained prior
[0108] Concept 6. The method of concept 5 wherein the locatee's
                                                                               device.
to forwarding information about the locatee to the locator communicator
                                                              the locator criteria is transmitted to the
[0109] Concept 7. The method of concept 1 wherein
locatee via a locatee communicator device.
                                                                the locatee communicator device is
 [0110] Concept 8. The method of concept 6 wherein
                                                                                               phone, a
 selected from the group consisting of a personal digital assistant, a cellular
 combination personal digital assistant/cellular phone, and a pager.
                                                                            permission is obtained prior
 [0111] Concept 9. The method of concept 1 wherein the locatee's
 to transmitting user-profile criteria associated with the locatee.
                                                                               located remotely from a
 [0112]     Concept 10. A method for tracking at least one individual
 broadcast network, comprising the steps of:
                                                                                              a locatee
            receiving geo-referencing and time-tracking data associated with
  communicator device;
                                                                         received from a communicator
            analyzing geo-referencing data and time-tracking data
  device associated with a locatee; and
                                                                                    data to the locator
            transmitting the geo-referencing data and the time-tracking
  communicator device.
                                                                 the geo-referencing and time-tracking
  [0113] Concept 11. The method of concept 10, wherein
                                                                       communicator device.
  data include a unique identification code identifying the locatee
                                                                 the geo-referencing and time-tracking
  [0114] Concept 12. The method of concept 10, wherein
                                                                           device.
  data include an intended destination for the locatee communicator
                                                                  the geo-referencing and time-tracking
   [0115] Concept 13. The method of concept 10, wherein
                                                                      device.
   data include a time of departure for the locatee communicator
                                                                  the geo-referencing and time-tracking
   [0116] Concept 14. The method of concept 12, wherein
                                                                  communicator device to arrive at the
   data include an estimated time of arrival for the locatee
    intended destination.
                                                                    the locatee communicator device is
    [0117]    Concept 15. The method of concept 10, wherein
                                                                 and a personal data assistant.
    selected from the group consisting of a cellular telephone
                                                                                                    from a
                                                      at least one individual located remotely
    [0118] Concept 16. A method for tracking
    broadcast network, comprising the steps of:

                                                 26
          receiving   geo-referencing    and   time-tracking  data   associated    with   a  locatee
communicator device, the geo-referencing and time-tracking data including a departure location,
                                                                                   location, and the
an intended destination and an expected travel path between the departure
intended destination;
                                                                                  from the locatee
          analyzing geo-referencing data and time-tracking data received
communicator device; and
                                                                                                   of
          transmitting an alert to a locator communicator device when the actual travel path
the locatee communicator device deviates from the expected travel path.
                                                                       the context permits, the term
 [0119] Throughout this specification, including the claims, where
                                                                           are to be interpreted as
 "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising"
 including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other integers.

                                                 27
                                              CLAIMS
         1.      A method comprising:
         receiving geo-referencing and time-tracking data of a locatee communicator device;
         obtaining permission from the locatee communicator device for access of a locator
communicator device to information regarding the geo-referencing and time-tracking data
associated with the locatee communicator device;
         analyzing the geo-referencing and time-tracking data received from the locatee
communicator device; and
         outputting an alert to the communication network for transmittal to the locator
communicator device when the actual travel path of the locatee communicator device deviates
from an expected travel path, or the locatee communicator device is located outside a specified
spatial range, or the locatee communicator device does not arrive at a location by a specified
time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device arrives at a location by a specified time of
arrival, or the locatee communicator device is present at a specified geo-referenced area, or the
locatee communicator device is not present at a specified geo-referenced area.
         2.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the geo-referencing and time-tracking data or
other information received from the locatee communicator device includes a unique
identification code identifying the locatee communicator device.
         3.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the geo-referencing and
time-tracking data includes an intended destination for the locatee communicator device.
         4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the geo-referencing and
time-tracking data includes a time of departure for the locatee communicator device.
         5.       The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the geo-referencing and
time-tracking data includes an estimated time of arrival for the locatee communicator device to
arrive at the intended destination.

                                                  28
        6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the geo-referencing and
time-tracking data includes a departure location, an intended destination, and an expected travel
path between the departure location and the intended destination.
        7.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the specified spatial
range is a distance.
        8.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
        receiving information categorizing the specified geo-referenced area as an area where the
locatee communicator device is either permitted to be located or is not permitted to be located.
        9.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
        comparing the geo-referencing and time-tracking data to one or more of an expected
location, expected route, specified spatial range, expected time of arrival, and specified geo
referenced area.
        10.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
        storing a user profile associated with a locatee that includes information about the locatee
and information about the locatee communicator device.
        11.     The method of Claim 10, further comprising:
        outputting at least some of the information about the locatee or the locatee communicator
device to a communication network for transmittal to the locator communicator device.
        12.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
        storing a user profile associated with a locator that includes information about the locator
and the locator communicator device.
        13.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the alert is a text
message displayable on the locator communicator device.

                                                  29
         14.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the specified spatial
range, specified time of arrival, or specified geo-referenced area are received from the locator
communicator device.
         15.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
         outputting at least some of the geo-referencing and time-tracking data to a
communication network for transmittal to the locator communicator device.
         16.     A computerized system comprising:
         a communicator location database that stores geo-referencing and time-tracking data of a
locatee communicator device;
         an analysis unit that:
                 obtains permission from the locatee communicator device for access of a locator
communicator device to information regarding the geo-referencing and time-tracking data
associated with the locatee communicator device;
                 analyzes the geo-referencing data and time-tracking data received from the
locatee communicator device; and
                 outputs an alert to the communication network for transmittal to the locator
communicator device when the actual travel path of the locatee communicator device deviates
from an expected travel path, or the locatee communicator device is located outside a specified
spatial range, or the locatee communicator device does not arrive at a location by a specified
time of arrival, or the locatee communicator device arrives at a location by a specified time of
arrival, or the locatee communicator device is present at a specified geo-referenced area, or the
locatee communicator device is not present at a specified geo-referenced area.
         17.     The system of Claim 16, wherein the geo-referencing and time-tracking data
includes an intended destination for the locatee communicator device, an estimated time of
arrival for the locatee communicator device to arrive at the intended destination, a time of
departure for the locatee communicator device, a departure location, or an expected travel path
between the departure location and the intended destination.

                                                  30
        18.    The system of Claim 16 or Claim 17, wherein the specified spatial range,
specified time of arrival, or specified geo-referenced area are received from the locator
communicator device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
