Abstract
Methods and systems for generating an interactive communication session with a live
consultant that comprises: receiving a request to communicate with a live consultant
concerning at least one item for purchase. In response to the request, an interactive
communication session is generated between the live consultant and a customer. The
interactive communication session transmits live video images of the live consultant and the
at least item to the remote device. Live video images of a customer are transmitted and
received. At least one test is applied on the at least one item. The results generated by the at
least one a test is transmitted.

             METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PROVIDING AN INTERACTIVE
              COMMUNICATION SESSION WITH A REMOTE CONSULTANT
[001]   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[002]   This application is generally related to systems and methods for generating an
    interactive communication session with a remote jewelry consultant. The application
    also is generally related to generating a customized jewelry setting through an interactive
    design tool.
[003]   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[004]   FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a system in accordance with an aspect of the invention.
[005]   FIG. 2 is a pictorial block diagram of a system in accordance with an aspect of the
    invention.
[006]   FIG. 3a is a screenshot of the Inventory Search Page.
[007]   FIG. 3b is a screen shot of the advance search option of the Inventory Search Page.
[008]   FIG. 4a is a screen shot of the search results, after the user action of searching
[009]   FIG. 4b is a screen shot of the search results, after the user action of comparing.
[0010] FIG. 5 is a screen shot of a certified grading report, after the user action of selecting a
    certificate link.
[0011] FIG. 6 is a pictorial block diagram of a system in accordance with an aspect of the
    invention.
[0012] FIG. 7a illustrates an exemplary example of the customer's monitor during an
    interactive communication session.
[0013] FIG. 7b illustrates an exemplary example of the customer's monitor during an
    interactive communication session.
                                                 1

[0014] FIG. 7c illustrates an exemplary example of the customer's monitor during an
   interactive communication session.
[0015] FIG. 7d illustrates an exemplary example of the customer's monitor during an
   interactive communication session.
[0016] FIG. 8a illustrates an exemplary example of the interactive design tool.
[0017] FIG. 8b illustrates an exemplary example of the interactive design tool.
[0018] FIG. 8c illustrates an exemplary example of the interactive design tool, after the user
   action of selecting the tab for "head".
[0019] FIG. 8d illustrates an exemplary example of the interactive design tool, after the user
   action of selecting the tab for "band".
[0020] FIG. 8e illustrates an exemplary example of the interactive design tool, after the user
   action of selecting the tab for "shape".
[0021] DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0022] The following sections I - XI provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
[0023] I.  Terms
[0024] The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of matter,
   unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0025] The term "product" means a machine, manufacture and/or composition of matter,
   unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0026] The term "process" means a process, algorithm, method or the like, unless expressly
   specified otherwise.
[0027] Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently includes
   one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have an
   inherent antecedent basis in the mere description of a process, or in the mere recitation of
                                               2

   the term 'process' or a like term. Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or
    'steps' of a process has sufficient antecedent basis.
[0028] The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in this
   application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0029] The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
   "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain
   embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or
   more (but not all) embodiments of the invention", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0030] The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention, unless
   expressly specified otherwise.
[0031] The term "indication" is used in an extremely broad sense. An "indication" of a thing
   should be understood to include anything that may be used to determine the thing.
[0032] An indication of a thing may include an electronic message that identifies the thing
   (e.g., an identification of a widget by a serial number affixed to the widget, an
   identification of a widget by one or more characteristics of the widget). An indication of
   a thing may include information that may be used to compute and/or look-up a thing
   (e.g., information identifying a machine of which a widget is a part that may be used to
   determine the widget). An indication of a thing may specify things that are related to the
   thing (e.g., characteristics of the thing, a name of the thing, a name of a thing related to
   the thing). An indication of a thing may not specify things that are related to the thing
   (e.g., a letter "a" may be an indication of a widget of a computer system that is
   configured to interpret the letter "a" to identify the widget). An indication of a thing may
   include a sign, a symptom, and/or a token of the thing. An indication, for example, may
   include a code, a reference, an example, a link, a signal, and/or an identifier. An
   indication of a thing may include information that represents, describes, and/or otherwise
   is associated with the thing.
[0033] A transformation of an indication of a thing may be an indication of the thing (e.g., an
   encrypted indication of a thing may be an indication of the thing). An indication of a
                                                 3

    thing may include the thing itself, a copy of the thing, and/or a portion of the thing. An
    indication of a thing may be meaningless to a thing that is not configured to understand
    the indication (e.g., a person may not understand that a letter "a" indicates a widget but it
    may nonetheless be an indication of the widget because the computer system may
    determine the widget from the letter "a"). It should be understood that the fact that an
    indication of a thing may be used to determine the thing does not mean that the thing or
    anything else is determined. An indication of a thing may include an indication of any
    number of the thing unless specified otherwise. An indication of a thing may include an
    indication of other things (e.g., an electronic message that indicates may things).
    (Indication can be used as a very broad term in claim language. For example: receiving
    an indication of a financial instrument.)
[0034] The term "represent" means (1) to serve to express, designate, stand for, or denote, as
    a word, symbol, or the like does; (2) to express or designate by some term, character,
    symbol, or the like; (3) to portray or depict or present the likeness of, as a picture does; or
    (4) to serve as a sign or symbol of.
[0035] A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not imply
    that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an
    embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified
    otherwise. Similarly, the mere fact that two (or more) embodiments are referenced does
    not imply that those embodiments are mutually exclusive.
[0036] One embodiment of the invention may include or cover or embrace more than one
    other embodiment of the invention. For example, a first embodiment comprising
    elements a, b, and c may cover a second embodiment that comprises elements a, b, c, and
    d as well as a third embodiment covering elements a, b, c, and e. Similarly, each of the
    first, second, and third embodiments may cover a fourth embodiment comprising
    elements a, b, c, d, and e.
[0037] The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but not
    necessarily limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the
    sentence "the machine includes a red widget and a blue widget" means the machine
                                                  4

   includes the red widget and the blue widget, but may possibly include one or more other
   items as well.
[0038] The term "consisting of' and variations thereof mean "including and also limited to",
   unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the machine
   consists of a red widget and a blue widget" means the machine includes the red widget
   and the blue widget, but does not include anything else.
[0039] The term "compose" and variations thereof mean "to make up the constituent parts of,
   component of or member of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example,
   the sentence "the red widget and the blue widget compose a machine" means the machine
   includes the red widget and the blue widget.
[0040] The term "exclusively compose" and variations thereof mean "to make up exclusively
   the constituent parts of, to be the only components of, or to be the only members of',
   unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget
   and the blue widget exclusively compose a machine" means the machine consists of the
   red widget and the blue widget (i.e. and nothing else).
[0041] The terms "a", "an" and "the" refer to "one or more", unless expressly specified
   otherwise. Thus, for example, the phrase "a widget" means one or more widgets, unless
   expressly specified otherwise. Similarly, after reciting the phrase "a widget", a
   subsequent recitation of the phrase "the widget" means "the one or more widgets".
   Accordingly, it should be understood that the word "the" may also refer to a specific term
   having antecedent basis. For example, if a paragraph mentions "a specific single feature"
   and then refers to "the feature," then the phrase "the feature" should be understood to
   refer to the previously mentioned "a specific single feature." (It should be understood
   that the term "a" in "a specific single feature" refers to "one" specific single feature and
   not "one or more" specific single features.)
[0042] The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0043] The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything which may
   be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
                                                5

[0044] The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things (such as
   an enumerated list of things), means any combination of one or more of those things,
   unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a widget, a
   car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car,
   (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The
   phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean
   "one of each of' the plurality of things. For example, the phrase "at least one of a
   widget, a car and a wheel" does not mean "one widget, one car and one wheel".
[0045] Numerical terms such as "one ", "two ", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
   indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity
   indicated by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that
   numerical term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one
   widget", and therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
[0046] The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
   otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" covers both "based only on" and "based
   at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at least in
   part on". For example, the phrase "element A is calculated based on element B and
   element C" covers embodiments where element A is calculated as the product of B times
   C (in other words, A = B x C), embodiments where A is calculated as the sum of B plus
   C (in other words, A = B + C), embodiments where A is calculated as a product of B
   times C times D, embodiments where A is calculated as a sum of the square root of B
   plus C plus D times E, and so on.
[0047] The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. For example, the term "represents" does not mean "represents only", unless
   expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "the data represents a credit card
   number" covers both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data
   represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else".
[0048] The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that
   express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is explicitly
                                               6

   recited before the term "whereby". Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim,
   the clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific
   further limitations of the claim or otherwise restrict the meaning or scope of the claim.
[0049] The terms "e.g ", "such as" and like terms mean "for example", and thus do not limit
   the term or phrase they explain. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data
   (e.g., instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that
   "instructions" are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and
   also explains that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send
   over the Internet. However, both "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely
   examples of "data", and other things besides "instructions" and "a data structure" can be
   "data".
[0050] The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two or more
   things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own characteristic,
   and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example,
   the phrase "each of two machines has a respective function" means that the first of the
   two machines has a function and the second of the two machines has a function as well.
   The function of the first machine may or may not be the same as the function of the
   second machine.
[0051] The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase it
   explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over
   the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer
   sends over the Internet.
[0052] A numerical range includes integers and non-integers in the range, unless expressly
   specified otherwise. For example, the range "1 to 10" includes the integers from 1 to 10
   (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9, 10) and non-integers (e.g., 1.0031415926, 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
[0053] Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an explicit
   statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term or
   phrase does not mean instances of another such term or phrase must have a different
                                                  7

    meaning. For example, where a statement renders the meaning of "including" to be
    synonymous with "including but not limited to", the mere usage of the phrase "including
    but not limited to" does not mean that the term "including" means something other than
    "including but not limited to".
[0054] II. Determining
[0055] The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a price,
    determining a value, the determination of an object which meets a certain criterion) is
    used in an extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety
    of actions and therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing,
    deriving, investigating, looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data
    structure), rendering into electronic format or digital representation, ascertaining and the
    like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information), accessing
    (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining" can include
    resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
[0056] The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and therefore
    "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing, averaging and
    the like.
[0057] The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
    performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply
    that an algorithm is used.
[0058] The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used. For
    example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
[0059] The term "determining" may include "calculating". The term "calculating" should be
    understood to include performing one or more calculations. Calculating may include
    computing, processing, and/or deriving. Calculating may be performed by a computing
    device. For example, calculating a thing may include applying an algorithm to data by a
    computer processor and generating the thing as an output of the processor.
                                                 8

[0060] The term "determining" may include "referencing". The term "referencing" should
   be understood to include making one or more reference, e.g., to a thing. Referencing may
   include querying, accessing, selecting, choosing, reading, and/or looking-up. The act of
   referencing may be performed by a computing device. For example, referencing a thing
   may include reading a memory location in which the thing is stored by a processor.
[0061] The term "determining" may include "receiving". For example, receiving a thing
   may include taking in the thing. In some embodiments, receiving may include acts
   performed to take in a thing, such as operating a network interface through which the
   thing is taken in. In some embodiments, receiving may be performed without acts
   performed to take in the thing, such as in a direct memory write or a hard wired circuit.
   Receiving a thing may include receiving a thing from a remote source that may have
   calculated the thing.
[0062] III. Forms of Sentences
[0063] Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than
   one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as well
   as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim,
   the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to that limitation (e.g., "the
   widget"), this mere usage does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the
   feature, and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature (e.g.,
   "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than one widget).
[0064] When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as an
   adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified
   otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular
   feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term, but
   that ordinal number does not have any other meaning or limiting effect - it is merely a
   convenient name. For example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to distinguish it
   from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and
   "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other relationship between the
   two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both
                                                 9

   widgets. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before
   the term "widget" (1) does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other
   in order or location; (2) does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after
   any other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any
   other, as in importance or quality. The mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a
   numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example, the
   mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does
   not indicate that there are exactly two widgets.
[0065] When a single device, article or other product is described herein, in another
   embodiment more than one device or article (whether or not they cooperate) may
   alternatively be used in place of the single device or article that is described.
   Accordingly, the functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may
   alternatively be possessed by more than one device or article (whether or not they
   cooperate) in another embodiment.
[0066] Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described herein
   (whether or not they cooperate), in another embodiment a single device or article may
   alternatively be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For
   example, a plurality of computer-based devices may be substituted with a single
   computer-based device. In some embodiments, such a plurality of computer-based
   devices may operate together to perform one step of a process such as is common in grid
   computing systems. In some embodiments, such a plurality of computer-based devices
   may operate provide added functionality to one another so that the plurality may operate
   to perform one step of a process such as is common in cloud computing systems.
   (Conversely, a single computer-based device may be substituted with multiple computer
   based devices operating in cooperation with one another. For example, a single
   computing device may be substituted with a server and a workstation in communication
   with one another over the internet) Accordingly, the various functionality that is
   described as being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be
   possessed by a single device or article.
                                                10

[0067] The functionality and/or the features of a single device that is described may, in
   another embodiment, be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are
   described but are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus,
   other embodiments need not include the described device itself, but rather can include the
   one or more other devices which would, in those other embodiments, have such
   functionality or features.
[0068] IV. Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
[0069] Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present application)
   nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as limiting
   in any way the scope of the disclosed invention, is to be used in interpreting the meaning
   of any claim or is to be used in limiting the scope of any claim. An Abstract has been
   included in this application merely because an Abstract is required under 37 C.F.R. §
    1.72(b).
[0070] The headings of sections provided in the present application are for convenience only,
   and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.
[0071] Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are presented
   for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not intended to
   be, limiting in any sense. The disclosed invention is widely applicable to numerous
   embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art
   will recognize that the disclosed invention may be practiced with various modifications
   and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications.
   Although particular features of the disclosed invention may be described with reference
   to one or more particular embodiments and/or drawings, it should be understood that such
   features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings
   with reference to which they are described, unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0072] Though an embodiment may be disclosed as including several features, other
   embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all such features. Thus, for
   example, a claim may be directed to less than the entire set of features in a disclosed
                                                 11

   embodiment, and such claim would not be interpreted as requiring features beyond those
   features that the claim expressly recites.
[0073] No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present
   application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention
   claimed herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is
   either expressly stated to be so in this specification or (with respect to a claim and the
   invention defined by that claim) expressly recited in that claim.
[0074] Any preambles of the claims that recite anything other than a statutory class shall be
   interpreted to recite purposes, benefits and possible uses of the claimed invention, and
   such preambles shall not be construed to limit the claimed invention.
[0075] The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the invention.
   Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention which must be
   present in all embodiments.
[0076] All disclosed embodiments are not necessarily covered by the claims (even including
   all pending, amended, issued and canceled claims). In addition, a disclosed embodiment
   may be (but need not necessarily be) covered by several claims. Accordingly, where a
   claim (regardless of whether pending, amended, issued or canceled) is directed to a
   particular embodiment, such is not evidence that the scope of other claims do not also
   cover that embodiment.
[0077] Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
   continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
   contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and
   may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
   communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other
   machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in
   communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or
   more intermediaries. Devices are in communication with one another if they are capable
   of at least one-way communication with one another. For example, a first device is in
                                                12

   communication with a second device if the first device is capable of transmitting
   information to the second device. Similarly, the second device is in communication with
   the first device if the second device is capable of receiving information from the first
   device.
[0078] A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply
   that all or even any of such components or features are required. On the contrary, a
   variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible
   embodiments of the present invention. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no
   component or feature is essential or required.
[0079] Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a
   particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders.
   In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed
   does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The
   steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further,
   some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as
   occurring non-simultaneously (e.g., because one step is described after the other step).
   Moreover, the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that
   the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not
   imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention, and
   does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
[0080] Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does not
   imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
   embodiments within the scope of the described invention include other processes that
   omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is
   essential or required.
[0081] Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other products or
   methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods. For
   example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another business
                                                13

   model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the
   process.
[0082] Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components, aspects,
   qualities, characteristics and/or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the
   plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the
   scope of the described invention include other products that omit some or all of the
   described plurality.
[0083] An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that
   any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not
   imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly
   specified otherwise. For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, and a PDA"
   does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and
   does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any
   category.
[0084] An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that
   any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
[0085] All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
   embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
[0086] V. Computing
[0087] It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various processes
   described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general
   purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a
   processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more
   digital signal processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device),
   and execute those instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by
   those instructions. Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer
   programs, one or more scripts.
                                                14

[0088] The term "compute" shall mean to determine using a processor in accordance with a
   software algorithm.
[0089] A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units (CPUs),
   computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, graphics processing units
   (GPUs) or like devices or any combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g.,
   chip-level multiprocessing or multi-core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without
   Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration, simultaneous multithreading,
   microprocessor with integrated graphics processing unit, GPGPU).
[0090] A "computing device" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
   (CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, graphics card,
   mobile gaming device, or like devices or any combination thereof, regardless of the
   architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing or multi-core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor
   without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration, simultaneous
   multithreading).
[0091] Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
   performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a
   processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the
   process. For example, a description of a process is a description of an apparatus
   comprising a processor and memory that stores a program comprising instructions that,
   when executed by the processor, direct the processor to perform the method.
[0092] The apparatus that performs the process can include a plurality of computing devices
   that work together to perform the process. Some of the computing devices may work
   together to perform each step of a process, may work on separate steps of a process, may
   provide underlying services that other computing devices that may facilitate the
   performance of the process. Such computing devices may act under instruction of a
   centralized authority. In another embodiment, such computing devices may act without
   instruction of a centralized authority. Some examples of apparatus that may operate in
   some or all of these ways may include grid computer systems, cloud computer systems,
   peer-to-peer computer systems, computer systems configured to provide software as a
                                               15

   service, and so on. For example, the apparatus may comprise a computer system that
   executes the bulk of its processing load on a remote server but outputs display
   information to and receives user input information from a local user computer, such as a
   computer system that executes VMware software.
[0093] Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data) may
   be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media) in a
   number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware
   may be used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions
   that can implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of
   hardware and software may be used instead of software only.
[0094] The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the same,
   or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g., instructions,
   data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device. Such a
   medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile
   media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or
   magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random
   access memory (DRAM), which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission
   media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that
   comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or
   convey acoustic waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those
   generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common
   forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk,
   hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other
   optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of
   holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or
   cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a
   computer can read.
[0095] The term "tangible computer-readable medium" refers to a "computer-readable
   medium" that comprises a hardware component, such as optical or magnetic disks.
                                              16

[0096] Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data (e.g.
   sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from
   RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted
   and/or transmitted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as
   Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), wireless local area network communication defined by the
   IEEE 802.11 specifications whether or not they are approved by the WiFi Alliance, SAP,
   ATP, BluetoothTM, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and/or (iv) encrypted to
   ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
[0097] The term "database" refers to any electronically-stored collection of data that is stored
   in a retrievable format.
[0098] The term "data structure" refers to a database in a hardware machine such as a
   computer.
[0099] The term "network" means a series of points or nodes interconnected by
   communication paths. For example, a network can include a plurality of computers or
   communication devices interconnected by one or more wired and/or wireless
   communication paths. Networks can interconnect with other networks and contain
   subnetworks.
[00100]     The term "predetermined" means determined beforehand, e.g., before a present
   time or a present action. For example, the phrase "displaying a predetermined value"
   means displaying a value that was determined before the act of displaying.
[00101]     The term "condition" means (1) a premise upon which the fulfillment of an
   agreement depends, or (2) something essential to the appearance or occurrence of
   something else.
[00102]     The term "transaction" means (1) an exchange or transfer of goods, services, or
   funds, or (2) a communicative action or activity involving two parties or things that
   reciprocally affect or influence each other.
                                               17

[00103]     Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable
   medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium
   can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to
   perform the method. For example, a description of a process is a description of a
   computer-readable storage medium that stores a program comprising instructions that,
   when executed by a processor, direct the processor to perform the method.
[00104]     Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the
   described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer or
   computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described
   process.
[00105]     Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate
   that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium
   storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a
   program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily
   all) of the described process.
[00106]     Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in
   the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed,
   and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any
   illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative
   arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other
   arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in
   drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated entries of the databases represent
   exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the
   number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further,
   despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including relational
   databases, object-based models and/or distributed databases) could be used to store and
   manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a
   database can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In
                                                 18

   addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely from a
   device which accesses data in such a database.
[00107]    Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
   including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with
   one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or
   indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet,
   Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications
   line, commercial on-line service providers, bulletin board systems, a satellite
   communications link, a combination of any of the above). Each of the devices may
   themselves comprise computers or other computing devices, such as those based on the
   Intel@, Pentium@, or CentrinoTM, AtomTM or CoreTM processor, that are adapted to
   communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in
   communication with the computer.
[00108]    In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
   necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be
   practiced on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment,
   any functions described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as
   stored on the server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such
   devices.
[00109]    Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate without
   any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human
   intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
[00110]    As used herein, the term "encryption" refers to a process for obscuring or hiding
   information so that the information is not readily understandable without special
   knowledge. The process of encryption may transform raw information, called plaintext,
   into encrypted information. The encrypted information may be called ciphertext, and the
   algorithm for transforming the plaintext into ciphertext may be referred to as a cipher. A
   cipher may also be used for performing the reverse operation of converting the ciphertext
                                               19

   back into plaintext. Examples of ciphers include substitution ciphers, transposition
   ciphers, and ciphers implemented using rotor machines.
[00111]    In various encryption methods, ciphers may require a supplementary piece of
   information called a key. A key may consist, for example, of a string of bits. A key may
   be used in conjunction with a cipher to encrypt plaintext. A key may also be used in
   conjunction with a cipher to decrypt ciphertext. In a category of ciphers called
   symmetric key algorithms (e.g., private-key cryptography), the same key is used for both
   encryption and decryption. The sanctity of the encrypted information may thus depend
   on the key being kept secret. Examples of symmetric key algorithms are DES and AES.
   In a category of ciphers called asymmetric key algorithms (e.g., public-key
   cryptography), different keys are used for encryption and decryption. With an
   asymmetric key algorithm, any member of the public may use a first key (e.g., a public
   key) to encrypt plaintext into ciphertext. However, only the holder of a second key (e.g.,
   the private key) will be able to decrypt the ciphertext back in to plaintext. An example of
   an asymmetric key algorithm is the RSA algorithm.
[00112]    VI.     Continuing Applications
[00113]    The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an enabling
   description of several embodiments and/or inventions. Some of these embodiments
   and/or inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but may nevertheless be
   claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the
   present application.
[00114]    Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject
   matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.
[00115]    VII.    35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6
[00116]    In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for" or the
   phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that limitation.
                                                20

[00117]    In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase "means
   for" or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6 does not apply to
   that limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation
   of structure, material or acts for performing that function. For example, in a claim, the
   mere use of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in referring to one or more steps
   of the claim or of another claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies
   to that step(s).
[00118]    With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure, material or
   acts described in the specification, and equivalents thereof, may perform additional
   functions as well as the specified function.
[00119]    Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures that
   can perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a
   specified function by executing one or more programs, such as a program stored in a
   memory device of that product or in a memory device which that product accesses.
   Unless expressly specified otherwise, such a program need not be based on any particular
   algorithm, such as any particular algorithm that might be disclosed in the present
   application. It is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art that a specified function
   may be implemented via different algorithms, and any of a number of different
   algorithms would be a mere design choice for carrying out the specified function.
[00120]    Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding to a specified
   function includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such
   structure includes programmed products which perform the function, regardless of
   whether such product is programmed with (i) a disclosed algorithm for performing the
   function, (ii) an algorithm that is similar to a disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different
   algorithm for performing the function.
[00121]    Where there is recited a means for performing a function that is a method, one
   structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose
                                                21

   computer) that is programmed and/or configured with appropriate hardware to perform
   that function.
[00122]     Also included is a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
   programmed and/or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via
   other algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
[00123]     VIII.   Disclaimer
[00124]     Numerous references to a particular embodiment do not indicate a disclaimer or
   disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly references to the
   description of embodiments which all include a particular feature do not indicate a
   disclaimer or disavowal of embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A
   clear disclaimer or disavowal in the present application will be prefaced by the phrase
   "does not include" or by the phrase "cannot perform".
[00125]     IX.     Incorporation By Reference
[00126]     Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is
   incorporated by reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure, but
   only for purposes of written description and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. §
    112, paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe
   any term of the present application, unless without such incorporation by reference, no
   ordinary meaning would have been ascertainable by a person of ordinary skill in the art.
   Such person of ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any way limited by any
   embodiments provided in the reference. Conversely, the definitions provided in this
   application should not be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe any term of any
   document incorporated herein by reference. The definitions set forth explicitly in this
   application are controlling notwithstanding the description of particular embodiments that
   may be incompatible with the definition(s).
[00127]     Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any endorsement
   of, ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions, arguments or
                                               22

   characterizations contained in any incorporated patent, patent application or other
   document, unless explicitly specified otherwise in this patent application.
[00128]     X.       Prosecution History
[00129]     In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of ordinary
   skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application, but not to
   the prosecution history of any other patent or patent application, regardless of whether
   there are other patent applications that are considered related to the present application,
   and regardless of whether there are other patent applications that share a claim of priority
   with the present application.
[00130]     XI.      Alternative Technologies
[00131]     It will be understood that the technologies described herein for making, using, or
   practicing various embodiments are but a subset of the possible technologies that may be
   used for the same or similar purposes. The particular technologies described herein are
   not to be construed as limiting. Rather, various embodiments contemplate alternate
   technologies for making, using, or practicing various embodiments.
[00132]     Modifications, additions, or omissions may be made to the method without
   departing from the scope of the invention. The method may include more, fewer, or other
   steps. Additionally, steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from
   the scope of the invention.
[00133]     While this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments and
   generally associated methods, alterations and permutations of the embodiments and
   methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the above description
   of example embodiments does not constrain this disclosure. Other changes, substitutions,
   and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this
   disclosure, as defined by the claims herein.
                                                 23

[00134]    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[00135]    In at least one embodiment, the invention provides a system and method of
   recreating an in-store jewelry shopping experience for a customer at a computer. The
   invention includes generating a live interactive communication session between the
   customer and a jewelry consultant. The invention also includes generating an interactive
   design tool to facilitate the design of a unique ring setting.
[00136]    In at least one embodiment, the invention provides a system and method of
   displaying advertisements based on the user's actions. For example, a user may enter a
   text-based search for a particular geographic area, or businesses or points of interest
   (POI) associated with a geographic area. After a map associated with the user's requested
   information is displayed, advertisements may subsequently be displayed based on the
   user's interaction with the map, such as changing the location, viewing POI or selecting
   particular search results.
[00137]    As shown in FIGS. 1-2, a system 100 in accordance with one aspect of the
   invention includes a computer 110 containing a plurality of processors 210, memory 220
   and other components typically present in general purpose computers.
[00138]    Memory 220 stores information accessible by at least one processor 210,
   including instructions 240 that may be executed by the processor 210 and data 230 that
   may be retrieved, manipulated or stored by the processor. The memory may be of any
   type capable of storing information accessible by the processor, such as a hard-drive,
   memory card, ROM, RAM, DVD, CD-ROM, write-capable, read-only memories and
   other computer media.
[00139]    The processor may be any number of well known processors, such as processors
   from Intel Corporation. Alternatively, the processor may be a dedicated controller such as
   an ASIC.
[00140]    The instructions 240 may be any set of instructions to be executed directly (such
   as machine code) or indirectly (such as scripts) by the processor. In that regard, the terms
   "instructions," "steps" and "programs" may be used interchangeably herein. The
                                                24

   instructions also function as an algorithm allowing the processor to perform the purposes
   intended by the instructions. The instructions may be stored in object code form for direct
   processing by the processor, or in any other computer language including scripts or
   collections of independent source code modules that are interpreted on demand or
   compiled in advance. Functions, methods and routines of the instructions are explained in
   more detail below.
[00141]     Data 230 may be retrieved, stored or modified by processor 210 in accordance
   with the instructions 240. For instance, although the invention is not limited by any
   particular data structure, the data may be stored in computer registers, in a relational
   database as a table having a plurality of different fields and records, XML documents, or
   flat files. The data may also be formatted in any computer readable format such as, but
   not limited to, binary values, ASCII or Unicode. Moreover, the data may comprise any
   information sufficient to identify the relevant information, such as descriptive text,
   proprietary codes, pointers, references to data stored in other memories (including other
   network locations) or information which is used by a function to calculate the relevant
   data.
[00142]     Although the processor and memory are functionally illustrated in FIG. 1 within
   the same block, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the
   processor and memory may actually comprise multiple processors and memories that
   may or may not be stored within the same physical housing. For example, some of the
   instructions and data may be stored on removable CD-ROM and others within a read
   only computer chip. Some or all of the instructions and data may be stored in a location
   physically remote from, yet still accessible by, the processor. Similarly, the processor
   may actually comprise a collection of processors which may or may not operate in
   parallel.
[00143]     In at least one embodiment, computer 110 is a server communicating with one or
   more client computers 150-151. Each client computer may be configured similarly to the
   server 110, with a processor, memory and instructions. Each client computer 150-151
   may be a personal computer, intended for use by a person 190-191, having all the internal
                                               25

   components normally found in a personal computer such as a central processing unit
   (CPU), display 160, CD-ROM, hard-drive, user input devices (for example, a mouse,
   keyboard, touch-screen or microphone), speakers, modem and/or network interface
   device (telephone, cable or otherwise) and all of the components used for connecting
   these elements to one another. Moreover, computers in accordance with the systems and
   methods described herein may comprise any device capable of processing instructions
   and transmitting data to and from humans and other computers, including general
   purpose computers, network computers lacking local storage capability, PDA's with
   modems and Internet-capable wireless phones.
[00144]     The server 110 and client computers 150-151 are capable of direct and indirect
   communication, such as over a network 295. Although only a few computers are depicted
   in FIGS. 1-2, it should be appreciated that a typical system can include a large number of
   connected computers, with each different computer being at a different node of the
   network 295. The network, and intervening nodes, may comprise various configurations
   and protocols including the Internet, intranets, virtual private networks, wide area
   networks, local networks, private networks using communication protocols proprietary to
   one or more companies, Ethernet, WiFi and HTTP. Such communication may be
   facilitated by any device capable of transmitting data to and from other computers, such
   as modems (e.g., dial-up or cable), networks and wireless interfaces. Server 110 may be a
   web server.
[00145]     Although certain advantages are obtained when information is transmitted or
   received as noted above, other aspects of the invention are not limited to any particular
   manner of transmission of information. For example, in some aspects, the information
   may be sent via a medium such as a disk, tape or CD-ROM. In other aspects, the
   information may be transmitted in a non-electronic format and manually entered into the
   system. Yet further, although some functions are indicated as taking place on a server and
   others on a client, various aspects of the invention may be implemented by a single
   computer having a single processor.
                                                26

[00146]     The data 230 includes inventory database 270. Inventory database 270 provides
   jewelry images 272 in response to requests for information associated with a particular
   jewelry item. The system and method is not limited to a specific manner of expressing the
   location. For example, the location may be expressed in terms of street address, city name
   or latitude/longitude.
[00147]     The system and method is not limited to a particular type or format. The jewelry
   images returned by the inventory database 270 may be a bitmap, vector file, or other
   image format. Inventory database 270 also may include jewelry data 274. Jewelry data
   may be any relevant information of interest to customers seeking to purchase a jewelry
   item. For example, where the jewelry item is a loose diamond, jewelry data 274 may
   include: diamond shape, carat weight, color grading, clarity grading, depth percentage,
   table percentage, polish options, symmetry options, fluorescence options and exact
   measurements, price/carat, total price, girdle and lot number of the diamond.
[00148]     Inventory database 270 also may include grading reports 276, which are stored as
   images.     The grading reports may come from any number of reputable diamond
   certification organizations, such as GIA (Gemological Institute of America), AGS
   (American Gem Society), EGL (European Gemological Laboratory) and HRD (Hoge
   Raad voor Diamant or the Diamond High Council).
[00149]     A user at computer 150 may request jewelry information by connecting to server
    110. For example, by logging into a website with a browser, a user may search specific
   information such as shape, cut, clarity or price of a loose diamond.
[00150]     FIG. 3a illustrates how a screen in accordance with an aspect of the system and
   method may look when a customer searches for a loose diamond. In one embodiment,
   the website is open to the public for browsing. In another embodiment, the system
   requires that new customers first register by entering personal information and selecting a
   unique identifier and a password. Once registered, the new customer is provided with
   access to the inventory of the online jewelry store.
                                               27

[00151]     In at least one embodiment, the system sorts the available inventory into multiple
   categories. These categories may be displayed on the initial page of the website. After a
   customer selects a category, the website filters the inventory in accordance to the selected
   category. The customer may further edit the results by selecting one or more
   subcategories. For example, if the customer selects a category of "diamonds," then the
   website will present a selection of available diamonds. The customer may further edit the
   selection of diamonds by selecting a subcategory of "round" shaped stones, so that the
   website filters the inventory of diamonds to present only round stones.
[00152]     The category may include a type of finished jewelry piece, such as rings,
   bracelets, pendants, necklaces, earrings, cuff links, money clips, key chains, and watches.
   The category also may include a type of precious gemstone, such as amethysts,
   diamonds, emeralds, opals, onyxes, pearls, rubies, and sapphires. Additionally, the
   category may include a type of precious metal, such as gold, platinum, silver and
   titanium. The category also may include a special event or a gift recipient. Some
   examples of special event categories may include an anniversary, a baptism, a birthday,
   an engagement, a first communion, a graduation, a push present for the birth of a child
   and a wedding. Examples of gift recipient categories may include a fianc6/fianc6e, a
   husband/wife, a mother/father, a daughter/son, a grandmother/grandfather, a
   boss/secretary and a woman/man.
[00153]     FIGS. 3a and 3b illustrate an exemplary example in which the customer is
   shopping for a loose diamond. Although the customer in the exemplary example is
   shopping for a loose diamond that will be set in a ring setting, the invention is not limited
   to selling loose diamonds alone. As described below, the invention is applicable to any
   item that might be sold by an online jewelry store.
[00154]     In the exemplary example, the customer selects a category of "diamonds." He is
   then directed to Inventory Search Page 300, which provides a number of search
   parameters for further refining the search.
[00155]     The search parameters may include search parameter 302 that comprises the
   available diamond shapes. Some examples of diamond shapes may include round, pear,
                                               28

   marquise, oval, heart, emerald, radiant, princess, cushion, Asscher and baguette shapes.
   The customer selects one or more diamond shapes to be included in his inventory search.
[00156]    Inventory Search Page 300 also may include search parameters 304, 306 and 308,
   which are directed to a desired range for, respectively, the carat size, the color and the
   clarity of the diamond.
[00157]    Any tool may be used for indicating the desired range. In at least one
   embodiment, the customer enters alpha-numeric text into one or more search boxes. The
   search boxes may be directed to a minimum amount and a maximum amount. In at least
   one embodiment, each of the text boxes is a drop down box comprising a number of
   options relevant to the text box. For example, a drop down box for diamond color may
   provide the options of a D color to a Z color.
[00158]    In at least one embodiment, the customer uses a sliding scale tool bar to indicate
   his desired range. The sliding scale tool comprises two cursors located on either end of
   the sliding scale. The two cursors represent the minimum and maximum indicators of the
   sliding scale. By clicking on a cursor, the customer can move the cursor to mirror his
   desired minimum and maximum quantity. For example, if customer wishes to purchase
   a diamond that has a carat size between 1.6 carats and 2.0 carats, then the customer
   would move the two cursors to bookend 1.6 carats and 2 carats. Alternatively, the
   customer may enter the decimal numbers 1.6 and 2.0 into, respectively, minimum box
   310 and maximum box 312 of search parameter 304.
[00159]    Search parameter 306 is directed to at indicating the desired color range for a
   diamond. Typically, the color of a diamond is assesed through a grading scale that
   ranges from a notation of "D" (which refers to a completely colorless diamond) to a
   notation of "Z" (which refers to a diamond that is pale yellow or brown color). As
   described above, the customer may indicate his desired range via a variety of tools. For
   example, the customer may utilize a drop down box to indicate a minimum color of D in
   minimum box 314 and a maximum color of F in maximum box 316. In another example,
   the customer types a letter that corresponds to his desired minimum and maximum colors
   directly into boxes 314 and 316.
                                               29

[00160]    Additionally, the customer may indicate, using drop down box 318, whether he is
   interested in a "fancy colored" diamond, e.g. a diamond that possess a desirable natural
   color. In at least one embodiment, drop down box 318 offers the fancy color choices in
   order to increasing intensity, such as Faint, Very Light, Light, Fancy Light, Fancy, Fancy
   Intense, Fancy Vivid, Fancy Dark, and Fancy Deep.
[00161]    Search parameter 308 allows the customer to indicate the desired clarity range. A
   diamond's clarity refers to the presence of identifying characteristics or flaws on the
   stone. The flaws may be internal to the stone (or called inclusions). Some examples of
   inclusions may include air bubbles, cracks, and non-diamond minerals found in the
   diamond. External or surface flaws to a diamond are called blemishes. Some examples
   of blemishes may include scratches, pits, and chips on the diamond. Diamonds with none
   or few inclusions and blemishes have greater clarity, and thus are more highly valued.
[00162]    The most desirable clarity grading is an F (Flawless) or IF (Internally flawless)
   diamond. A diamond with an F rating has no internal or external flaws, and thus it is
   extremely rare. Equally rare is an IF diamond, which has some surface flaws, but no
   internal flaws. Next are "Very, Very Slightly Included" diamonds (VVS1 and VVS2)
   which contain minute inclusions that are very difficult to detect under lOx magnification
   by a trained gemologist. The next level of clarity grading is the "Very Slightly Included"
   diamonds (VS1 and VS2). These diamonds have minute inclusions that can be detected
   with difficulty under a lOx magnification. The next level of clarity grading are "Slightly
   Included" diamonds (SI1 and S12), which contain minute inclusions that are easily
   detected under a lOx magnification. The last level of grading is the "Included" (I1)
   diamonds that have noticeable flaws.
[00163]    The customer may indicate a desired search range for the diamond's clarity using
   any number of tools. In the exemplary example of FIG. 3, the customer enters the criteria
   in minimum box 320 and maximum box 322, which are drop down boxes with options
   that correspond to the various clarity levels.
[00164]    Inventory Search Page 300 also includes search parameter 324 which allows the
   customer to select the type of grading report of the diamond. Diamond grading reports
                                               30

   may come from any number of reputable diamond certification organizations, such as
   GIA (Gemological Institute of America), AGS (American Gem Society), EGL (European
   Gemological Laboratory) and HRD (Hoge Raad voor Diamant or the Diamond High
   Council). Some organizations are valued more highly than others, thus search parameter
   334 provides the customer with an opportunity to limit his search to only diamonds
   possessing certain grading reports.
[00165]     Although not shown in FIGS. 3a and 3b, in at least one embodiment, Inventory
   Search Page 300 also offers a search parameter directed to the desired price range for the
   diamond purchase.
[00166]     Sort parameter 226 allows the customer to sort the search results in accordance to
   the price of the diamond or any one of search parameters 302, 304, 306, 308 and 324.
[00167]     In at least one embodiment, customer wishes to view a specific diamond. In such
   instances, he can enter directly a unique identifier (i.e., the lot number) for that particular
   diamond in lot number box 328.
[00168]     FIG. 3b illustrates additional search options that customer may access on
   Inventory Search Page 300. Advanced Search Options 330 is hidden on the initial
   Inventory Search Page 300, but once the customer clicks on Advanced Search Options
   330, he is able to view a plurality of additional search parameters.
[00169]     As shown in FIG. 3b, Advanced Search Options 330 may offer additional search
   parameters 332, 334, 336, 338, 340, 342 and 344, which correspond, respectively, to cut
   options, depth percentage, table percentage, polish options, symmetry options,
   fluorescence options and exact measurements. However, Advanced Search Options 330
   is not limited to only search parameters 332-344, but rather, it may include any relevant
   search criteria.
[00170]     Once the customer has finished specifying the desired criteria for his inventor
   search, he selects search button 346 to submit the selected search criteria. The system
   processes the submitted search criteria and returns the results in table 400.
                                                31

[00171]     FIG. 4a illustrates a set of search results displayed in a tabular format 400. Table
   400 displays the search results in a plurality of rows 402-410. Each of rows 402-410
   represents a particular diamond that matches to the customer's search criteria.
[00172]     In at least one embodiment, each of rows 402-410 comprises information that is
   relevant to its corresponding jewelry item. Examples of relevant information may
   include, but not limited to, a photograph, a price, and a brief description of the jewelry
   item. Where the jewelry item is a loose diamond, the brief description may include the
   cut, clarity, color and carat of the stone.
[00173]     Each of rows 402-410 also includes certificate links 426-434, which provide the
   customer with an image view of the actual grading report of the diamond. For example,
   FIG. 5 illustrates a detailed view of grading report 500 associated with diamond of row
   402. The customer accessed grading report 500 by clicking on corresponding certificate
   link 426.
[00174]      Certificate 500 contains both quantitative information (e.g., measurements of the
   weight and other physical dimensions of the diamond) and qualitative information (e.g.,
   grades in three major areas of cut, clarity and color). Certificate 500 also may provide
   pictorial diagrams 502 and 504, which illustrate the inclusion locations of the diamond.
[00175]     Referring back to FIG. 4a, customers may select one or more jewelry items by
   clicking on check boxes 414-422. Check boxes 414-422 correspond to each of rows 402
   410. Once the one or more jewelry items are selected, the customer has several options
   regarding the selected items. In at least one embodiment, the customer has the option of
   comparing at least two selected jewelry items. In another embodiment, the customer can
   purchase the selected jewelry items. Still in another embodiment, the customer can
   request an interactive communication session with a live jewelry consultant in order to
   learn more about the selected jewelry items.
[00176]     To compare selected jewelry items, the customer selects at least two check boxes
   414-422. In the exemplary example shown in FIG. 4a, the customer selects check boxes
   402, 406 and 410, and then he selects compare button 412. The system filters the search
                                                 32

   results from table 400 and displays only the diamonds associated with check boxes 402,
   406 and 410. The comparison results are displayed in table format, which
   advantageously allows the customer to differentiate between the selected diamonds in a
   single view. The customer is able to quickly determine the similarities and differences
   between each characteristic of the compared diamonds, such as the shape, clarity or price
   of the diamond.
[00177]     To purchase the selected jewelry item, the customer again selects one or more
   jewelry items by checking corresponding boxes 414-422. The customer then selects
   purchase button 424, which places the selected jewelry items in an online shopping cart.
   The customer then has the option to continue shopping for additional jewelry items, or he
   may choose to check-out immediately.
[00178]     If the customer selects to check-out immediately, the system transfers the
   customer to a separate purchasing page. The purchasing page may request payment
   information, such as a credit card number and billing address of the customer. The
   purchasing page also may inquire as to the desired delivery option, the address of the
   recipient, and an indication of whether the jewelry items are intended as gifts.
[00179]     Where the jewelry items are intended as gifts, the purchasing page provides the
   option to gift wrap the purchased jewelry items before shipping to the gift recipient.
[00180]     In at least one embodiment, the purchasing page also provides the option of
   insuring the purchased jewelry items through a company that specializes in jewelry
   insurance. One advantage of providing insurance coverage through specialized jewelry
   insurance is that the coverage may be greater than a standard homeowners' policy. For
   example, the homeowner's policy only may replace a lost or stolen ring, rather than
   paying a set cash amount. Furthermore, many individuals purchasing jewelry items
   online may not have the time or opportunity to obtain insurance coverage immediately.
   By providing the option to purchasing insurance, the purchasing page provides an
   additional convenience to the customer.
[00181]     I.       Interactive Communication Session with Jewelry Consultant
                                               33

[00182]    Referring back to FIG. 4a, the customer also may desire to learn more about one
   or more jewelry items. For instance, the customer may wish to view a particular diamond
   under a microscope in order to see a particular inclusion of the diamond. Furthermore,
   the customer also may wish to inquire a live expert regarding one or more jewelry items.
   Thus, the customer may wish to request an interactive communication session with a
   jewelry consultant, e.g., by clicking on or otherwise selecting an indicia such as button
   438. In at least one embodiment, the customer requests the interactive communication
   session by clicking on a link.
[00183]    In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant is a certified gemologist. In at
   least another embodiment, the jewelry consultant is a sales associate with knowledge of
   (and/or access to information about) one or more items in the inventory, but does not hold
   any certification.
[00184]    The customer may select one or more jewelry items by selecting (e.g., by
   checking) corresponding boxes 414-422. To request an interactive communication
   session, the customer may then select Interactive Communication Session button 438. In
   response, the system generates a request that is submitted to the online jewelry store.
[00185]    A customer may request an interactive communication session at any point during
   the purchasing process. In at least one embodiment, the customer requests an interactive
   communication session at the beginning of the purchasing process. For example, the
   customer may be an inexperienced shopper with many questions regarding the diamond
   purchasing process. He may seek the counsel of a jewelry consultant to guide him
   through the selections.
[00186]    In another embodiment, the customer requests the interactive communication
   session in the middle of the purchasing process. For example, the customer may wish to
   view an inclusion of the diamond under the microscope, e.g., to determine the degree or
   extent to which the inclusion is visible to the eye, e.g., under varying degrees of
   magnification. He also may wish to see a quality-related test being performed on a
   particular jewelry item, or to see or inspect the results of one or more such tests. In
   another example, the customer also may request that the jewelry consultant provide a
                                               34

   relative comparison of a selected diamond against a benchmark item, such as a coin or
   another diamond (e.g., to provide a relative size, color, shape, or cut comparison).
[00187]    In yet another embodiment, the customer requests the interactive communication
   session towards the end of the purchasing process. In this example, the customer may
   have narrowed down his purchasing options to two similar diamonds and may wish to
   obtain a side-by-side comparison of the two stones.
[00188]    FIG. 6 illustrates a block diagram of an interactive communication session
   between the customer and a jewelry consultant. Once the customer has selected button
   438 to request an interactive communication session, client terminal 600 automatically
   sends the request over communication channel 602 to request handling system 604. The
   request includes a unique identifier for each jewelry item of interest. In at least one
   embodiment, the unique identifier is the lot number of a diamond.
[00189]    In at least one embodiment, client terminal 600 is a desktop computer that
   comprises video camera 606 that is capable of transmitting video images. Client terminal
   600 also may include videoconferencing software 608 which facilitates the interactive
   communication session between the customer and the jewelry consultant. The client
   terminal may also comprise monitor 610 that is capable of displaying received video
   images and outputting audio sound from the interactive communication session. In at
   least one embodiment, monitor 610 also displays the website simultaneously with the
   video images from the interactive communication session.
[00190]    In at least one embodiment, the interactive communications session is one-way, in
   that only the customer can see the jewelry consultant. In such instances, the customer
   may have the option to turn off video camera 606. In another embodiment, client
   terminal 600 does not have a video camera.
[00191]    In at least one embodiment, the customer wishes to schedule the interactive
   communication session a later time; as such, the customer may include a desired date and
   time in his request for interactive communication session.
                                               35

[00192]     In one embodiment, request handling system 604 randomly assigns the customer
   to a first available jewelry consultant. In another embodiment, the customer specifies a
   particular jewelry consultant for the interactive communication session. The customer
   may include the name of the consultant in the request that is submitted to request
   handling system 604. For example, the customer may have developed a positive working
   experience with a particular jewelry consultant. Thus, the customer may wish to continue
   working with this same jewelry consultant. In another example, the customer may wish
   to specify a particular jewelry consultant based on a personal reference or
   recommendation.
[00193]     In at least one embodiment, the customer selects a jewelry consultant based on the
   jewelry consultant's public profile, which is displayed on the website. The public profile
   may include a photograph of the individual and a biography of the individual's
   background. The biography may include all relevant work experiences, the type of
   diamond certifications held by the individual, and any professional associations and
   affiliations of the jewelry consultant.
[00194]     In at least one embodiment, the customer provides a "blacklist" of jewelry
   consultants to request handling system 604. The blacklist includes the names of jewelry
   consultants with whom the customer does not wish to schedule an interactive
   communication session. For example, the customer may have experienced an unpleasant
   encounter with a particular jewelry consultant, and as such, he may desire to avoid
   working that individual in all future transactions.
[00195]     In at least one embodiment, the customer does not specify the name of the jewelry
   consultant, but instead, he provides one or more desired criteria for the jewelry
   consultant. For example, the customer might indicate that he wishes to meet with a
   female jewelry consultant. In matching the customer with a jewelry consultant, request
   handling system 604 would take into account the customer's desired criteria and match
   the customer with the first available jewelry consultant having the desired criteria traits.
[00196]     In some embodiments, the customer may review a plurality of profiles (e.g., of
   available consultants) and select a consultant based on the profiles. The customer may
                                               36

   also search for a plurality of profiles based on one or more criteria, such as years of
   experience, education level of the consultant (e.g., bachelor's degree or other degree),
   location of the consultant (e.g., the New York diamond district, or a location within a
   certain number of miles of the customer), native language of the consultant, special
   technology available to the consultant (e.g., a specific type of microscope or set of tests
   that can be performed or interpreted by the consultant), customer review scores of the
   consultant, and other criteria. In at least one embodiment, the customer indicates a level
   of experience of the jewelry. For example, the customer may wish to meet with a
   certified gemologist, rather than a sales associate. The customer also might indicate the
   type of certification held by the jewelry consultant, such as only AGS certified
   individuals. The customer also may wish to meet with jewelry consultants that have at
   least 10 years of experience.
[00197]     In at least one embodiment, the website provides the sales figures for each jewelry
   consultant. The website also may include additional details, such as the quantity of
   transactions conducted by a jewelry consultant for a specific type of gemstone or a
   specific type of finished jewelry piece. For example, the website may indicate that
   Jewelry Consultant A is an expert in diamond engagement rings, whereas Jewelry
   Consultant B specializes in watches. Using the provided information, the customer may
   choose to work with a jewelry consultant that has the highest number of transactions in a
   particular type of finished jewelry pieces, such as diamond engagement rings. The
   customer may decide to work with this individual because he believes the jewelry
   consultant has the most relevant experience pertaining to his purchase.
[00198]     In at least one embodiment, the website allows previous customers to write a
   review for each jewelry consultant. The website also may allow previous customers to
   rank each jewelry consultant, such as awarding one to five stars to the individual. The
   ranks also may encompass various categories directed to customer service, knowledge of
   the inventory, responsiveness to follow-up questions and timeliness for the interactive
   communication session. The reviews and rankings may be published on the website next
   to each jewelry consultants' profiles. In one example, the customer selects a jewelry
   consultant based on the ranking and reviews posted.
                                                37

[00199]     In at least one embodiment, the website sets up parameters to ensure the integrity
   of the rank and review process. A customer may be provided with a unique identification
   code for a particular jewelry consultant at the end of an interactive communication
   session with that individual. Only customers with the unique identification code may
   review and rank that particular jewelry consultant. Such a system helps ensure the
   integrity of the rank and review process.
[00200]     As shown in FIG. 6, request handling system 604 identifies a jewelry consultant
   for the customer. Request handling system 604 then sends the request to the jewelry
   consultant's workstation 612. In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant may
   accept the request by clicking on a button or a link to indicate that he is available for the
   requested date and time of the interactive communication session. Jewelry consultant
   workstation 612 then transmits an indication of the jewelry consultant's acceptance back
   to request handling system 604. In response, request handling system 604 generates an
   interactive communication session between client terminal 600 and workstation 612 at
   the requested date and time.
[00201]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant is not available for the
   interactive communication session at the requested date and time. For example, the
   jewelry consultant may be helping another customer. In another example, the selected
   jewelry items are unavailable at the requested date and time. The selected jewelry items
   may need to be retrieved from an off-site location. In such instances, the jewelry
   consultant may click on a button or a link to indicate that he is unavailable for the
   requested interactive communication session. Workstation 612 then transmits an
   indication of the jewelry consultant's unavailability back to request handling system 604.
   The customer then has the option of either meeting with a different jewelry consultant or
   suggesting an alternative date and time for the interactive communication session.
[00202]     Jewelry consultant's workstation 612 may comprise a computing device that is
   connected to monitor 614, which displays received video images and audio files from
   client terminal 600. Workstation 612 also comprises videoconferencing software 616,
   which facilitates the interactive communication session between the jewelry consultant
                                               38

   and the customer. Workstation 612 also comprises video camera 618 which is capable of
   capturing and transmitting video images that are transmitted over communication channel
   602 to client terminal 600.
[00203]     Furthermore, workstation 612 comprises microscope 620, which is connected to a
   separate video camera 622. After jewelry consultant places the selected jewelry items
   underneath microscope 620, microscope video camera 622 captures and transmits video
   images of the selected jewelry items. The video images are transmitted over
   communication channel 602 and displayed on monitor 610 at client terminal 600.
[00204]     FIGS. 7a and 7b illustrates how the screen on the customer's monitor 610 may
   look during an interactive communication session with the jewelry consultant. In FIG.
   7a, website 700 of the on-line jewelry store shifts to the background of the screen and
   video box 702 appears in the forefront of the screen. Through video box 702, the
   customer is able to view the selected diamonds, speak directly with the jewelry consultant
   and witness first-hand any tests or comparisons conducted by the jewelry consultant at
   his workstation 612.
[00205]     In FIG. 7b, video box 704 displays the captured images from microscope video
   camera 622. When video box 704 appears in the forefront of the screen, video box 702
   of the jewelry consultant is minimized to a corner of the screen. Website 700 remains in
   the background. In at least one embodiment, the customer may toggle between each of
   the applications (e.g. website 700, video box 702, video box 704). The toggling may
   occurred via a "Tab" button, or the toggling may occur through the clicking of a mouse,
   or other means.
[00206]     In at least one embodiment, the customer verbally instructs the jewelry consultant
   to adjust the settings on microscope 620. For example, the customer may wish to have
   microscope 620 magnify the jewelry or a particular part of the jewelry, such as an
   inclusion on a diamond. The jewelry consultant would adjust the position of the diamond
   under microscope 620 and zoom in on the inclusion. Microscope video camera 622
   captures the images and transmits the images over communication channel 602 to client
   terminal 600. The attachment of microscope video camera 622 to microscope 620
                                              39

   advantageously provides the customer with access the same information that he would
   have received at an actual store. The customer may request greater or lesser
   magnification (e.g., a specific amount of magnification such as 5x or 20x), and may
   request to focus on different parts of the jewelry (such as the top, middle, bottom, a
   particular facet, etc.).
[00207]    In another embodiment, the customer has the ability to remotely control
   microscope 620 from client terminal 600. The customer may have controls to remotely
   set any parameter of the microscope. For example, using virtual buttons located at client
   terminal 600, the customer may communicate instructions directly to microscope 620.
   For example, the customer may wish to obtain a magnified view of a jewelry item. He
   then communicates directly with microscope 620 in order to instruct microscope 620 to
   zoom into the jewelry item. In at least one embodiment, the virtual buttons comprise
   directional arrows, which allow the customer to adjust the location of the viewfinder on
   microscope 620. In another embodiment, the virtual buttons comprise a zoom-in button
   and zoom-out button, which facilitate the magnification underneath microscope 620. In
   yet another embodiment, the virtual buttons comprise a text box where the customer may
   type in the desired angle of the viewfinder. The customer may also adjust the focal point
   of the microscope to view different depths of a jewelry item (e.g., to focus on the top
   surface of a gem, the middle of a gem, or the bottom of a gem, for example).
[00208]    In at least one embodiment, the customer examines the diamond under
   microscope 620 in order to confirm that the certificate number engraved on the diamond
   matches the certified grading report that is on file for the diamond. This process gives
   confidence to the customer that he is being shown the actual diamond that he requested.
[00209]    In at least one embodiment, workstation 612 comprises lighting device 624.
   Lighting device 624 may comprises a plurality of different light sources, such as an
   ultraviolet light source, a fluorescent light source, an incandescent light source, neon light
   source, a blacklight source, and a LED light source. Each light source produces a
   different quality of light, which when shone on the selected jewelry item (especially a
   gemstone) will produce a different effect.
                                                40

[00210]    The customer may request different lighting conditions for viewing the jewelry,
   such as lighting conditions that simulate daylight, candlelight, typical office work
   conditions, and other lighting conditions. In at least one embodiment, the customer may
   ask to view the diamond under a ultra-violet (UV) light-source. When diamonds are
   viewed under a ultra-violet (UV) light-source, they tend to fluoresce as blue or violet
   blue. Because natural fluorescence can help an off-colored diamond appears as a higher
   grade, a customer may wish to view a selected diamond under a UV light source in order
   to identify the fluorescence.
[00211]    Lighting device 624 also may generate different lighting effects in order to
   replicate the lighting at a particular time of day. For example, by altering the intensity
   and color of the emitted light, lighting device 624 attempts to replicate the lighting
   conditions of morning, afternoon, and evening light. In another embodiment, lighting
   device 624 replicates the lighting effects of a particular location, such as natural sunlight
   or indoor light. Such lighting effects allow the customer to gain a better understand of
   how a particular jewelry item might appear outside the near ideal lighting conditions of a
   jewelry store.
[00212]    In at least one embodiment, the customer verbally instructs the jewelry consultant
   to adjust lighting device 624. In another embodiment, the customer is able to remotely
   control lighting device 624 via client terminal 600.
[00213]    In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant has a stationary viewing booth
   device, which helps the jewelry consultant to demonstrate color differences for the
   customer. The stationary viewing booth may use phosphor day lamps in order to
   replicate fluorescent daylight. One example of a stationary viewing booth is the
   GretagMacbeth Judge II Viewing Booth.
[00214]    II.      Side-by-Side Comparison
[00215]    During the interactive communication session, the customer may request a side
   by-side comparison of various jewelry items. A customer may wish to compare two
   diamonds that have the same characteristics (as listed under table 400) but with different
                                                41

   price tags. During the interactive communication session, the customer learns that
   despite having the same carat weight, color and clarity, the two diamonds do not share
   equivalent values due to a number of other factors, which are not easily discernable by
   numbers. These factors may include the placement of the inclusion, the color the
   inclusion, the cut of the diamond all come into play when determining the value of a
   diamond. While this information is difficult to ascertain from table 400 alone, the
   information is easily demonstrated during the live interactive communication session.
   For instance, the customer may see first hand the placement of the inclusion under
   microscope 620.
[00216]    A customer also may wish to compare two diamonds of different characteristics,
   such as different carat size, color or clarity. For example, a customer may have difficulty
   grasping the difference between a F color and a G color. Thus, the jewelry consultant can
   demonstrate the differences between the characteristics during the live interactive
   communication session.
[00217]    Additionally, a customer may wish to discern whether a diamond with the less
   desirable characteristic (e.g., smaller carat size, lower clarity) is noticeably different from
   the diamond with the more desirable characteristic. For example, the customer may
   witness firsthand that a 1.8 carat diamond is not noticeably different from a 2 carat
   diamond due to the way the smaller diamond was cut.
[00218]    III.     Relative Size Comparison
[00219]    In at least one embodiment, the customer may request a relative-size comparison
   of the selected jewelry items during the interactive communication session. The
   customer may wish to compare the jewelry item against a benchmark item in order to
   determine the actual size of the jewelry item. For example, the jewelry consultant may
   place a 2 carat diamond next to a dime, in order to help the customer understand the
   relative size of the diamond. The jewelry consultant places both the jewelry item and the
   benchmark item in front of video camera 620, and the video images of both items are
   transmitted over communications channel 602 to be displayed on monitor 610.
                                                 42

[00220]     Any number of objects may be used as a benchmark item. The benchmark item
   may be a common everyday item, such as a coin, a thimble, a cell phone or a paperclip.
   The benchmark item also may be a ruler or grid with numeric markings.
[00221]     In at least one embodiment, the customer instructs the jewelry consultant to use a
   specific type of benchmark instrument. For example, a foreign customer may request the
   use of a coin from his country of origin.
[00222]     In another embodiment, the benchmark item is an "average sized" diamond. A
   customer may be concerned about not purchasing a stone that is considered "too small"
   by his fiance and her peers. Thus, the customer may ask the jewelry consultant to show
   him the "average-sized diamond", i.e., the most commonly purchased diamond size. The
   customer may wish to compare his selected diamonds against the average-sized diamond,
   in order to determine whether his selections are too small.
[00223]     In at least one embodiment, relative-size is demonstrated through the use of a
   hand model. The hand model may be made from plastic, wax or some other synthetic
   material. The hand model also may be constructed in a similar fashion to that of a
   mannequin hand.
[00224]     The hand model may come in a variety of sizes, colors and shapes. Size
   increments may include petite, small, medium, large and extra-large. The hand model
   may be crafted to mirror the dimensions of the average female hand or the average male
   hand. The hand model also may be crafted to mirror the dimensions of a child-sized hand
   and an adult-sized hand. The hand model also may come with different finger lengths
   and sizes, in an attempt to more accurately mirror the customer or the gift recipient's
   hand. The hand model also may be constructed in a variety of skin tones.
[00225]     During the interactive communication session, the jewelry consultant may select a
   hand model that most closely matches the customer or the gift recipient. The jewelry
   consultant may place the selected jewelry item, such a diamond engagement ring, on the
   hand model in order to help the customer visualize how the jewelry item would look on
   the gift recipient. For example, the customer may determine, after inspecting a selected
                                               43

   diamond ring on a hand model, that the selected diamond appears too small on the hand
   model. In another example, the customer may wish to use the hand model to determine
   the most attractive shape of a diamond. The customer may determine that an oval
   diamond best accentuates a hand with long, slender fingers. Still in another example, the
   hand model may be used to determine which metal band best accommodates a particular
   skin tone. The customer may determine that a yellow-gold band is unflattering against a
   yellow-based skin tone, and as a result, he may decide to purchase a platinum band
   instead.
[00226]     In at least one embodiment, the hand model is provided by a live person. The
[00227]     IV.      Various Tests Conducted
[00228]     Referring back to FIG. 6, the jewelry consultant also performs a variety of tests on
   the jewelry item during the interactive communication session. The tests may be quality
   related tests. The quality-related tests may be used to demonstrate or highlight specific
   characteristics of a jewelry item. The quality-related tests also may provide additional
   information that is not available in a standard grading report. The jewelry consultant also
   may conduct authenticity-related tests that seek to verify the authenticity of a jewelry
   item, such as a diamond.
[00229]     In at least one embodiment, the tests are conducted during the interactive
   communication session in real-time. In such instances, the necessary tools and devices
   for conducting the tests are available at the jewelry consultant's workstation 612. The
   customer witnesses the test being performed by the jewelry consultant in real-time. In
   some embodiments, the customer may simply request or view the results of one or more
   tests which may have been conducted in advance of the communication session. For
   example, such test results may be stored and accessible via the profile of the jewelry
   item.
[00230]     The tests also may generate a variety of test results. Such test results may include
   reports, images and measurement results. In at least one embodiment, the test results are
   displayed simultaneously on the jewelry consultant's monitor 614 and the customer's
                                               44

   monitor 610. In another embodiment, the jewelry consultant electronically sends the test
   results to the customer's client terminal 600.
[00231]     FIGS. 7c and 7d illustrate how the screen on the customer's monitor 610 may
   look after receiving the test results. In FIG. 7c, video box 706 displays the view of a
   diamond during a Hearts & Arrows test. Video box 704 of the microscope and video box
   702 of the jewelry consultant also are displayed on the screen, although in a minimized
   capacity. Website 700 remains in the background. In at least one embodiment, the
   customer may toggle between each of the applications (e.g. website 700, video box 702,
   video box 704, video box 706). The toggling may occurred via a "Tab" button, or the
   toggling may occur through the clicking of a mouse or other means.
[00232]     FIG. 7d illustrates a different view of the screen on customer's monitor 610.
   Here, the screen is partitioned in various sections. Each of the sections is devoted to a
   particular application, such as website 700, video box 702, video box 704, video box 706.
   In at least one embodiment, the addition of an application results in a new video box
   being added to the screen.
[00233]     In at least one embodiment, the tests are performed by technicians in advance of
   the interactive communication session. If the customer requests information from any of
   theses tests, the jewelry consultant retrieves the test results from a database and
   electronically sends the test results to the customer.
[00234]     In another embodiment, the tests are being performed by off-site technicians in
   tandem with the interactive communication session. If a customer requests information
   from any of these tests, the jewelry consultant will submit a request for the test results.
   Once the tests are completed, the technical will electronically send the test results to both
   the jewelry consultant workstation 612 and the customer's client terminal 600.
[00235]     A.       Quality-Related Tests
[00236]     As described above, quality-related tests may be performed during the interactive
   communication session. In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant may wish to
   demonstrate the quality of a diamond's cut.
                                                45

[00237]     For example, the jewelry consultant places the diamond under an Ideal-scope.
   The Ideal-scope uses a lens with a hot red/pink reflector that is positioned in front of the
   diamond under a central viewing hole. The viewer is able to see how much of the
   red/pink light refracts back from the diamond. The resulting pattern will provide an
   indication of the facet proportion and symmetry. Thus, the Ideal-scope is used to gauge
   the brilliance of a diamond. The white areas in a diamond show light transmitted from
   behind the diamond (or leakage). The blackness of the lens mimics an observer's head
   blocking out the light. Generally, the most brilliant diamonds look bright pink/red with a
   black star and minimal white or pale areas. For example, a diamond with perfect
   symmetry and good proportions will show a black eight-pointed star.
[00238]     In another example, the jewelry consultant tests the cut quality of the diamond
   through an ASET (Angular Spectrum Evaluation Tool) test. The ASET may either be a
   desktop or a handheld device. Similar to the Ideal-scope, the ASET test is used to
   demonstrate the light performance of a diamond. However, unlike the Ideal-scope, the
   ASET uses a tri-color filter that gives light being reflected at different angles a different
   color. As a result, the ASET device provides a color-coded map of light usage by a
   diamond.
[00239]     For example, in the generated ASET image, blue areas are the dark contrast areas
   observed in a diamond due of obscuration (e.g., a head in the way). In ASET the
   configuration is intended to represent light coming from 75 degrees to 90 degrees. In the
   AGS metric, a well-made round brilliant diamond should have about 18% blue content.
   Red represents the most desirable color in the image. The red color is intended to be light
   coming from 45 degrees to 75 degrees-it is not obscured so it is producing the
   brightness via the most direct light. Green light comes from the horizon to 45 degrees,
   and is usually reflected light and of lower quality. Black (or white if using white
   backlighting) areas in the diamond represent areas of non-reflection or leakage.
[00240]     As shown in FIG. 7c, in at least one embodiment, the image generated by testing
   with an ASET device automatically appears on the customer's monitor screen 610. The
   jewelry consultant may then send an electronic copy of the ASET image over
                                               46

   communication channel 602 to the customer's client terminal 600. In another
   embodiment, both the jewelry consultant and customer receive at their respective
   terminals, 612 and 610, the ASET image from a third party. In yet another example, only
   the jewelry consultant has receive the ASET test results, and the jewelry consultant
   electronically sends the results to the customer's terminal 612 over communications
   channel 602.
[00241]    In at least one embodiment, the quality-related test is a "Hearts and Arrows" test.
   The term "Hearts & Arrows" is a description used by the diamond industry to refer to
   diamonds that exhibit a crisp and complete pattern of hearts and arrows under certain
   lighting conditions. The Hearts & Arrows test can be used to demonstrate a high quality
   of a cut and the polish of a diamond. Often, in order to create an optimum Hearts &
   Arrows effect in a diamond, a diamond cutter must be willing to sacrifice expensive
   rough diamond material (i.e., lose significant percentage of costly rough stone) to yield a
   smaller diamond of superior quality. Due to the complexity of the cut that is required to
   generate a Hearts & Arrows diamond, these diamonds cost more to produce than standard
   round cut diamonds.
[00242]    In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant places the selected diamond
   underneath a Hearts & Arrows viewer. If all the facets of the diamond are precisely
   aligned under the viewer, then the Hearts & Arrows effect is clearly displayed. When the
   diamond is viewed the top (or the table of the diamond), an effect of arrows should be
   seen. When the diamond is viewed from the bottom (or pavilion of the diamond), an
   effect of hearts should be seen. A high quality Hearts & Arrows diamond exhibits a
   pattern that is vivid, symmetrical and clearly formed. On the other hand, diamonds with
   less than ideal cuts will display only a partial pattern underneath the viewer, or an
   otherwise less well-defined "hearts and arrows" pattern. Less than ideal diamonds also
   may exhibit a pattern that is not crisp and sharp. These diamonds also may depict hearts
   and arrows of differing, asymmetrical sizes.
[00243]    In at least one embodiment, a video camera is attached to the Hearts & Arrows
   viewer. Images generated from the Hearts & Arrows viewer are transmitted over
                                               47

   communication channel 602 and displayed on monitor 610 at client terminal 600. Thus,
   the customer is able to remotely view and evaluate for himself the quality of the Hearts &
   Arrows pattern of a particular diamond.
[00244]     In another embodiment, in response to a request submitted by the customer before
   or during a communication session, the jewelry consultant places the diamond in a
   measurement system, such as the Sarin DiaScan       S+TM. The measurement system
   generates a plurality of electronic test results, among which include a copy of the Hearts
   & Arrows pattern. The jewelry consultant may then send an electronic copy of the Hearts
   & Arrows pattern over communication channel 602 to the customer's client terminal 600.
[00245]     During the interactive communication session, the jewelry consultant also may
   test the color and fluorescence of the diamond. In at least one embodiment, the diamond
   is placed under a light performance analyzer. Using high-tech algorithms, the light
   performance analyzer calculates the color of the diamond and measures its fluorescence.
   The jewelry consultant may use the light performance analyzer to demonstrate and
   compare the color quality of the selected diamonds.
[00246]     For example, a customer may wish to purchase a "near colorless" diamond, rather
   than a "colorless" diamond. However, the customer may be concerned about his fiance
   detecting the difference. To reassure the customer, the jewelry consultant may provide
   the customer with a side-by-side comparison of a colorless diamond and near colorless
   diamond. The customer may watch, via monitor 610, the jewelry consultant perform the
   test on each stone. As such, the jewelry consultant demonstrates that despite the color
   grade difference, it is near impossible to determine the actual difference by the naked eye.
   The customer is able to confirm this assessment via monitor 610 as well. Some example
   of diamond light performance analyzers are the Sarin ColibriTM device or OGI MegaFire
   device.
[00247]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant performs a color-quality test
   using a device called the Zvi Yehuda Colorimeter. The Yehuda colorimeter may be used
   alone, or it can be connected to a portable rough analyzer, such as the OGI Tender
   device.
                                                48

[00248]    In some embodiments, the customer may request a test or lighting conditions to
   demonstrate any fluorescence of a gem such as a diamond. In response, the gemologist
   may cause an ultraviolet light source such as a black light to be shined on the diamond to
   demonstrate its fluorescence, which may be displayed via video feed to the customer.
   Such fluorescence may be demonstrated with reference to one or more reference
   gemstones, such as similar sized diamonds having no, light, medium, and strong blue
   fluorescence.
[00249]    Another quality-related test evaluates the quality of a diamond's cut and
   proportion. In at least one embodiment, the diamond is placed under a diamond
   proportion analyzer, which generates a variety of reports about the diamond's
   proportions. The reports may contain information about the diamond's weight, diameter,
   depth, crown angle, crown height, pavilion angle, pavilion height, cutlet size, culet off
   center, table size, table off center, stars, lower girdle and upper girdle.
[00250]    In at least one embodiment, the quality-related tests are conducted by a
   comprehensive measurement system. The measurement system is capable of
   administering multiple quality-related tests. For example, the Sarin DiaScan   S+TM   is a
   device that performed a combination of the above-described tests. The DiaScan device
   demonstrates the proportion of the diamond and provides a complete three dimensional
   profile of the diamond. The device also provides a cut grading report for the diamond.
   Additionally, the device provides a photorealistic view of the Hearts & Arrows pattern as
   well.
[00251]    In some embodiments, a customer may request cut score measurements based on
   the "Holloway Cut Advisor" (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 7,251,619) based on various
   measurements of a diamond, such as crown angle and pavilion angle. Such score may be
   calculated, and the Holloway Cut Advisor information may be provided to the customer.
[00252]    In at least one embodiment, the test results from any of the above-described tests
   are simultaneously displayed on the jewelry consultant's monitor 614 and the customer's
   monitor 610. In another embodiment, the jewelry consultant obtains an electronic copy
                                                  49

   of the test results and sends the electronic copy over communications channel 402 to
   client terminal 600.
[00253]     B.       Authenticity-Related Tests
[00254]     In addition to quality-related tests, the jewelry consultant also may conduct tests
   that confirm the authenticity of a selected diamond.
[00255]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses an electronic thermal
   probe to test the thermal conductivity of a diamond. Since real diamonds possess
   superlative thermal conductivity, the thermal probe allows the jewelry consultants to
   distinguish a real diamond from various imitators, such as Cubic Zirconia (CZ).
[00256]     In some embodiments, the thermal probes consist of a pair of battery-powered
   thermistors mounted in a fine copper tip. One of the thermistors functions as a heating
   device while the other thermistor measures the temperature of the copper tip. If the stone
   being tested is a diamond, the thermal probe will conduct the tip's thermal energy rapidly
   enough to produce a measurable temperature drop. On the other hand, because many
   imitation diamonds, such as CZ, are thermal insulators, these imitators will fail to
   conduct the thermistor's heat.
[00257]     In at least one embodiment, the thermal probes are highly sensitive and thus
   capable of distinguishing between a diamond and Moissanite (an imitation diamond
   stimulant that has a thermal conductivity similar to a diamond). The thermal probe also
   may have enough sensitivity to distinguish whether an imitator has been coated with a
   nano diamond coating, which is an extremely thin layer of diamond material.
[00258]     Another authenticity-related test is conducted by a refractometer. The jewelry
   consultant uses a refractometer to determine the type of mineral or gem. The
   refractometer precisely measures a gemstone's refractive index (RI) and compares the RI
   number with the inherent refractive index of the mineral. For example, a jewelry
   consultant may use a refractometer to distinguish between a colorless sapphire (low RI)
   and a diamond (high RI) by comparing the refractive indices generated by the
   refractometer.
                                                 50

[00259]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant also uses a Gemeter (or
   Jemeter) to measure the refractive index of faceted gemstones. The Gemeter uses a laser
   like beam of radiation to reflect off of a facet of the gemstone. The top layers of atoms
   are scanned by placing the facet directly over the examination disc. The jewelry
   consultant evaluates the generated RI in order to distinguish a diamond from an imitation
   stone.
[00260]     In at least one embodiment, a video camera is attached to the Ideal-scope, so that
   video images of the gemstone under the Ideal-scope are transmitted to the customer's
   monitor 610. Thus, the customer at client terminal 600 is able to view the resulting
   pattern and evaluate firsthand the refraction of the red/pink light from the diamond.
[00261]     In at least another embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses a polariscope to test
   the gemstone of interest. The polariscope uses two polarizing filters orientated at right
   angles to each other. The gemstone is placed between the two polarizing filters. The
   polariscope also may have a built-in light source underneath the bottom filter. A jewelry
   consultant uses the polariscope to evaluate whether a gemstone is single refracting, such
   as a diamond, or double refracting, such as a CZ or Moissanite. In at least one
   embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses the polariscope to detect any stresses with in the
   gemstone's materials.
[00262]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses a spectroscope to test the
   gemstone. The spectroscope is used to determine whether a gemstone is made from a
   natural material or a synthetic material. Spectroscopes generally use high-dispersion
   diffraction grating film, movable slits, and a photodetector to measure the properties of
   light within a specific portion of the spectrum. Each natural and synthetic mineral has a
   unique spectral "signature" that can be identified when compared to a full spectrum
   Fraunhofer chart. As such, the level of absorption and/or transmission from a full
   spectrum light source that passes through the crystal will identify subtle variations in
   chemical composition.
[00263]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses a Raman Imaging
   Spectrometer, which is a sophisticated testing device that can be used to identify
                                                51

   inclusions in a gemstone. The Raman Imaging Spectrometer also can determine whether
   a diamond is a synthetic diamond that has been grown or created in a laboratory. For
   example, the Raman Imaging Spectrometer can determine whether the diamond is a
   laboratory-created High Pressure High Temperature (HPHT) diamond. The Raman
   Imagine Spectrometer also can detect the presence of any artificial resin in a gemstone,
   such as emerald fillers.
[00264]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses a Chelsea filter to test the
   gemstone. The Chelsea filter also may be referred to as an "emerald filter" or "color
   filter." The Chelsea filer is a gemological dichromatic filter that can help separate some
   natural gemstones from their synthetic counterparts. The Chelsea filter absorbs visible
   light with the exception of long red wavelengths, which are transmitted through the filter
   causing some minerals to change color. The change of color in the gemstone is due to the
   absorption and transmission of different wavelengths of full-spectrum white light. For
   example, the "green" of an emerald is created from a combination of different
   wavelengths that can help distinguish chromium-colored (natural) emeralds from emerald
   imitations, which are often colored by elements other than chromium. A natural emerald
   that is colored by chromium will appear as pink or red in the Chelsea Filter. On the other
   hand, transparent blue stones that appear pink or dirty red under a Chelsea filter should be
   suspected of enhancement treatments using chromium.
[00265]     In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses a magnification lens, such
   as a darkfield diamond viewer to test the gemstone. A darkfield diamond viewer is a
   portable "darkfield" loX loupe for inspecting diamonds and other gemstones. Using
   darkfield illumination, a gemologist can detect fracture-filled stones, or diamonds that
   have undergone clarity enhancement. The process of fracture-filling involves filling
   cracks in diamonds with molten glass to improve their clarity. Because only thin glass
   film is used, the color or weight of the diamond is usually unaffected. As a result, a
   fracture-filled diamond can be easily overlooked by the naked eye. Thus, the jewelry
   consultant may use the darkfield diamond viewer to determine whether a diamond emits
   flashes of color (or the "flash effect"). The jewelry consultants also may use the
   darkfield diamond viewer to help detect small inclusions in a gemstone.
                                               52

[00266]    In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant uses a scale to measure the
   weight of a finished jewelry piece and/or a gemstone. The scale may be a digital
   electronic scale and may employ weight units in grams, ounces or carats.
[00267]    In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant measures the specific gravity
   of a gemstone. One process for testing the specific gravity may involve using heavy
   liquids or hydrostatic weighing. Specific gravity (SG), is a measurement of the relative
   density of a gem or mineral. Relative density is a comparative scale of how tightly the
   atoms are grouped in a given material. Using heavy liquids to measure specific gravity
   starts with several containers of different liquid solutions, each with gradually increasing
   density. A gemstone will sink, float, or rise to the surface depending on its specific
   gravity in relation to the liquid.
[00268]    V.       Designing Customized Ring Setting
[00269]    Once the customer has selected a diamond to purchase, he has the option of
   creating a customized setting for the diamond.
[00270]    FIG. 8a illustrates an exemplary example of interactive design tool 800 for
   designing a customized ring setting. Although the exemplary example illustrates the
   customization of a ring setting, interactive design tool 800 may be applied to any piece of
   jewelry item. For example, interactive design tool 800 may be used to design a bracelet,
   a necklace, a pendant, and a brooch.
[00271]    Referring back to FIG.8a, interactive design tool 800 comprises design template
   846, which is a customizable image of the jewelry piece. In the exemplary example,
   design template 846 shows an image of a ring setting. As shown in FIG. 8a, interactive
   design tool 800 allows customers to select and change various components of the ring,
   such as head 802, side stones 804 and band 806.
[00272]    FIG. 8b illustrates another example of interactive design tool 800. In FIG. 8b,
   interactive design tool 800 provides additional customization features to the user. For
   example, the customer may highlight and customize prong 832 and edge 834.
                                                53

[00273]      Interactive design tool 800 also comprises toolbar 808 that offer the available
   option choices for each ring component. Toolbar 808 comprises tab 810-818 which
   represent the categories of the available option choices. Tabs 810-812 are directed at the
   various components of the ring setting. Tab 816 is directed the available shape choices
   for a diamond. For example, the customer may use interactive design tool 800 in the
   beginning of his diamond search in order to decide which shape of diamond to purchase.
   Toolbar 808 also comprises tab 818 for inputting the size of the ring band.
[00274]      When a customer clicks on one of tabs 810-818, toolbar 800 expands to display a
   plurality of option choices related to the selected tab category. For example, the
   customer may select tab 812 for the category of side stones. In return, tool bar 808
   expands to offer a plurality of choices, such as a pave setting, a channel setting, a
   baguette setting, a preset setting, and a three-stone ring setting. In at least one
   embodiment, the side stones may take on any number of shapes. Some example shapes
   may include: Asscher cut, baguillion cut, barocut, briolette cut, corona cut, crosscut cut,
   cushion cut, Czar cut, flanders square cut, grace cut, half moon cut, heart-shaped cut,
   Marquise cut, radiant cut, oval cut, pear-shaped cut, princess cut, quadrillion cut, regent
   cut, trillion cut, virtue cut or round cut.
[00275]      In at least one embodiment, each of tab categories 810-818 expands into
   subcategories. Each subcategory may be directed at an option choice for the ring setting.
   In at least one embodiment, each subcategory is capable of being expanded into
   additional subcategories. For example, as shown in FIG. 8c, the customer selects tab 810
   for the category of ring head. Toolbar 808 expands into the subcategories of shape of
   stone 848, head setting 850, and prong setting 852. If the customer selects prong setting
   tab 852, then toolbar 808 expands further into subcategories of number of prongs 854 or
   style of prong 860. Selecting tab 854 for number of prong results in toolbar 808 further
   expanding into choices of a 4-prong mount or a 6-prong mount.
[00276]      In at least one embodiment, the customer places a cursor over the section of the
   ring setting that he wishes to customize. Interactive design tool 800 then highlights the
   selected section of the ring. Tool bar 812 also displays the available options for the
                                                54

   highlighted section of the ring. As shown in Fig. 8d, the customer highlights band 806
   for the ring. Toolbar 808 then displays tabs 862-866 which correspond to subcategories
   shank style, edge type and metal type. If the customer selects tab 866 for metal type, then
   tool bar 808 displays the options for the available metal types for the band. Tabs 836-844
   correspond to the choices of a platinum band, a white gold band, a yellow gold band, a
   silver band and a titanium band. The customer selects an option by clicking on
   corresponding tabs 836-844.
[00277]     For example, the customer may select platinum tab 836. In response, interactive
   design tool 800 automatically updates band 806 on design template 846 to reflect the
   selection of platinum. If the customer then clicks yellow gold tab 838, then interactive
   design tool 800 automatically changes band 806 to be yellow gold. The customer may
   choose to quickly click through each of the available choices in toolbar 808 before
   making his final selection. Once the customer has decided on a metal type for band 806,
   he then clicks update button 830, which updates the image pictured in preview box 824.
[00278]     In at least one embodiment, the customer select tab 862 for shank style. Toolbar
   808 expands to display a variety of options for the shank, or the part of the ring that
   encircles the finger. Some options for shank style may include a rounded style or a
   European (square) style.
[00279]     In at least one embodiment, the customer selects tab 864 for edge type. Toolbar
   808 expands to display a variety of options for the edge of the ring band. Some options
   for edge style may include a half round edge, a square edge, a knife edge or a comfort fit
   edge.
[00280]     Referring back to FIG. 8a, the customer also may make changes to design
   template 846 by clicking on corresponding tabs 810-818. When the customer selects a
   tab, toolbar 808 expands to display the available options for the selected tab. FIG. 8d
   illustrates an exemplary example of a customer selecting shape tab 816. In response to
   the customer's selection of shape tab 816, toolbar 808 expands to display the available
   diamond shapes. In the example illustrated in FIG. 8e, the customer selects heart-shaped
   diamond 868. Design template 846 is automatically updated to display the heart-shaped
                                               55

   diamond. Once the customer selects update button 830, interactive design tool 800
   updates the image in previous box 824.
[00281]    In at least one embodiment, the customer may rotate design template 846 in a 360
   degree view. The customer clicks on design template 846 and drags the mouse around in
   order to cause design template 846 to rotate about an axis. The "click and drag" function
   allows the customer to view design template 846 from a variety of different angles.
[00282]    In at least one embodiment, interactive design tool 800 displays design template
   846 in four different views: top view, bottom view and side views. Buttons correspond
   to each view is present on interactive design tool 800. By selecting the corresponding
   button, the customer can toggle between each of the views available for design template
   846.
[00283]    After the customer finishes designing the ring setting, he has several options on
   how to proceed. In at least one embodiment, the customer selects save button 826 which
   saves the most recent image of preview box 824. The image may be stored in the
   database of the website, or the image may be saved locally at the customer's location. In
   another embodiment, the customer selects share button 828 which allows him to share the
   image of preview box 824 with another person. In at least one embodiment, interactive
   design tool 800 displays an electronic submission box in response to the selection of
   share button 828. The customer inputs an e-mail address for the intended recipient. The
   customer also may include a message in the electronic submission box. The website then
   sends an electronic message to the recipient with either the designed image, or the
   website may send a link to the designed image.
[00284]    In at least one embodiment, in response to the selection of share button 828,
   interactive design tool 800 provides the customer with an option of posting either an
   image of the designed ring setting or a link to the designed image to variety of social
   media sites, such as Facebook, Twitter and Blogger.
[00285]    At any point during the design process, the customer may request a live
   interactive communication session with a jewelry designer. Similar to the process
                                              56

   previously described for scheduling an interactive communication session with a live
   jewelry consultant, the customer submits a request for an interactive communication
   session with a jewelry designer. The customer's request is routed through
   communication channel 602 to request handling system 604.
[00286]     In one embodiment, request handling system 604 randomly assigns the customer
   to a first available jewelry designer. In another embodiment, the customer specifies a
   particular designer for the interactive communication session. The customer may include
   the name of the designer in the request that is submitted to request handling system 604.
   For example, the customer may have developed a positive working experience with a
   particular jewelry designer. Thus, the customer may wish to continue working with this
   same designer. In another example, the customer may wish to specify a particular
   jewelry designer based on a personal reference or recommendation.
[00287]     In at least one embodiment, the customer selects a jewelry designer based on the
   jewelry consultant's public profile, which is displayed on the website. The public profile
   may include a photograph of the designer and a biography of the designer's background.
   The biography may include educational background, relevant work experiences and a
   sample portfolio of his or her work.
[00288]     In at least one embodiment, the website allows previous customers to write a
   review for each jewelry designer. Similar to the review and ranking system for jewelry
   consultants, the website allows previous customers to rank each designer. The reviews
   and rankings may be published on the website next to each jewelry designer's profiles.
   In one example, the customer selects a jewelry designer based on the ranking and reviews
   posted.
[00289]     As shown in FIG. 6, request handling system 604 identifies a jewelry designer for
   the customer. Request handling system 604 then sends the request to the jewelry's
   workstation 626. In at least one embodiment, the jewelry designer may accept the
   request by clicking on a button or a link to indicate that he is available for the requested
   date and time of the interactive communication session. Designer workstation 626 then
   transmits an indication of the jewelry consultant's acceptance back to request handling
                                               57

   system 604. In response, request handling system 604 generates an interactive
   communication session between client terminal 600 and designer workstation 626 at the
   requested date and time.
[00290]     In at least one embodiment, the interactive communication session is a three-way
   video conference with the customer, jewelry designer and jewelry consultant. Together,
   the jewelry designer and the jewelry consultant help the customer selected a gemstone
   and create a setting. In at least one embodiment, request handling system 604 does not
   need to generate an interactive communication session between the customer and the
   jewelry designer. Rather, the jewelry consultant selects a conference button that connects
   the jewelry designer into the existing interactive communication session.
[00291]     In another embodiment, the jewelry designer merely takes over the jewelry
   consultant's place at workstation 612. No new interactive communication session is
   necessary. The customer continues discussions with the jewelry designer on the existing
   interactive communication session. In at least one embodiment, the jewelry consultant is
   the jewelry designer.
[00292]     In at least one embodiment, the customer uploads an image of a desired setting.
   Client terminal 600 transmits the uploaded image over communication channel 602 to
   jewelry designer workstation 626. The jewelry designer analyzes the uploaded image. In
   one embodiment, the designer attempts to locate a pre-designed setting that matches the
   uploaded image. In another example, the designer attempts to recreate the uploaded
   image. Still in another example, the jewelry designer and customer discussion the
   uploaded image over the interactive communication session. The jewelry designer may
   break down various components of the uploaded image and discuss the various options
   for replication. In at least one embodiment, the customer uploads multiple images and
   specifies which components of each image that he wishes to analyze.
[00293]     For example, the customer may submit several images of celebrity engagement
   ring. The customer may indicate that he likes the shape of the diamond in one ring
   setting and wishes to incorporate the side stones of another image. The jewelry designer
   would analyze the uploaded image and determine the various components that can be
                                               58

   emulated. The designer may determine that customer likes the heart-shaped diamond and
   a baguette style side stone. As such, the jewelry designer will work with the customer in
   designing a unique ring setting that incorporates the traits of a heart-shaped diamond and
   baguette-style side stones.
[00294]     In at least one embodiment, the uploaded image is analyzed by image-recognition
   software. The image-recognition software determines the various components of the
   uploaded image that are capable of being emulated.
[00295]     In at least one embodiment, the customer selects a pre-designed setting from a
   gallery of pre-designed settings, and uses the pre-designed setting as his customized
   setting.
[00296]     In at least one embodiment, the customer reviews a gallery of pre-designed
   settings and uses a pre-designed setting for a portion of his customized setting.
[00297]     VI.      Other Embodiments
[00298]     A method comprising: receiving, via a processor, a request from a remote device
   to communicate with a jewelry consultant concerning at least one jewelry item, in which
   the processor and the remote device are in electronic communication via a network;
   generating, via the processor in response to the request, an interactive communication
   session between the jewelry consultant and the remote device, in which the interactive
   communication session transmits live video images of the jewelry consultant and the at
   least one jewelry item to the remote device; applying, via the processor, at least one test
   on the at least one jewelry item; and transmitting, via the processor, a test result that is
   generated from applying the at least one test on the at least one jewelry item.
[00299]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving live video images of a
   customer from the remote device.
[00300]     The method of claim 1, in which the video images are captured via at least one of:
   a video camera; and a webcam.
                                               59

[00301]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: transmitting the request to
   communicate to the jewelry consultant, in which the request to communicate comprises a
   proposed date and a proposed time for the interactive communication session.
[00302]     The method of claim 4 further comprising: receiving an acceptance of the request
   to communicate; and transmitting an indication of the acceptance to the remote device.
[00303]     The method of claim 4 further comprising: receiving a decline of the request to
   communicate; and transmitting an indication of the decline to the remote device.
[00304]     The method of claim 6 further comprising: receiving an alternative time and an
   alterative date for the interactive communication session.
[00305]     The method of claim 7, in which the alternative time and the alternative date are
   submitted by the jewelry consultant.
[00306]     The method of claim 7, in which the alternative time and the alternative date are
   submitted by the remote device.
[00307]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving at least one desired criterion
   for the jewelry consultant; and selecting the jewelry consultant for the interactive
   communication session, in which the jewelry consultant matches the at least one desired
   criterion.
[00308]     The method of claim 10, in which the at least one desired criterion comprises at
   least one of: a gender, an educational background, a certification, a license, a level of
   experience, a sales number, a quantity of positive reviews and a quantity of negative
   reviews.
[00309]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting the jewelry consultant from a
   plurality of jewelry consultants.
[00310]     The method of claim 1, which the jewelry consultant is at least one of: a certified
   gemologist; and a salesperson.
                                              60

[00311]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a request to communicate
   with a specific jewelry consultant, in which the specific jewelry consultant is selected
   from a plurality of jewelry consultants.
[00312]     The method of claim 14, in which each of the plurality of jewelry consultants has
   a biography that is viewable online; and in which the specific jewelry consultant is
   selected based at least on the biography of the specific jewelry consultant.
[00313]     The method of claim 15, in which the biography comprises at least one review
   concerning the specific jewelry consultant, in which the at least one review is written by a
   previous customer.
[00314]     The method of claim 15, in which the biography comprises a ranking of the
   specific jewelry consultant in comparison to the plurality of jewelry consultants.
[00315]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving at least one undesired
   criterion for the jewelry consultant; and selecting the jewelry consultant for the
   interactive communication session, in which the jewelry consultant does not possess the
   at least one undesired criterion.
[00316]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving at least one blacklisted
   jewelry consultant; and selecting the jewelry consultant from a plurality of jewelry
   consultants, in which the plurality of jewelry consultant does not comprise the at least
   one blacklisted jewelry consultant.
[00317]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: causing a display device to display the
   at least one jewelry item under a microscope, in which the microscope outputs at least
   one magnified image of the at least one jewelry item; and transmitting the at least one
   magnified image of the at least one jewelry item to the remote device.
[00318]     The method of claim 20, in which the microscope is capable of receiving input
   information from the remote device.
                                               61

[00319]    The method of claim 21 further comprising: receiving an instruction from the
   remote device to generate a magnified image of the at least one jewelry item; and
   transmitting the magnified image of the at least one jewelry item to the remote device.
[00320]    The method of claim 20, in which a video camera is attached to the microscope.
[00321]    The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a request to compare the at
   least one jewelry item with a benchmark object; and transmitting video images of the at
   least one jewelry item and the benchmark object to the remote device.
[00322]    The method of claim 24, in which the benchmark object comprises a model's
   hand.
[00323]    The method of claim 25, in which the model's hand is available in a plurality of
   sizes.
[00324]    The method of claim 25, in which the model's hand is available in a plurality of
   skin tones.
[00325]    The method of claim 25, in which the model's hand is available in either male
   form or female form.
[00326]    The method of claim 25, in which the model's hand is available in either child
   form or adult form.
[00327]    The method of claim 1 further comprising:
[00328]    receiving a request to provide a side-by-side comparison of at least two jewelry
   items; and transmitting video images of the side-by-side comparison to the remote
   device.
[00329]    The method of claim 30, in which the at least two jewelry items are diamonds that
   share at least one of: a same cut, a same color, a same clarity, a same carat size and a
   same cost.
                                               62

[00330]     The method of claim 31, in which the at least two jewelry items are diamonds that
   share a same cut, a same color, a same clarity and a same carat size.
[00331]     The method of claim 30, in which the least two jewelry items are diamonds that
   differ on at least one of: a cut, a color, a clarity, a carat size and a cost.
[00332]     The method of claim 1, in which the at least one test comprises at least one of: a
   quality-related tests; and an authenticity-related test.
[00333]     The method of claim 1, in which the at least one test comprises an ASET test; and
   the method further comprising: generating an ASET image in response to application of
   the ASET test on the at least one jewelry item; and transmitting the ASET image to the
   remote device.
[00334]     The method of claim 1, in which the at least one test comprises a Hearts and
   Arrows test; and the method further comprising: generating a Hearts and Arrows image
   in response to application of the Hearts and Arrows test; and transmitting the Hearts and
   Arrows image to the remote device.
[00335]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a request to adjust a lighting
   that is being directed on the at least one jewelry item.
[00336]     The method of claim 37, in which adjusting the lighting comprises: adjusting an
   intensity of the lighting.
[00337]     The method of claim 37, in which adjusting the lighting comprises: adjusting a
   color of the lighting.
[00338]     The method of claim 37, in which adjusting the lighting comprises: adjusting the
   type of lighting.
[00339]     The method of claim 37, in which the lighting is capable of replicating a lighting
   of various times of day.
                                                  63

[00340]     The method of claim 37, in which the lighting is capable of replicating a lighting
   of various environments.
[00341]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a request to customize a
   setting for the at least one jewelry item.
[00342]     The method of claim 43, in which the setting may be at least one of: a ring
   setting, an earring setting, and a pendant.
[00343]     The method of claim 43 further comprising: receiving a request from a remote
   device to communicate with a jewelry designer; and generating, in response to the
   request, an interactive communication session between the jewelry designer and the
   remote device.
[00344]     The method of claim 1 further comprising: generating an interactive design tool
   for designing a customized setting, in which the interactive design tool comprises an
   electronic template of the customized setting and the customized setting comprises a
   plurality of sections; detecting a selection of a first section of the customized setting;
   providing at least two customizable options for the first section of the customized setting;
   receiving a selection of one of the at least two customizable options; and generating a
   representation of the selected one of the at least two customizable options on the
   electronic template.
[00345]     The method of claim 46, in which detecting the selection of the first section of the
   customized setting comprises: detecting that a cursor over the first section of the
   customized setting.
[00346]     The method of claim 46, in which the first section comprises a head of a ring; and
   the at least two customizable options for the head of the ring comprises at least two of: a
   shape of stone; a head setting; a prong setting; a quantity of prongs; and a type of prong.
[00347]     The method of claim 48, in which the shape of stone comprises at least one of: an
   Asscher cut, a cushion cut, an emerald cut, a heart-shaped cut, a marquise cut, an oval
   cut, a pear cut, a princess cut, and a radiant cut.
                                                64

[00348]    The method of claim 48, in which the head setting comprises at least one of: a
   half-bezel head; and a full-bezel head.
[00349]    The method of claim 48, in which the quantity of prongs comprises at least one
   of: a no-prong setting; a four-prong setting; and a six-prong setting.
[00350]    The method of claim 48, in which the type of prong comprises at least one of: an
   all-around mount, a cathedral mount, a claw mount, an illusion mount, a split mount, a
   tension mount, a closed gallery mount, and an open gallery mount.
[00351]    The method of claim of 46, in which the first section comprises a band of a ring;
   and the at least two customizable options for the band comprise at least two of: a type of
   metal; a shank style; a type of edge finish; a width of the shank; and a height of the
   shank.
[00352]    The method of claim 53, in which the type of metal comprises one of: a platinum
   metal, a white gold metal , a yellow gold metal, a silver metal, and a titanium metal.
[00353]    The method of claim 53, in which the shank style comprises at least one of: a
   rounded style and a European style.
[00354]    The method of claim 53, in which the type of edge finish comprises at least one
   of: a half-round edge, a knife edge, a square edge and a comfort fit.
[00355]    The method of claim 46, in which the first section comprises a side stone of a
   ring; and the at least two customizable options for the side stone comprise at least two of:
   an Asscher cut, a baguillion cut, a barocut, a briolette cut, a corona cut, a crosscut cut, a
   cushion cut, a Czar cut, a Flanders square cut, a grace cut, a half moon cut, a heart-shaped
   cut, a Marquise cut, a radiant cut, a oval cut, a pear-shaped cut, a princess cut, a
   quadrillion cut, a regent cut, a trillion cut, a virtue cut and a round cut.
[00356]    The method of claim 57 in which the side stone comprises any gemstone that is
   available.
                                                  65

[00357]     The method of claim 46 further comprising: receiving a request to rotate the
   customized setting in three dimensions.
[00358]     The method of claim 59, in which the request to rotate the customized setting
   comprises: detecting a selection of a click-and-drag button located on the interactive
   design tool.
[00359]     The method of claim 46 further comprising: receiving a request to rotate the
   customized setting along at least one of: a x-axis; a y-axis; and a z-axis.
[00360]     The method of claim 46 further comprising: receiving a request to save the
   customized setting; and storing the saved customized setting in a database.
[00361]     The method of claim 46 further comprising: receiving a request to send an
   electronic link of the customized setting, in which the request comprises an email address
   for a recipient of the electronic link; and transmitting an email with the electronic link to
   the email address.
[00362]     The method of claim 46 further comprising: receiving a request to post an
   electronic link of the customized setting to a social network site, in which at least one
   individual may vote or comment on the posted customized setting.
[00363]     The method of claim 1, in which the at least one jewelry item is a diamond and
   the diamond comprises a certificate that is viewable online.
[00364]     The method of claim 65, in which the certificate is issued by one of: Gemological
   Institute of America (GIA), International Gemological Institute (IGI), American
   Gemological Society (AGS) or European Gemological Society (EGL).
[00365]     An apparatus comprising: a processor that is connected via a network to: (i) a
   video camera for capturing a video file of a jewelry consultant and at least one jewelry
   item, and transmitting the video file via a live video stream to a video output located on a
   remote device; (ii) an audio input for capture a audio file of the jewelry consultant's
   voice and transmitting the sound file to an audio output located on the remote device; and
   a memory, in which the memory stores instructions which, when executed by the
                                                66

   processor, direct the processor to perform the method of: receiving a request from the
   remote device to communicate with a jewelry consultant concerning at least one jewelry
   item; generating, in response to the request, an interactive communication session
   between the jewelry consultant and the remote device, in which the interactive
   communication session transmits live video images of the jewelry consultant and the at
   least one jewelry item to the remote device; applying at least one test on the at least one
   jewelry item; and transmitting a test result that is generated from applying the at least one
   test on the at least one jewelry item.
[00366]     The apparatus of claim 67 further comprising: a microscope that outputs images
   of the at least one jewelry item and is capable of receiving instructions from the remote
   device.
[00367]     An article of manufacture comprising: a storage medium, in which the storage
   medium stores instructions which, when executed by a processor, direct the processor to
   perform the method of: receiving a request from the remote device to communicate with
   a jewelry consultant concerning at least one jewelry item; generating, in response to the
   request, an interactive communication session between the jewelry consultant and the
   remote device, in which the interactive communication session transmits live video
   images of the jewelry consultant and the at least one jewelry item to the remote device;
   applying at least one test on the at least one jewelry item; and transmitting a test result
   that is generated from applying the at least one test on the at least one jewelry item.
[00368]     A method comprising: viewing, via a processor, a plurality of jewelry items that
   are available for sale via an online webpage; transmitting, via the processor, a request to
   communicate with a jewelry consultant located at a remote device about at least one
   jewelry item, in which the processor and the remote device are in electronic
   communication via a network; receiving, via the processor in response to the request to
   communicate, an interactive communication session with the jewelry consultant, in which
   the interactive communication session transmits live video images of the jewelry
   consultant and the at least one jewelry item; transmitting, via the processor, a request to
   apply at least one test on the at least one jewelry item; and receiving, via the processor, a
                                                 67

   test result that is generated from applying the at least one test on the at least one jewelry
   item.
[00369]     The method of claim 70, in which the interactive communication session appears
   on a monitor screen.
[00370]     The method of claim 71, in which the monitor screen splits into at least two
   sections, in which a first section comprises the online webpage and a second section
   comprises the interactive communication session with the jewelry consultant.
[00371]     The method of claim 71, in which the interactive communication session causes a
   pop-up box to appear on the monitor screen.
[00372]     The method of claim 70 further comprising: submitting at least search criteria for
   the at least one jewelry item, in which the at least search criteria is a category.
[00373]     The method of claim 74, in which the at least one category comprises at least one
   of: a price of a diamond, a carat size of a diamond, a cut of a diamond, a color of a
   diamond, and a clarity of a diamond.
[00374]     The method of claim 70 further comprising: submitting, via a processor, a request
   to view the at least one jewelry item under a microscope, in which the microscope
   outputs video images of the at least one jewelry item and is capable of receiving input
   information from a remote device.
[00375]     The method of claim 76. further comprising: receiving, in response to the request
   to view, live video images of the at least one jewelry item under the microscope.
[00376]     The method of claim 76. further comprising: receiving, in response to the request
   to view, a high-resolution image of the at least one jewelry item under the microscope.
[00377]
[00378]     The method of 76 further comprising: transmitting an instruction directly to the
   microscope via an input device.
                                               68

[00379]     The method of claim 79, in which the instruction comprises: instructing the
   microscope to increase a zoom of a lens by a percentage in order to generate a magnified
   image of the least one jewelry item.
[00380]     The method of claim 80 further comprising: receiving the magnified image of the
   at least one jewelry item over the live video stream.
[00381]     The method of claim 79 further comprising: instructing the digital microscope to
   decrease a zoom of a lens by a percentage to generate a minimized image of the at least
   one jewelry item.
[00382]     The method of claim 82 further comprising: receiving the minimized image of the
   at least one jewelry item over the live video stream.
[00383]     The method of claim 70 further comprising: submitting a request to customize a
   setting for the at least one jewelry item.
[00384]     The method of claim 70 further comprising: transmitting a request to
   communicate with a jewelry designer.
[00385]     The method of claim 70 further comprising: utilizing an interactive design tool for
   designing a customized setting, in which the interactive design tool comprises an
   electronic template of the customized setting and the customized setting comprises a
   plurality of sections; selecting a first section of the customized setting; receiving at least
   two customizable options for the first section of the customized setting; selecting one of
   the at least two customizable options; and receiving a representation of the selected one
   of the at least two customizable options on the electronic template.
[00386]     The method of claim 86, in which selecting the first section of the customized
   setting further comprises: moving a cursor over the first section of the customized setting.
[00387]     The method of claim 86 further comprising: submitting a request to rotate the
   customized setting in three dimensions.
                                                 69

[00388]     The method of claim 88, in which the request to rotate the customized setting
   comprises: detecting a selection of a click-and-drag button located on the interactive
   design tool.
[00389]     The method of claim 86 further comprising: transmitting a request to save the
   customized setting.
[00390]     The method of claim 86 further comprising: transmitting a request to send an
   electronic link of the customized setting, in which the request comprises an email address
   for a recipient of the electronic link.
[00391]     The method of claim 86 further comprising: transmitting a request to post an
   electronic link of the customized setting to a social network site, in which at least one
   individual may vote or comment on the posted customized setting.
[00392]     A method comprising: receiving, via a processor, a request from a remote device
   to communicate with a jewelry consultant concerning at least one jewelry item, in which
   the processor and the remote device are in electronic communication via a network; and
   generating, via the processor in response to the request, an interactive communication
   session between the jewelry consultant and the remote device, in which the interactive
   communication session transmits live video images of the jewelry consultant and the at
   least one jewelry item to the remote device
[00393]     The method of claim 93 further comprising: applying, via the processor, at least
   one test on the at least one jewelry item; and transmitting, via the processor, a test result
   that is generated from applying the at least one test on the at least one jewelry item.
                                               70

What is claimed is:
 1.     A method for designing a customized jewelry item with a mobile device, the method
comprising:
        streaming real-time video imagery via a video camera that is attached to the mobile
device, in which the mobile device is in electronic communication over a network with a
remote server at a designer's location;
        viewing, via a display on the mobile device, images from an interactive design tool, in
which the images are viewable by both the customer and the designer, in which the
interactive design tool is capable of being manipulated by both the customer and the designer;
        transmitting, via a processor in the mobile device, a selection of at least one
gemstone, in which the at least one gemstone is used in designing the customized jewelry
item; transmitting, via the processor in the mobile device, a selection of at least one element
from a plurality of pre-designed elements, in which the at least one element is used in
designing a setting for the at least one gemstone; and
        receiving, via the processor in the mobile device, an electronic design of the
customized jewelry item.
2.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        transmitting, via a processor in the mobile device, a request to perform at least one
test on the selected gemstone; and
        receiving a result from the least one test that was performed on the gemstone.
3.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        transmitting, via the processor in the mobile device, a request to perform at least one
test on the customized jewelry item; and
        receiving a result from the least one test that was performed on the customized
jewelry item.
4.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        highlighting, via the interactive design tool, a first section of the setting; and
        receiving, in response to the highlighting of the first section, a plurality of pre
designed elements that correspond to the first section.
                                                71

5.      The method of claim 4 further comprising:
        highlighting, via the interactive design tool, a second section of the setting, in which
the second section differs from the first section; and
        receiving, in response to the highlighting of the second section, a plurality of pre
designed elements that correspond to the second section.
6.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        posting the electronic design of the customized jewelry item on a social media.
7.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        transmitting, via the processor in the mobile device, a desire to purchase the
customized jewelry item.
 8.     The method of claim 7 further comprising:
        receiving, from the remote server, a request for a payment information for the
purchase of the customized jewelry item; and
        transmitting, via the processor in the mobile device, the payment information.
9.      The method of claim 7 further comprising:
        transmitting, via the processor in the mobile device, an indication of a delivery option
for the delivery of the customized jewelry item.
 10.    The method of claim 9 further comprising:
        transmitting, via the processor in the mobile device, a request to insure the customized
jewelry item during delivery.
 11.    A mobile device for designing a customized jewelry item, the mobile device
comprising:
        a video camera that is capable of streaming real-time video imagery between a
customer and a remote server at a designer's location;
        a display that is capable of viewing images from an interactive design tool, in which
the images are viewable by both the customer and the designer, in which the interactive
design tool is capable of being manipulated by both the customer and the jewelry designer;
                                                72

        at least one processor; and
        a memory, in which the memory stores instructions which, when executed by the at
least one processor, direct the at least one processor to:
                 transmit a selection of at least one gemstone, in which the at least one
gemstone is used in designing the customized jewelry item;
                 transmit a selection of at least one element from a plurality of pre-designed
elements, in which the at least one element is used in designing a setting for the at least one
gemstone; and
                 receive an electronic design of the customized jewelry item.
12.     A method for designing a customized jewelry item, the method comprising:
        streaming real-time video imagery via a video camera that is attached to a mobile
device and a remote server at a designer's location, in which the mobile device and the remote
server are in electronic communication over a network;
        viewing, via a display, images from an interactive design tool, in which the images
are viewable by both the customer and the designer, in which the interactive design tool is
capable of being manipulated by both the customer and the designer;
        receiving, via a processor, a selection of at least one gemstone, in which the at least
one gemstone is used in designing the customized jewelry item;
        receiving, via the processor, a selection of at least one element from a plurality of pre
designed elements, in which the at least one element is used in designing a setting for the at
least one gemstone; and
        transmitting, via the processor, an electronic design of the customized jewelry item.
                                                  73

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
