ABSTRACT
        A work station for use in a system for medical dose preparation management,
comprising: a base; a support platform at least partially defining a medication preparation
staging region and having a support surface that includes a plurality of grooves defined by an
outside face of the support platform that are adapted to support at least a portion of a
medication receptacle, wherein a first portion of the plurality of grooves extend in a first
direction corresponding with a width of the support surface, and wherein a second portion of
the plurality of grooves extend across said first portion of the plurality of grooves in a second
direction corresponding with a length of the support surface; and, an imaging device
supportably disposed relative to the base and having an imaging field encompassing at least a
portion of the medication preparation staging region.

                                               1/15
                                   r-----------,           -10
                                                 PHARMACY 20
50    ________
      ACQUIRE DOSE
         ORDER DATA                                  16
                                             ORDER INPUT         12
                                                                            64
    24PREPROCESS                              3
        DOSE ORDER                                     30        DISPENSE DOSE
               DATA                                     _            ORDER
                                            MEDICAL DOSE
   ORGANIZE         DOSET
54             R                            MANAGEMENT       IKDOSE
        SCHEDULNGJl                                                  ORDER
         ORDERSDTOA
56      ROUTE DOSE                                SYT             66
      WORK STATION
                                           WORKSTATION
                                 580                                  62
                                                    FIG.1
                      FCDULFILLM

                                                  1
    IMPROVED WORK STATION FOR MEDICAL DOSE PREPARATION SYSTEM
          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
                <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
              Many care providers have a pharmacy that prepares medical doses for
    administration to patients that are treated by the care provider. In this regard, the
    pharmacies may employ a formulary to prepare medications in order to fulfil medical dose
 0  orders that are ordered by care provider personnel (e.g., physicians) for administration to
    patients. Some medical doses to be prepared may include compounded sterile products
    (CSPs) that may be prepared in specially constructed and controlled environment (e.g., an
    "IV Room") in the pharmacy. The process of preparing medical doses may be carried out in
    accordance with local policy, governmental regulations, industry organizations (e.g.,
 5  Chapter <797> of the United States Pharmacopoeia), or other applicable policies. For
    example, the preparation of medications may generally occur in a laminar airflow hood,
    isolator, or biological safety cabinet, by an operator (typically a pharmacy technician) who
    is tasked with preparing the medical doses. Once the medical doses are prepared, the
    medical doses may be required to be verified by a pharmacist prior to being dispensed from
 0O the pharmacy for administration to a patient.
              In traditional pharmacy management techniques, medical dose orders may be
    provided to a printer that prints labels indicative of the medical dose order that are to be
    applied to finished doses once the doses are prepared. A pharmacy technician may be
    required to retrieve labels from a label printer and use those labels as work order travellers
25  in the process of preparing each dose. Once the dose prepared, the technician may apply a
    label to the dose. The completed, labeled dose may be set aside for a pharmacist to check
    along with, for example, source ingredients, medicament receptacles used in the course of
    preparing the dose, and/or other material. In this regard, in order to check a dose, the
    pharmacist may be required to enter the clean room in which the doses are prepared and
30  physically observe the materials associated with the dose order. As such, the checking of
    prepared doses may require the pharmacist to dress in protective clothing or equipment,
    which takes time and resources.
              Furthermore, the only prompt a pharmacy may receive to prepare a medical dose
    order is the printing of the label. In this regard, if a label becomes lost or damaged, a dose

                                                  2
      may not be prepared. Additionally, prioritizing work also becomes difficult because the label
     stack at the label printer may be the only evidence of what doses have been ordered,
     prepared, and/or dispensed. As such, relying on physical labels alone to track doses may
     result in unprepared, lost, or duplicate doses. In some cases, pharmacies may produce
  5  duplicate labels as a matter of course such that the pharmacy must review each label
     against the other, already received labels, to determine if a label represents a new dose
     order that needs to be prepared. This practice may lead to increased administrative
     overhead in the pharmacy that add operational costs and reduce pharmacy efficiency.
              Furthermore, while instructions for preparation of a drug may be recorded in official
 10  FDA-approved literature for the drug, pharmacy technicians may not reliably consult the
     literature when preparing doses. Rather, pharmacy technicians may memorize the steps
     needed for the most common drugs, and then generalize those steps to other drugs to be
     prepared without verifying the protocols associated with a particular drug. In this regard, if
    the dose order includes special instructions that a pharmacy technician does not recognize,
 15  references regarding the proper techniques may not be present or may not be consulted.
    Accordingly, dose orders including special instructions often must be prepared by more
    experienced technicians or at the direction of more experienced technicians.           In either
    regard, the protocol used to prepare the dose may not conform to the FDA-approved
    literature for the drug being prepared.
20            Further still, in traditional pharmacy management techniques, the pharmacy
    technician may be responsible for creating records that are maintained in relation to doses
    that have been prepared and products from the formulary that were employed to make the
    dose. For example, a pharmacy technician may be tasked with transcribing information such
    as lot numbers, expiration dates, serial numbers, or the like. The manual creation of records
25  requires labor intensive practices that may result in pharmacy inefficiencies, introduces the
    potential for errors in the records, and may result in virtually unsearchable paper records.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             Embodiments of medical dose preparation management systems that may assist in
30  management of medical doses are described herein. The embodiments described herein
    may include one or more work stations that are used to assist in preparation of a medical
    dose order. For example, the work stations may be used to provide guidance to a technician
    regarding the preparation of a medical dose order, and/or the work order stations may be
    used to capture, collect, or compile data (e.g., metadata) regarding the medical dose order.
35  In this regard, metadata associated with the medical dose order may be stored in
    corresponding relation to the medical dose order such that the metadata may be accessible

                                                 3
     to a care provider before or after administration of the medical dose associated with the
     medical dose order to the patient. The metadata may include data regarding the prepared
     dose order, a component of the dose order, or the manner in which the prepared dose order
     or a component of the dose order was prepared. Accordingly, metadata captured, collected,
  5  or compiled at the work station may be used to organize, track, or otherwise manage
     medical dose orders. As such, examples of advantages facilitated by the medical dose
     preparation management system may include, among others, improved prioritization,
     organization, tracking, and records keeping for medical dose orders.
             For example, the metadata regarding a dose order may include one or more medical
 10  dose preparation images related to components of a medical dose order, steps carried out
     during the preparation of a dose order, or a finished dose order. In this regard, the medical
     dose preparation images may be used to document or evidence the preparation of a medical
     dose order. It may be appreciated that the quality of the medical dose preparation images
     obtained by the medical dose preparation management system may be an important
 15  consideration in the medical dose preparation management system.
             As such, it is presently recognized that the features and/or attributes of the work
    station may contribute to the accuracy, speed, and or quality at which the medical dose
    orders may be prepared by technicians at the work station while capturing, collecting, and/or
    compiling metadata (e.g., including medical dose preparation image data). As such, an
20  objective of the present disclosure is to present work stations that facilitate efficient work
    flows to enable a technician to efficiently prepare medical dose orders while obtaining dose
    order metadata. Additionally, an objective of the present disclosure is to present work
    stations that facilitate the capture of high quality medical dose preparation images
    comprising dose order metadata. In this regard, the efficient capture of high quality dose
25  order metadata during the preparation of a medical dose may contribute to patient safety,
    improve pharmacy efficiency, assist in pharmacy management, and/or provide other
    advantages as may be appreciated in the description presented herein. Furthermore, an
    objective of the present disclosure is to present work stations that may facilitate advantages
    related to administrative task performed at the work station such as work station cleaning.
30          Accordingly, a number of aspects are described herein that are related to a medical
    dose order management system. The various aspects discussed herein may be realized in
    isolation and/or in combination with one or more others of the aspects presented herein and
    thereby compose one or more additional aspects. In this application, the term aspect is
    used synonymous to the term embodiment. In other words, one or more features of one or
35  more aspects and/or one or more features of one or more embodiments described in this
    application may be separated from the remaining features of the corresponding aspect

                                                    4
     and/or embodiment and combined with separated features of one or more aspects and/or
     embodiments to create new aspects and/or embodiments.              In this regard, the aspects
     described herein may be used in the context of a work station of a medical dose
     management system as described above. In particular, the workstation may be adapted and
  5  suitable for the use in a system for medical dose preparation management. One aspect may
     relate to the use of a workstation for medical dose preparation management.            Another
    aspect may relate to a medical dose management system and the workstation may be a
    component of the medical dose management system.
              Accordingly, the work station may generally include an imaging device (e.g., digital
 10 camera) supported relative to a medication preparation staging region. The medical dose
    preparation staging region may be at least partially defined by a base having a length and a
    width. That is, the base may include a surface for supporting an object such as a medication
    receptacle used in the preparation of a medical dose order at the work station. The imaging
    device may have an imaging field encompassing at least a portion of the medication
15  preparation staging region. The imaging device may be operable to capture digital image
    data (e.g., still digital images and/or video data stream) of the medical dose preparation
    staging region (e.g., including medication receptacles used in the medical dose order or
    prepared by the work station).
             In this respect, one aspect may include an imaging device that is located at least
20  partially within a housing.      In turn, the imaging field of the imaging device may extend
    through an opening of the housing. Additionally, a transparent shield may be disposed
    between the imaging device and the medication preparation staging region. In particular, the
    transparent shield may cover at least a portion of the imaging device (e.g., corresponding to
    at least a lens of the imaging device). The transparent shield may extend across at least a
25  portion of or substantially all of the opening through which the imaging field of the imaging
    device extends.
             In the latter regard, the transparent shield and the housing may define an enclosed
    volume. As such, the transparent shield and the housing may define a continuous outer
    surface disposed about the enclosed volume. Thus, the Imaging device may be disposed
30  within the enclosed volume.        As a result, the imaging device may be shielded from an
    environment external to the enclosed volume (e.g., the camera may be isolated from spills or
    other potential contact with liquids or hazardous substances such as may occur during dose
    preparation or during the cleaning of the work station).
             In another aspect, an imaging device may be provided having at least one fixed
35  optical setting. In an embodiment, the fixed optical setting may be preset (e.g., during the
    manufacture of the work station). The fixed optical setting may result in a depth of field that

                                                      5
     encompasses substantially the entire medical dose preparation staging region (e.g., such
     that an image of an object in the medical dose preparation staging region is disposed within
     the depth of field).      In various embodiments, the at least one fixed optical setting may
     correspond to at least one of an aperture setting, a focus setting, a magnification setting,
  5  and/or other appropriate optical setting.
              In another aspect, at least one light source (e.g., one or more LEDs) may be
    disposed in the housing. As such, the light sources) may be operable to emit light from the
     housing in a direction toward the medication preparation staging region. As such, the light
    source may also be disposed in the enclosed volume such that the light source is also
 10 shielded from an environment external to the enclosed volume.
              In still another aspect, light polarization filters may be employed in conjunction with a
    light source and an imaging device of the work station (e.g., to reduce glare in a medical
    dose preparation image captured by the imaging device). For example, the work station
    may include a first polarization filter disposed between the imaging device and the
15  medication preparation staging region and a second polarization filter disposed between the
    light source and the medication preparation staging region.            In an application, at least a
    portion of a transparent shield (e.g., as discussed above) may comprise at least one of the
    first or second polarization filters. In an embodiment the transparent shield may comprise
    both, the first and the second polarization filters. In an embodiment, the first polarization
20  filter and the second polarization filter may collectively cover at least a portion of the opening
    of the housing. The first polarization filter and the second polarization filter may be disposed
    in non-overlapping relation, and the first polarization filter and the second polarization filter
    may have perpendicular polarization orientations. Accordingly, the polarization filters may
    work in conjunction to reduce glare from objects in the medication dose preparation staging
25  region.
             In an embodiment, the imaging device may be disposed in a central region of the
    housing opening and a peripheral region may extend about the central region. A plurality of
    light sources may be disposed in the peripheral region (e.g., spaced about the central
    region).    In this regard, the first polarization filter may cover a portion of the opening
30  corresponding to the lens of the camera and the second polarization filter may cover a
    portion of the opening corresponding to the light source(s).
             In an embodiment, the peripheral region may extend in at least a first direction
    corresponding to the width of the base. The peripheral region may also extend in at least a
    second direction corresponding to one of the length of the base or a height of the medical
35  dose preparation staging region extending from the base. For example, as described in
    greater detail below, the imaging device may be disposed in a plurality of positions relative to

                                                   6
     the medical dose preparation imaging device. Accordingly, depending upon the orientation
     of the imaging device, the peripheral region may extend in a direction corresponding to the
     length of the base and when in a second position, the peripheral region may extend in a
     direction corresponding to the height of the medical dose preparation staging region (e.g.,
  5  extending normal to the base).
              In this regard, a support member may extend between the base and the housing for
     supportably disposing the imaging device relative to the base (e.g., between a plurality of
     different positions of the imaging device relative to the base). That is, the support member
     may be selectively positionable in at least a first position and a second position relative to
 10  the medication preparation staging region of the base. The support member may be
     moveable between the first position and the second position. Additionally or alternatively,
     the support member may be selectively positionable in a plurality of different positions
     relative to the medication preparation staging region.
              In an embodiment, the support member may include a first portion attached to the
 15  base and a second portion attached to the imaging device. The second portion may be
     moveable relative to the first portion between the first position and the second position. For
     instance, the first portion may be hingedly connected to the second portion. Accordingly, the
    first portion and the second portion may be pivotally disposable between the first position
     and the second position. In an embodiment, movement between the first position and the
20   second position may be dampened.
             When the support member is in the first position, the imaging field of the imaging
    device may extend between the imaging device and the base to encompass at least a
     portion of the medical dose preparation staging region. When the support member is in a
    second position, the imaging field may extend in a direction parallel to a support surface of
25  the base to encompass at least a portion of the medical dose preparation staging region.
             In one embodiment, the support member may extend from the base adjacent to an
    edge of the base extending along the width. The work station may be disposed in a laminar
    flow hood or the like. Accordingly, a flow of air from the laminar flow hood may be parallel to
    a direction corresponding to the width of the base. That is, the support may be positioned
30  relative to the base so as not to obstruct the laminar flow of air across the base (e.g.,
    substantially the entire base may be exposed to laminar air flow).
             Furthermore, it is recognized that elimination and/or reduction of the number of wires,
    cables, and the like from the work station may be advantageous. For example, the reduction
    of wires and/or cables may provide fewer structures and surfaces that require cleaning.
35  Furthermore, in the case where a containment structure such as a laminar airflow hood,
    isolator, or biological safety cabinet is used, the routing of cables to an exterior environment

                                                 7
     of the containment structure may present difficulties in maintaining an appropriate
     containment level of the containment structure. As such, the reduction and/or elimination of
     wires, cables, and the like at the work station may improve the ability to clean the work
     station and may assist in maintaining a level of containment of a containment structure
  5  employed at the work station.
               In this regard, in an aspect, an umbilical may be provided that is at least partially
     disposed within a support member (e.g., to reduce the number of cables, wires, or the like in
     the work station). The umbilical may include at least one of a signal communication member
     and a power communication member. That is, the umbilical may consolidate a number of
 10  conductive members into a single cable to reduce the number of cables that need to be
     provided. The umbilical may be in operative communication with a processor.
              In another embodiment, wireless technology may be incorporated at the work station
     (e.g., to completely eliminate the need for wires and the like). That is, technology may be
     incorporated into the work station to wirelessly communicate signals between the various
15  components and the processor. For example, image data, lighting control data, scale
    information, or other communication between the devices of the work station and a
    processor may be facilitated by way of wireless communication. Additionally, a battery may
    be provided with the camera stand to facilitate wireless operation. For example, the battery
    may be replaceable or rechargeable to facilitate continued wireless operation.
20            In an application, the base of the work station may be supportably engageable with a
    surface with one or more suction cups. In this regard, the camera stand may be securely
    retained on a surface.         Furthermore, the suction cups may provide some measure of
    vibration isolation from an exterior environment.
              In another aspect, a support platform may be provided that is removably disposable
25  relative to the base. The removal of the support platform may facilitate cleaning of the
    support platform.       The support platform may at least partially define the medication
    preparation staging region. The support platform may be made of a UV resistant material to
    withstand discoloration or deterioration of the support platform.
              In an aspect, a support surface of the support platform may define a plurality of
30  medication receptacle engagement features- Accordingly, the support platform may include
    a reference plane corresponding to a surface of the support surface. In this regard, the
    support surface may include at least one groove defined in the support surface that may
    extend from the reference plane by a first depth. Additionally, the support surface may
    include at least one channel defined in the support surface that may extend from the
35  reference plane by a second depth.          The groove and the channel may be operable to

                                                   8
      engage a medication receptacle disposed in the medication preparation staging region. In
      an embodiment, the first depth may be less than the second depth.
               Also, in one implementation, the groove may include a first concave surface
     extending from the reference plane to the first depth. The channel may comprise a second
  5  concave surface extending from the reference plane to the second depth. The first concave
     surface may have a first radius of curvature greater than a second radius of curvature of the
     second concave surface. In an embodiment, the support surface may include a plurality of
     grooves and/or a plurality of channels. At least one of said plurality of grooves may be
     disposed perpendicular to at least one of the channels. Furthermore, at least one of the
 10  plurality of grooves may extend in a first direction of the base corresponding to a width of the
     support surface. For example, at least one groove may extend across substantially all of the
     support surface in a first direction corresponding to the width of the support surface. Also, at
     least one of the plurality of channels may extend in a second direction of the base
     corresponding to the length of the support surface. For example, at least one channel may
 15  extend across substantially all of the support surface in a second direction corresponding to
     a length of the support surface.
              Still another aspect may include a mechanism for alerting a user to the fact that a
     medical dose preparation image has been captured. .For example, a user control device
     (e.g., a foot switch) may be provided that is in operative communication with the processor to
20   initiate a capture of a medical dose preparation image from the image data obtained by the
     image device in response to a user input received at the user control device. In other words,
    the user control device may be operable to and/or adapted to receive a user input for
     receiving a user input to initiate capture of a medical dose preparation image from a video
    data stream output by the imaging device. Alternatively or additionally, other methods of
25  triggering capture of a medical dose preparation image may be provided without limitation.
     In any regard, upon capture of a medical dose preparation image, an intensity of a light
    source may be automatically modified from a default intensity of light emitted to a modified
    intensity of light. In other words the light source may be operable and/or adapted such that
    an intensity of the at least one light source is automatically modified from a default intensity
30  of light emitted to a modified intensity of light emitted. The change in light intensity may
    occur at a first predetermined period after the capture of the medical dose preparation
    image. Furthermore, the light source may be automatically returned from the modified
    intensity of light to the default intensity of light at a second predetermined period after the
    first predetermined period. In other words, the light source may operable to and/or adapted
35  to be automatically returned from the modified intensity of light to the default intensity of light
    at a second predetermined period after the first predetermined period. The light source may

                                                 9
     be automatically returnable from the modified intensity of light to the default intensity of light.
     In this regard, the light source may be controlled to "blink" or "flicker" to indicate to a user
     that the image has been captured so that the user may proceed in the workflow.
              In an embodiment, a scale may be provided that is in operative communication with
  5 the processor. The scale may be operable to output a weight corresponding to a medication
     receptacle that is supportably disposed in the medication preparation staging region. In this
     regard, the scale may be provided in corresponding relation to the base (e.g., disposed
    relative to the base and/or integrated with the base).
              For example, the scale may be generally used to perform a gravimetric analysis of an
 10 item disposed in the medical dose preparation staging region. For example, upon capture of
    a medical dose preparation image, the weight of the medication receptacle may be recorded
    by the processor from the scale at substantially the same time that the medical dose
    preparation image is captured. In other words, the processor may be operable to and/or
    adapted to - upon receipt of a user input - record the weight from the scale at substantially
 15 the same time that the medical dose preparation image is captured. In this regard, the work
    station may also include a memory in operative communication with the processor for storing
    the weight and the medical dose preparation image.           For example, the weight and the
    medical dose preparation image may be associatively stored in the memory. As such, the
    processor may be operable to compare the measured weight of the medication receptacle to
20  an anticipated weight of the medication receptacle (e.g., provided in metadata of the order).
    In this regard, the processor may be operable to calculate a deviation of the measured
    weight to the anticipated weight. The deviation may be associatively stored in the memory
    with the weight, the medical dose preparation image, and/or the dose order. Furthermore,
    the deviation may be compared to a threshold deviation value. Accordingly, when the
25  deviation exceeds a threshold deviation, an alert may be provided to a user. In this aspect,
    the base, the imaging device, and the scale may be interconnected for movement as a
    single unit. Moreover, the processor may be operable to and/or adapted to compare the
    deviation to the threshold deviation, and provide the alert to the user.
             Another aspect may relate to a method comprising the steps of outputting of a video
30  data stream of the imaging field, receiving the video data stream of the imaging field,
    initiating a capture of a medical dose preparation image from the video data stream in
    response to a user input received at a user control device, and outputting a weight
    corresponding to a medication receptacle that is supportably disposed in a medication
    preparation staging region. The method may further provide for upon receipt of the user
35  input, recording of the weight at substantially the same time as the capture of the medical
    dose preparation image.

                                                  10
              Numerous additional features and advantages of the present invention will become
     apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the embodiment descriptions
     provided hereinbelow.
  5
                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
              Fig. 1 is a schematic and flow chart depicting an embodiment of a medical dose
     preparation management system and an embodiment of the operation thereof.
             Fig. 2 is a schematic view of an embodiment of a work station for use in a medical
 10  dose preparation management system.
             Fig. 3 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a camera stand of a work station.
             Fig. 4 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a housing of the camera stand of
     Fig. 3.
             Fig. 5 is a cross-sectional view of the embodiment of the housing of the camera
 15  stand of Fig. 3 showing a camera and light sources disposed in an enclosed volume of the
     housing.
             Fig. 6 depicts an embodiment of a polarization filter during production of the
     polarization filter.
             Fig. 7 depicts the embodiment of the polarization filter of Fig. 6 in a finished and
20  aligned state.
             Fig. 8 is a perspective view of the embodiment of the camera stand of Fig. 3 with a
    support disposed in a second position.
             Fig. 9 is a plan view of the embodiment of the camera stand of Fig. 3 with the support
    disposed in the second position.
25           Figs. 10A and 10B depict an embodiment of a connection between a first portion and
    a second portion of a support in a first position and a second position, respectively.
             Fig. 11 is a perspective view of a base of the camera stand of Fig. 3 with a support
    platform in a removed position.
             Fig. 12 is a top view of an embodiment of a support surface of a work station.
30           Figs.13 and 14 are front and side views, respectively, of the support surface of
    Fig. 12.
             Fig. 15 is a perspective view illustrating an embodiment of an attachment of an
    imaging device to a support.

                                                      11
                                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION
              While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms,
     specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are
     herein described in detail. It should be understood, however, that it is not intended to limit
  5  the invention to the particular form disclosed, but rather, the invention is to cover all
     modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention as
     defined by the claims.
              Fig. 1 shows an embodiment of a system 10 that may be used at a care provider
     pharmacy 12 to assist in the preparation and/or management of medical doses. The system
 10  10 may include a dose order input 20 to receive medical dose orders. The dose order input
     20 may be utilized by care provider personnel (eg., physicians, nurses, etc.) to order
     medical doses.
             The medical dose orders received at the dose order input 20 may be specific to
     patients or may be orders that are not associated with a patient at the time of ordering. In
 15  this regard, the medical dose order may correspond to a contained medication unit that may
     comprise one of the following:
             *       a patient specific unit comprising a medication unit designated for
                     administration to a specific patient;
             *       a non-patient specific unit comprising a medication unit to be subsequently
20                   designated for administration to a specific patient; or,
             e       a medication component source unit to be used in the preparation of a patient
                     specific unit or a non-patient specific unit (e.g., that will be designated for
                     administration to a specific patient after preparation).
     Examples of contained medication units that may correspond to medication dose orders
25  include:
             *       compounded sterile products;
             e       injectable medications;
             *       chemotherapy preparations; or
             *       nutritional supplements requiring administration by a patient care provider
30                   (e.g., sterile injectable nutritional supplements).
             In the latter regard, nutritional supplements may include total parenteral nutrition
    (TPN) or components of TPN.             Furthermore, nutritional supplements may include partial
    nutritional supplements. The nutritional supplements may include a pre-mix bag, base and
    additive components separately or in combination, or other forms of nutritional supplements
35  or components thereof.           The nutritional supplements may be for administration via
    intravenous injections, in an edible form, or for use with a feeding tube or the like.

                                                  12
               In any regard, the medical dose may include one or more portions of information that
     may be used to assist in preparation of the mediation dose, may be associated with the
     administration of the dose order to a patient, or may otherwise relate to the dose order. For
     example, the dose order may include information corresponding to:
  5                   a medication identity;
              .       a medication amount;
              e       a medication concentration;
              e       information associated with a patient to whom the medication unit associated
                      with the medication dose order is to be administered;
 10           *       scheduling information (e.g., an administration time) for the medication unit
                      associated with medication dose order; or
              *       other appropriate information regarding the medication unit associated with
                      the medication dose order.
              In any regard, the medical dose orders may be communicated to a medical dose
 15  preparation management system 30. The medical dose preparation management system 30
     may be operable to acquire 50 dose order data from the dose order information received
    from the order processor 20. The medical dose preparation management system 30 may
    also preprocess 52 dose order data. The preprocessing 52 may include, for example,
    generating a digital dose order record that is maintained by the medical dose preparation
20  management system 30. The digital dose order record may be automatically populated with
    data that may be obtained from the order such as, for example, any of the information
    described above in connection with the medical dose order. In this regard, information may
    be parsed, scraped, or otherwise obtained from the medication dose order received at the
    order input 20. Specifically, in an embodiment, the medical dose preparation management
25  system 30 may be operable to scrape data addressed to a human readable output (e.g., a
    printer) from the order input 20 to populate the medical dose order record with data
    corresponding to the medical dose order.
             In an embodiment, the medical dose preparation management system 30 may be in
    operative communication with a mediation dose order database 32. In this regard, the
30  medication dose order database 32 may be located at the care provider facility (i.e., be on
    site relative to the care provider hospital 12). The medical dose preparation management
    system 30 may additionally or alternatively be operable to communicate with a remote
    medication dose order database 34. In this regard, the medical dose preparation
    management system 30 may communicate with the remote medication dose order database
35  34 via a network or the like. In either regard, the medication dose order database 32 or 34
    may be operable to store medication dose order records in the medication dose order

                                                    13
     database 32 and/or 34. In addition, the medication dose order database 32 or 34 may store
     dose order metadata in corresponding relation to respective ones of the stored medication
     dose orders. The medication dose order database 32 or 34 may store active dose orders
     (e.g., corresponding to dose orders that have been generated but not yet administered to the
  5  patient) or archived dose orders (e.g., corresponding to dose orders that have been
    administered to a patient), Redundant data may be stored at the on-site medical dose order
    database 32 and the off-site medical dose order database 34. For example, the off-site
    medical dose order database 34 may be a backup version of the on-site medical dose order
    database 32.
 10           In any regard, medical dose order metadata may be stored in corresponding relation
    to a medication dose order. The medical dose order metadata may include, for example, the
    following types of data:
              *       medication source data indicative of at least one of:
                       -       a manufacturer of a component of the contained medication unit
 15                            corresponding to the medication dose order,
                      -        a lot number of a component of the contained medication unit
                               corresponding to the medication dose order,
                      -        an expiration date of a component of the contained medication unit
                               corresponding to the medication dose order,
20                    -       a serial number of a component of the contained medication unit
                               corresponding to the medication dose order, or
                      -       a drug code indicative of the identity of a component of the contained
                               medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order;
             e       chain of custody data indicative of at least one of:
25                    -       a listing of entities in possession of a component of the contained
                              medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order or the
                              contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
                      -       a listing of users that have taken an action with respect to the
                              contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
30                            wherein the listing of users is correlated to specific actions taken by
                              each user, or
                      -       tracking information corresponding to physical movement of a
                              component of the contained medication unit corresponding to the
                              medication dose order or the contained medication unit corresponding
35                            to the medication dose order;
             *       fulfillment data indicative of at least one of:

                                  14
     -      image data corresponding with a component of the contained
            medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order or the
            contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
            scanned data obtained from a component of the contained medication
  5         unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
            analytic data regarding a component of the contained medication unit
            corresponding to the medication dose order or the contained
            medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
     -      pharmacist review data corresponding with at least one pharmacist
 10         review of a component of the contained medication unit corresponding
            to the medication dose order or the contained medication unit
            corresponding to the medication dose order,
    -       compliance data corresponding with best practices associated with a
            component of the contained medication unit corresponding to the
15          medication dose order or the contained medication unit corresponding
           to the medication dose order,
    -       sterility assessment data corresponding to a component of the
            contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order
           or the contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose
20         order,
    -      a listing of actions corresponding to a component of the contained
            medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order or the
           contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
    -      time stamp data corresponding to actions corresponding to a
25         component of the contained medication unit corresponding to the
           medication dose order or the contained medication unit corresponding
           to the medication dose order,
    -      a listing of life cycle events taken with respect a component of the
           contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order
30         or the contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose
           order
    -      weight data corresponding to a measured and/or anticipated weight of
           a component of the contained medication unit corresponding to the
           medication dose order or the contained medication unit corresponding
35         to the medication dose order; or
    environmental data indicative of at least one of:

                                                15
                            a temperature to which a component of the contained medication unit
                            corresponding to the medication dose order or the contained
                            medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order has been
                            exposed,
  5                         a temperature to which and corresponding time period for which a
                            component of the contained medication unit corresponding to the
                            medication dose order or the contained medication unit corresponding
                            to the medication dose order has been exposed,
                            whether a component of the contained medication unit corresponding
 10                         to the medication dose order or the contained medication unit
                            corresponding to the medication dose order is refrigerated,
                    -       whether a component of the contained medication unit corresponding
                            to the medication dose order or the contained medication unit
                            corresponding to the medication dose order is frozen,
 15                 -       a temperature profile experienced by a component of the contained
                            medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order or the
                            contained medication unit corresponding to the medication dose order,
                            or
                    -       accelerometer data corresponding to forces experienced by a
20                          component of the contained medication unit corresponding to the
                            medication dose order or the contained medication unit corresponding
                           to the medication dose order.
            As may be appreciated from the foregoing description of the medical dose order
    metadata, a medical dose order may inherit metadata from components used in the
25  preparation of the medical dose order.      In a simple example, a medical dose order may
    include a first component (e.g., a drug) to be mixed with a second component (e.g., a
    diluent). The first component may have one or more portions of metadata as described
    above that are associated with the first component. Additionally, the second component
    may have one or more portions of metadata as described above that are associated with the
30  second component. Thus, a medical dose order that is prepared using the first component
    and the second component may inherit the metadata from each of the first component and
    second component. In this regard, a plurality of generations of metadata may be compiled
    and attributed for a given medical dose order. In an embodiment, metadata for any and all
    components used to prepare the dose order may be compiled and attributed for a given
35  medical dose order. As such, metadata information for the medical dose order may include

                                                 16
     metadata originating with source components provided by a manufacturer of the
     components of a dose order.
              The medical dose preparation management system 30 may also be operative to
     organize 54 dose orders. The organization 54 may include prioritization, scheduling, or
  5  other tasks associated with the organization or management of dose orders. The medical
    dose preparation management system 30 may also be operative to route 56 dose orders to
    an appropriate work station 40 for use in fulfillment of the dose order. In this regard, a
     plurality of work stations 40 may be provided in communication with the medical dose
     preparation management system 30. Different ones of the plurality of work stations 40 may
 10 each be suited for different operations related to medical dose order management. As such,
    depending on the nature of a medical dose, a particular type of work station 40 may be used
    to prepare the dose. The work station 40 may be on-site relative to the care provider
    hospital 12 as depicted in Fig. 1 or may be off-site. In this regard, the routing 56 may include
    communications over a network to a remote work station 40. Furthermore, the system 10
 15 may include a combination of on-site work stations 40 as well as off-site work stations 40 to
    which dose orders may be routed 56.
              In any regard, the medical dose preparation management system 30 may be in
    operative communication with one or more work stations 40. The routing 56 of dose orders
    may be at least partially based on one or more factors related to the dose order or the
20  preparation of the dose order. For example, as stated above, the nature of the contained
    medication unit corresponding to the dose order (e.g., whether a dose order is a
    chemotherapy dose order, a parenteral dose order, or other specialized dose order) may
    factor into a determination regarding the routing 56 of the dose order.           Additionally or
    alternatively, the capabilities of the various work stations 40 in relation to the manner in
25  which the dose order is to be prepared may be considered. For example, some orders may
    require different levels of containment, hooding, or other precautions that may or may not be
    provided at each work station 40. In an embodiment, other parameters such as technician
    schedules, work station schedules, work station location, medication dose order scheduling
    information, or other information may be used alone or in combination to route 56 dose
30  orders to a particular work station 40.
             At the work station 40, a work flow corresponding to the preparation of the medical
    dose order may be displayed 58. In this regard, a work flow that is specific to the medical
    dose order currently being prepared at the work station 40 may be presented to a technician
    at the work station 40 to assist or provide guidance to the technician preparing the dose
35  order. Accordingly, the technician may follow a sequence of steps to prepare the medical
    dose based on the work flow displayed 68 that relates to the dose order.

                                                 17
             During and/or after the preparation of the dose order, the work station 40 may be
     used to assist in obtaining 60 dose order metadata related to the medical dose order. For
     example, the work station 40 may allow for recording of documentation regarding the
     preparation of the medical dose such as, for example, acquiring barcode scans of products,
  5  capturing medical dose preparation images of medical dose order receptacles during or after
     use in the preparation of the dose, or obtaining other information related to the preparation of
     the dose. In an embodiment, one or more of the types of data described above in relation to
     the medication dose metadata may be acquired in connection with the preparation of the
     medical dose order at the work station 40.
 10          At least a portion of the dose metadata obtained 60 regarding the medication dose
     may be stored for viewing by appropriate personnel (e.g, a pharmacist). In this regard, the
    dose metadata may be utilized to verify 62 the prepared dose prior to the dose being
    dispensed from the pharmacy 12. In an embodiment, the metadata collected at the work
    station 40 may be made available to a pharmacist via a network. In this regard, a
 15 pharmacist tasked with verifying 62 a dose order may access the information and/or data
    remotely (e.g., in a location in the hospital but outside the IV room or even entirely remove
    from hospital premises via the network). The ability to remotely access the metadata may
    allow the pharmacist to avoid having to enter the IV room to verify 62 a dose order (i.e., thus
    avoid the potentially burdensome gowning procedures commonly associated with entering
20  the controlled environment of an IV room).        The verifying 62 may include inspection of
    medical dose preparation images, obtained information, or other data regarding the medical
    dose order by the pharmacist.         For example, the pharmacist may verify the correct
    medication was prepared in the correct manner and/or in the correct amounts based on
    metadata gathered and stored during the preparation of the medical dose order. If the
25  medication dose order is incorrect in any regard, the pharmacist may request the medication
    dose order be reworked or restarted.
            Once the dose order has been prepared and verified 62, the medical dose
    preparation management system 30 may dispense 64 the dose order. When dispensing 64
    the dose order, the dose order may be dispatched from the pharmacy 12 for administration
30  to a patient by the care provider. For example, the dose may be administered at the care
    provider hospital 12 or an offsite location under the direction or supervision of the care
    provider.
            The medical dose preparation management system 30 may also facilitate tracking 66
    of the dose order to administration to the patient, The pharmacy work flow manager 30 may
35  also retain records associated with each dose that may be stored or archived. For example,

                                                   18
     the records may be stored digitally in electronically indexed and searchable form. The
     records may include at least a portion and preferably all metadata regarding each dose.
              With further reference to Fig. 2, a schematic view depicting an embodiment of a work
     station 40 is shown. The work station 40 may include a processor 70 in operative
  5  communication with an imaging device 80. The imaging device 80 may be a digital camera
     operable to output digital image data. The digital image data may comprise still images
     and/or digital video. In this regard, the imaging device 80 may output a video data stream 82
     that is received by the processor 70. In this regard, the processor 70 may include a video
     data stream processing module 72 for processing the video data stream 82 received at the
 10  processor 70 from imaging device 80. While the various components shown in Fig. 2 are
     shown in direct communication, the various components may also be in operative
     communication by way of a network interface or the like.
             The imaging device 80 may include an imaging field 84. The imaging field 84 may
     encompass a medical dose preparation staging region 86. The imaging device 80 may be
 15  supportably mounted to a base 90. For example, a support 92 may extend from the base 90
    to the imaging device 80 to support imaging device 80 relative to the base 80. In this regard,
     in an embodiment the medical dose preparation staging region 86 may include a support
    surface 94 of the base 90. The medical dose preparation staging region 86 may also include
    a volume above the surface 94 (e.g., extending from the surface in a direction normal to the
20  surface and/or toward the imaging device 80). In any regard, the imaging field 84 of the
    imaging device 80 may encompass the medical dose preparation staging region 86 that may
    supportably receive a medication receptacle 100. In turn, the imaging device 80, support 92,
    and base 90 may collectively define a camera stand 200. As such, the camera stand 200
    may be used at a work station 40 to support the imaging device 80 relative to the base 90 to
25  obtain medical dose preparation image and/or other metadata during the preparation of the
    medical dose order.
             The medication receptacle 100 supportable by the base 90 in the medical dose
    preparation staging region 86 may include any material, container, apparatus, or other object
    that is used in the preparation of a dose. For example, the medication receptacle 100 may
30  be or include a source receptacle, a transference receptacle, or an administration
    receptacle. A source receptacle may store a medication product as stored in the pharmacy
    prior to compounding or dose preparation. In this regard, the source receptacle may be a
    receptacle as packaged by and received from a drug manufacturer. As such, the source
    receptacle may include information thereon relating to the medication. For example, the
35  product name, concentration, amount, lot information, expiration information, a serial
    number, other manufacturing information or other information may be associated with the

                                                 19
     medication and/or may appear on the source receptacle. The medical dose preparation
     management system 30 may be operable to store metadata regarding the source receptacle
     including any of the foregoing portions of data that may appear on the source receptacle. In
     this regard, the source receptacle may be identifiable by the work station 40 (e.g., via the
  5  use of a machine readable indicium such as a bar code or the like).
              Furthermore, the medical dose preparation management system 30 may be operable
     to attribute metadata from the source receptacle to the dose order in which the source
     receptacle is used as described above. The source receptacle metadata may even be
     attributed to or appended to the metadata for the medical dose order when the source
 10  receptacle comprises a pre-prepared medication that has been compounded at the
     pharmacy and disposed in the source receptacle for later use in the preparation of a dose.
     In this regard, the metadata for several generations of components used to prepare a
     medical dose order (e.g., originating from original source components received from a
     manufacturer such as a drug manufacturer) may be attributed to the medical dose order. As
 15 such, the medical dose order metadata may include information regarding all components
     used in the medical dose order including inherited metadata. The metadata for the various
    components may be retrieved upon identification of the receptacle 100 at the work station 40
    (e.g., by way of scanning a machine readable indicium).          In various embodiments, the
    source receptacle may include a vial, a syringe, a bottle, a bag, or other appropriate
20  medication receptacle known in the art.
             An administration receptacle may be any receptacle used during the administration of
    the medical dose to the patient. The administration receptacle may contain any medication,
    diluent, supplement, or any other material to be administered to the patient. In various
    embodiments, the administration receptacle may include a syringe, an IV bag, or other
25  appropriate medication receptacle used in the administration of a substance to patient. An
    administration receptacle may also include metadata that is included in the metadata for the
    prepared medical dose order.
             The transference receptacle may be used to transfer a substance from a source
    receptacle to the administration receptacle. For example, the transference receptacle may
30  be a syringe or any other appropriate receptacle known in the art capable of transferring a
    substance from the source receptacle to the administration receptacle. A transference
    receptacle may also include metadata that is included in the metadata for the prepared
    medical dose order.
             Returning to Fig. 2, the processor 70 may be in further operative communication with
35  a display 110. In this regard, the video data stream 82 received from the imaging device 80
    may be displayed on the display 110 in a manner that is perceivable by user. The video

                                                  20
     data stream 82 displayed on the display 110 may be processed by way of the video data
     stream processing module 72. For example, the video data stream processing module 72
     may be operable to capture still images from the video data stream 82. The video data
     stream 82 may include a series of images displayed at a given frame rate. For example, the
  5  frame rate may be 5-10 frames/second.
             Medical dose preparation images captured by the video data stream processing
     module 72 may include one or more medication receptacles 100 used in the course of
     preparing a medical dose order. In this regard, the preparation of medical dose orders may
     be documented by capturing images of the medication receptacles 100 used to prepare the
 10  dose. The medical dose preparation images may be stored as metadata regarding the
     medical dose order. A medical dose preparation image may include one or more medication
     receptacles at various stages during the preparation of the dose. For example, a source
     receptacle, a transference receptacle, or an administration receptacle may be imaged
     before, during or after preparation of the dose.
15           The medical dose preparation images captured by the video data stream processing
     module 72 may be stored in a memory 120 in operative communication with the processor
    70. In this regard, the medical dose preparation images may be stored locally in the memory
     120 at the work station 40.       Additionally or alternatively, the medical dose preparation
    images may be communicated to a remote location (e.g., an on-site medication dose order
20  database 32 or an off-site medication dose order database 34 shown in Fig. 1) by way of a
    network interface 140 in operative communication with the processor 70. In any regard,
    medical dose preparation images may be accessible such that images may be later
    reviewed in the course of verifying (e.g., the verifying 62 described above in relation to Fig.
     1) the medical dose order and/or for maintaining records regarding the dose orders prepared
25  by the work station 40 and/or the hospital pharmacy 12 generally.
             The processor 70 may also be in operative communication with a user control device
    130. The user control device 130 may be operable to receive an input from a user (e.g., a
    pharmacy technician preparing a dose). The user control device 130 may be, for example, a
    foot pedal, a button, a touch screen, a mouse, a keyboard, or other user input device known
30  in the art. A user may utilize the user control device 130 to trigger the capture of a medical
    dose preparation image from the video data stream 82.               For example, a medication
    receptacle 100 may be viewed by the user by observing the display 110 displaying the video
    data stream 82 captured by the imaging device 80 of imaging field 86 including the
    medication receptacle 100. Once the image displayed on the display 110 is acceptable to
35  the user, the user may use the user control device 130 to trigger the capture of the medical

                                                 21
     dose preparation image for storage in the memory 120 or in a remote database as described
     above.
              The work station 40 may also include a printer 150 that is operative to print dose
     labels associated with a medical product, a dose that is in progress, and/or a completed
  5  dose. In this regard, the printer 150 may be a label printer operative to print labels used in
     the pharmacy 12 and/or hospital in connection with metal doses and/or medical dose orders.
             With further reference to Fig. 3, an embodiment of a camera stand 200 is depicted.
     As described above, the camera stand 200 may include an imaging device 80, a support 92,
     and a base 90. With respect to the imaging device 80, an imaging device housing 210 may
 10  contain a camera 212 (as shown in Fig. 5). With additional reference to Figs. 4 and 5, the
     housing 210 may define an opening 214. The opening 214 may be disposed relative to the
     housing 210 such that the camera 212 may be directed through the opening 214 toward the
     medical dose preparation staging region 86. A transparent shield 216 may be disposed
    within the opening 214. For example, the transparent shield 216 may be secured to the
 15  housing 210.
             The transparent shield 216 may extend across at least a portion of the opening 214
    (e.g., in corresponding relation to the lens 226). In an embodiment, the transparent shield
    216 may extend across substantially the entire opening 214. In this regard, the housing 210
    and the transparent shield 216 may collectively define an enclosed volume 218 (best seen in
20  Fig. 5) in which the camera 212 may be disposed. In this regard, the transparent shield 216
    and housing 210 may also define a continuous outer surface 220 that extends about the
    enclosed volume 218. Accordingly, the continuous outer surface 220 may allow for easy
    cleaning of the housing 210 and the transparent shield 216. For example, the continuous
    outer surface 220 may be wipeable by an operator to facilitate cleaning. As the continuous
25  outer surface 220 may be resistant to fluids penetrating the enclosed volume 218, the
    components disposed within the enclosed volume 218 may remain dry when the outer
    surface 220 is exposed to fluids (e.g., cleaning products). Further aspects of the camera
    stand 200 discussed below may also assist in the cleaning of a work station 40.
             Also disposed within the enclosed volume 218 may be a light source board 228. The
30  light source board 228 may include one or more light sources 230 connected to the light
    source board 228.      The light sources 230 may comprise individual light emitting diodes
    (LED). The light sources 230 may be attached to the light source board 228 such that power
    and/or control signals used in the operation of the light sources 230 are provided to the light
    sources 230 by way of the light source board 228. In this regard, the light source board 228
35  may provide a physical mounting substrate for supportably engaging the light sources 230
    as well as providing electrical communication between the light sources 230 and the light

                                                   22
      source board 228. In this regard, the light source board 228 may be a printed circuit board
      (PCB) including attachment locations and appropriate electrical communication paths (e.g.,
      conductive traces) to facilitate attachment and electrical communication between the light
      sources 230 and the light source board 228.
  5            The light source board 228 may include an aperture 232. A lens 226 of the camera
      212 may be aligned with the aperture 232 such that an imaging field 84 of the camera 212
      defined by the lens 226 extends through the aperture 232. The aperture 232 may also be
     aligned with a central region of the opening 214 of the housing 210. As such, a peripheral
      region extending about the central region of the opening 214 may be occupied by the light
 10  source board 228, and thus the light sources 230. In this regard, the light sources 230 may
     be provided peripherally about the aperture 232 of the light source board 228, and thus the
     lens 226 of the camera 212. The light sources 230 may emit light through the opening 214.
     As such, the light emitted from the light sources 230 may at least partially coincide with the
     imaging field 84 of the camera 212. In this regard, the distribution of the light sources 230 as
 15  shown in Fig. 4 where the light sources 230 are distributed through the peripheral region of
     the opening 214 about the lens 226 and aperture 232 may facilitate the relatively uniform
     distribution of light from the light sources 230.
              With further reference to Fig. 5, the camera 212 may be contained in the enclosed
     volume 218 defined by the housing 210 and the transparent shield 216.
20            As can further be appreciated in Fig. 5, one or more polarization filters 222 and 224
     may be provided. As depicted, a peripheral polarization filter 222 and a central polarization
     filter 224 may be provided. At least a portion of the peripheral polarization filter 222 and at
     least a portion of the central polarization filter 224 may be disposed in non-overlapping
     relation.    For example, the peripheral polarization filter 222 may be disposed in the
25   peripheral region of the opening 214 in corresponding relation to the light source board 228
     and the light sources 230. The central polarization filter 224 may be disposed in the central
     region of the opening 214 in corresponding relation to the lens 226 of the camera 212.
              In this regard, the peripheral polarization filter 222 and the central polarization filter
    224 may be disposed such that the direction of polarization of the filters are oriented
30   perpendicularly to each other.
              Accordingly, as light is emitted from the light sources 230, the emitted light may pass
    through the peripheral polarization filter 222 and, thus, be polarized according to the first
    direction of polarization associated with the peripheral polarization filter 222. The light may
    then travel toward the medical dose preparation staging region 86, which may become
35  illuminated by the emitted light polarized in the first direction. The emitted light originating
    from the light sources 230 may be reflected from the medical dose preparation staging

                                                     23
      region 86. In turn, the emitted light may then pass through the central polarization filter 224,
     where the reflected light is then polarized in a second direction of polarization by the central
     polarization filter 224 that is perpendicular to the first direction of polarization associated with
     the polarization filter 222.      In this regard, light emitted from the housing 210 may be
  5  polarized in the first direction of polarization by the peripheral polarization filter 222, be
     reflected back from the medical dose preparation region 86 such that the polarization of at
     least some of the light is changed, and be polarized in the second direction of polarization by
     the central polarization filter 224. The result may be reduced glare on objects placed in the
     medical dose preparation staging region 86. For example, especially in the case of shiny
 10  materials such as glass, light that impinges on an object in the medical dose preparation
     staging region 86 normal to the surface may not undergo a change in polarization. Thus, the
     light incident normal to the object that may result in glare does not change in polarization
     from the first direction.       The introduction of the central polarization filter 224 with a
     polarization in the second direction may fully block the reflected light that is still in the first
 15  polarization direction because the light was reflected normal to the surface, thus reducing
     the glare the light in the first polarization direction may otherwise produce.
             To achieve the foregoing relative orientations of the polarization of the peripheral
     polarization filter 222 and the central polarization filter 224, the respective filters may be
     manufactured from a unitary sheet of polarized material. With respect to Fig. 6, the central
20  polarization filter 224 may be cut from a unitary sheet of polarizing material 246 with a single
    polarization orientation.      The central polarization filter 224 may include wings 248a and
    248b, each having a mounting hole 250a and 250b, respectively. With further reference to
    Fig. 7, once the central polarization filter 224 has been separated from the unitary sheet of
    polarizing material 246, it may be rotated 90" relative to the remainder of the unitary sheet of
25  polarizing material 246 now comprising the peripheral polarization filter 222. In this regard,
    the polarization directions of the central polarization filter 224 may be perpendicular to the
    peripheral polarization filter. Furthermore, the separation of the central polarization filter 224
    from the peripheral polarization filter 222 may provide the non-overlapping relation between
    the central polarization filter 224 and peripheral polarization filter 222 (e.g., with the
30  exception of the wings 248a and 248b of the central polarization filter 224).                In other
    embodiments, completely separate portions may be provided that define the central
    polarization filter 224 and the peripheral polarization filter 222. As such, the polarization
    directions of the separate portions may be tested and aligned appropriately to achieve
    perpendicular relative orientations of the polarization directions.
35           Additionally or alternatively, other optical filters may be provided other than the
    polarization filters described above. For example, a diffusion filter may be provided that may

                                                  24
    provide more uniform light distribution at the medical dose preparation staging region 86.
   Other optical filters such as high pass, low pass, band pass, or any other appropriate optical
   filters may be employed to selectively control the emission of light from the light source.
   Additionally, light sources that emit certain wave length light may also be employed. Further
 5 still, light sources may be employed that are operable to controllably emit different wave
   length light (e.g., the color of the light may be controlled).
             It may be appreciated in Fig. 5 that the camera 212 is contained in the enclosed
   volume 218. In this regard, access to the camera 212 may be limited. Accordingly, optical
   settings associated with the camera 212 may not be modifiable by a user by manipulation of
10 the camera 212 directly. It has been found that often in an effort to improve image quality,
   an operator may adjust the optical settings of a camera 212. However, the resulting
   adjustments may ultimately degrade the quality of images resulting in sub-optimal focus
   and/or aperture settings for a variety of images to be captured using the camera 212.
             Accordingly, in an embodiment, the camera 212 includes at least one fixed optical
15 setting. For example, one or more optical settings may be fixed such that a depth of field of
   the camera 212 as defined by the lens 226 encompasses at least a portion of the medical
   dose preparation staging region 86. In an embodiment, at least a majority of the medical
   dose preparation staging region 86 is encompassed by a depth of field of the camera 212.
   In an embodiment, substantially all of the medical dose preparation staging region 86 is
20 encompassed by a depth of field of the camera 212. The fixed optical settings of the camera
   212 may comprise a focus setting, an aperture setting, a magnification, or another optical
   setting affecting the depth of field of the camera 212.
             In another embodiment, the optical settings of the camera 212 may be adjustable
   (e.g, by a user). For example, a focal length, magnification, or other optical parameter of
25 the camera 212 may be adjusted. The adjustment of the optical settings may be manually
   accomplished by a user manipulating a portion of the camera 212. In an application, an
   electronic signal may be provided to the camera 212 in order to adjust the optical settings
   thereof.     In an embodiment, camera 212 may be continuously adjustable through a
   continuum of settings associated with one or more optical parameters.                In another
30 embodiment, a plurality of discrete optical parameters may be selectable. For example, the
   optical parameters the camera 212 may be selected from among at least two different optical
   parameter settings.       For example, a corresponding optical parameter setting may be
   selected based on a selected position of the camera 212 relative to the base 90. In this
   regard, the camera 212 may be disposed at different distances relative to the base for
35 different positions of the support 92 and/or for different configurations of the camera stand
   200. In this regard, for the various different configurations available, discrete optical setting

                                                 25
   may be provided for each position of the imaging device 80 relative to the base 90 such that
   the optical parameters associated with the camera 212 results in a clear image of the
   medication receptacle 100 being imaged by the camera 212.
            In an embodiment, the light sources 230 may be used to indicate when a medical
 5 dose preparation image has been captured. That is, as described above, a user control
   device 130 may be used to initiate the capture of a medical dose preparation image from a
   video data stream 82. In a first predetermined period after the capture of the medical dose
   preparation image, the intensity of at least one of the light sources 230 may be changed.
   The change in intensity may indicate to the user that the image has successfully been
10 captured. In this regard, the light intensity of the light source 230 may change from a default
   level to a modified intensity (e.g., either more or less intense). The light source 230 may
   then return to the default intensity after a second predetermined period of time.        In this
   regard, the light source 230 may "blink" or "flicker" or momentarily change from the default
   intensity to a modified intensity and then return to the default intensity). The variation in
15 intensity may be readily perceived by a user to indicate the image has been captured and
   that the medical dose preparation staging region 86 may be cleared and, for example,
   prepared for the next image.
            Returning to Fig. 3, the housing imaging device 80 may be supportably engaged by a
   support 92. The support 92 may allow for selectively positioning the support 92 in at least a
20 first position and a second position relative to the medication preparation staging region 86.
   For example, the support 92 may be selectively positionable between the orientation shown
   in Fig. 3 (referred to herein as a first position) and that shown in Figs. 8 and 9 (referred to
   herein as a second position).
            In this regard, the support arm 92 may include a first portion 234 and a second
25 portion 236. The first portion 234 may be supportably engaged with the housing 210 and the
   second portion 236 may be supportably engaged with the base 90. The first portion 234
   may be positionably attached to the second portion 236 at a connection 238. For example,
   the first portion 234 may be moveably attached to the second portion 236 such that the first
   portion 234 may undergo relative movement with respect to the second portion 236 to move
30 between the first position depicted in Fig. 3 and the second position depicted in Fig. 10. In
   this regard, the connection 238 may comprise a hinge to provide pivotal movement between
   the first portion 234 and the second portion 236 between the first position and the second
   position.
            The movement of the first portion 234 relative to the second portion 236 may be
35 dampened and/or dampenable. In this regard, connection 238 may include a dampener that
   dampens movement of the first portion 234 relative to the second portion 236.           In one

                                                  26
   embodiment, the dampener may comprise coordinating elliptical profiles provided on each of
   the first portion 234 and the second portion 236 at the connection 238. The elliptical profiles
    may be provided as coordinating surfaces of the first portion 234 and the second portion
   236.    Other shaped profiles may be provided other than elliptical profiles such as, for
 5 example, a non-uniform contoured shape (e.g., profile defining one or more cam lobes).
            One embodiment illustrating the use of coordinating elliptical surfaces to achieve
   dampened movement between the first portion 234 and the second portion 236 is shown in
    Figs. 10A and 10B. For example, a first elliptical surface 240 may be provided on the first
   portion 234 and a second elliptical surface 242 may be provided on the second portion 236.
10 The elliptical surfaces 240 and 242 may be concentrically disposed and separated by a
   resilient material 244 (e.g., a resilient o-ring or the like). Upon pivotal movement of the first
   portion 234 relative to the second portion 236, the elliptical surfaces 240 and 242 may
   converge, resulting in compression of the resilient material 244, thus dampening movement
   between the first portion 234 and the second portion 236. Also, coordinating detent features
15 252 may be provided for registration of the first portion 234 relative to the second portion 236
   at the first position 234 and the second position 236. The damping may be non-uniform
   through the movement of the first portion 234 and the second portion 236. For example, the
   damping force acting in response to movement between the first portion 234 and the second
   portion 236 may be less as the first portion 234 and the second portion 236 move toward the
20 first position (shown in Fig. 3). Thus, the positioning of the first portion 234 relative to the
   second portion 236 may be more precise given the damping force is less near this point than
   at other points of travel between the first portion 234 and the second portion 236.
           As may be appreciated in Figs. 3 and 8-9, the first position (shown in Fig. 3) of the
   support 92 may dispose the imaging device 80 such that the imaging field 84 of the imaging
25 device 80 is oriented in a manner such that the medication preparation staging region 86 is
   disposed between the imaging device 80 and the base 90. That is, the camera 212 may be
   directed at the base 90 such that the medication preparation staging region 86 defined by
   the base is between the camera 212 and the base 90 and in the imaging field 84 of the
   camera 212. In this regard, a medical dose preparation image captured by the camera 212
30 may include an image whose dimensions correspond to a length and width of the medication
   preparation staging region 86.
            In the second position (shown in Fig. 10) the imaging device 80 may be oriented with
   respect to the base 90 such that the imaging field 84 of the imaging device 80 extends
   parallel to a plane defined by a support surface 262 of the base 90 that is described in
35 greater detail below. That is, the camera 212 may be directed perpendicularly to the base
   90 such that the imaging field 84 extends in a direction parallel to the support surface of the

                                                     27
     base to encompass at least a portion of the medical dose preparation staging region
     extending normal to the base 90.
              The support 92 may also contain at least a portion of an umbilical 268 that may be
     operable to establish communication between the components disposed in the enclosed
  5  volume 218 (e.g., the camera 212, the light source board 228, light sources 230, etc.). In
     this regard, the umbilical 268 may establish electrical communication paths between the
     components in the enclosed volume 218 and the processor 70. In some embodiments, the
     umbilical 268 may include one or more bundled or consolidated cables, one or more
     conductive traces, a plurality of wires, or other appropriate conductors to establish electrical
 10  communication between the components in the enclosed volume 218 and the processor 70.
     As shown in Fig. 3, the umbilical 268 may extend from the camera 212 and/or the light
     source board 228 and pass into a passage 270 defined in first portion 234. The passage
     270 may extend from the first portion 234 to the second portion 236. In this regard, the
     connector 238 may facilitate passage of the umbilical 268 therethrough. For example, the
15   umbilical 268 may pass through the second portion 236 and emerge therefrom.                  The
     umbilical 268 may include a connector at an end opposite that in communication with the
     components in the enclosed volume 218 that may be used to establish electrical
     communication with the processor 70. For example, the connector may be a proprietary or
    standard connector (e.g., a USS connector or the like).
20            It may be noted that the umbilical 268 may provide electrical communication paths for
    a plurality functions. For example, signal paths and/or power communication paths may be
     provided in the umbilical 268. In this regard, plurality of discrete electrical communication
    paths may be consolidated into a single cord extending from the camera support 200. In the
    context of a work station 40, the minimization of wires in the work area may provide
25  advantages, especially in the context of cleaning the workstation 40. That is, the fewer wires
    present in a work area (such as a laminar flow hood, isolator, or biological safety cabinet) the
    easier the work station 40 may be to clean.
              Furthermore, in the context of, for example, a biological safety cabinet, it may be
    appreciated that elimination of wires or cables extending from the camera stand altogether
30  may be particularly advantageous. For example, a biological safety cabinet may provide
    complete isolation from an external environment. In this regard, should a camera stand 200
    include a cord, the cord may be required to pass through the wall of the biological safety
    cabinet. However, a minimum level of containment must also be maintained, which may be
    difficult or costly to achieve while facilitating passage of the cord through the cabinet wall. In
35  this regard, it is contemplated that the camera stand 200 may be completely wireless. For
    example, wireless technology may be incorporated to the camera stand 200 to facilitate

                                                   28
     communication of electronic signals between the camera stand 200 and the processor 70.
     Examples of such wireless technology include Wi-FL, Bluetooth, or other wireless vacation
     technologies. Furthermore, the camera stand 200 may be equipped with a battery to provide
     operational power to the camera stand 200. The battery may be removable, replaceable,
  5  and/or rechargeable to facilitate wireless operation of the camera stand 200. For example, a
     lithium-ion battery or other appropriate type of battery may be provided in the camera stand
     200. The battery and provided any portion of the camera stand 200 without limitation
     including for example, the base 90, the support 92, and/or the enclosed volume 218.
              With further reference to Fig. 15, a mechanism for attaching the camera 212 to the
 10 first portion 234 of the support 92 is shown. It may be appreciated that the camera 212 may
     be subject to an image tolerance associated with the alignment of the camera 212 to the
     base 90.      Misalignment between the camera 212 in the base 90 may result in image
    distortion such as keystoning or the like. in this regard, the image tolerance associated with
    the alignment between the camera 212 of the base 90 may be important to obtain quality
 15 medical dose preparation images using the camera 212.                  However, manufacturing
    considerations associated with providing connection tolerances between various pieces
    comprising the camera stand 200 may make it difficult to achieve the image tolerance to
    provide accurate camera alignment during manufacturing. That is, the camera 212 may
    include an imaging tolerance that is more restrictive than the connection tolerances provided
20  in the attachment of the camera 212 to the camera stand 200. For example, connection
    tolerances may be introduced, inter alia, at the interface between the base and second
    portion 236 of the support 92, the first portion 234 and the second portion 236, the
    attachment of a mounting plate 300 and the first portion 234, and the interface to the camera
    212 and associated mounting structure.           Furthermore, it may be appreciated that the
25  tolerances associated with each of these interfaces may present a tolerance stack up
    problem that may result in misalignment of the camera 212 with respect to the base 90.
             Accordingly, as depicted in Fig. 15, a mounting plate 300 may be secured by way of
    fasteners 302 to an attachment member 304. The attachment member 304 may be secured
    to the first portion 234 by way of fasteners 306. A mounting structure 310 may be secured to
30  the mounting plate 300. The camera 212 may be mounted to the mounting structure 310.
    The interface between the mounting structure 310 and the mounting plate 300 may define a
    gimbal 320. The gimbal 320 may allow for adjustable movement of the camera 212 in at
    least a first (and potentially two, three, or more) directions. The gimbal 320 may include one
    or more jack nuts 322 that may allow the mounting structure 310 to be adjustably positioned
35  relative to the mounting plate 300. For example, the jack nuts 322 may include coordinating
    nut pairs provided on a threaded stud 323 such that the attachment of the mounting

                                                 29
     structure 310 relative to the mounting plate 300 may be adjusted up and down along the
     threaded studs 323 (e.g., at three locations as shown in Fig. 15 to control movement of the
     camera 212 in at least two directions) Accordingly, the camera 212 may be adjusted or
     aimed by manipulating the jack nuts 322 to modify the orientation of the camera 212 once
  5  secured to the mounting structure 310.
             In this regard, it may be appreciated that once the attachment member 304 is
    secured to the first portion 234, the mounting plate 300 is secured to the attachment member
    304, the mounting structure 310 is secured to the mounting plate 300, and the camera 212
    secured to the mounting structure 310, the alignment of the camera 212 may be non
 10 perpendicular to the base 90 (i.e., the imaging tolerance may not be achieved). In this
    regard, the jack nuts 322 may be manipulated so as to align the camera 212 to be
    substantially perpendicular to the base 90 such that any image distortion such as keystoning
    may be eliminated from the resultant image obtained by camera 212. In other words, the
    imaging tolerance may be achieved via adjustment of the gimbal 320. As such, the amount
15  of adjustment provided by the gimbal 320 may at least correspond to the difference between
    the connection tolerance and the imaging tolerance associated with the alignment of the
    camera 212 to the base 90.
             It may be appreciated that the mounting plate 300 and/or mounting structure 310
    may be fabricated from sheet material.           In this regard, the manufacturer of these
20  components may be provided at significant lower cost than other manufacturing techniques
    that may be employed when tolerances are required to be relatively high. In this regard, the
    use of the gimbal 320 provide adjustability of the alignment of the camera 212 once secured
    to a mounting structure may allow for manufacturing techniques that are less costly to be
    employed when manufacturing the camera stand 200.
25          While not shown in Fig. 15, it may be appreciated that the housing 210 and/or
    transparent shield 216 may be secured to the mounting plate 300 and/or mounting member
    304. In this regard, the housing 210 and/or transparent shield 216 may be secured relative
    to the mounting plate 300 and/or mounting member 304 to define the enclosed area 218.
            With further reference to Fig. 12, the base 90 of the camera stand 200 may include a
30  platform base 254 and a support platform 256 that is removably disposable relative to the
    platform base 254. In this regard, the support platform 256 may be removed, for example, to
    undergo cleaning or the like. The platform base 254 may include one or more feet 258 that
    may engage a surface on which the platform base 254 is disposed.             For example, the
    platform-based 254 may include one or more suction cup bases 276 may be used to secure
35  the base 90 and in turn the camera stand 200 to the surface. The suction cup bases 276
    may provide secure attachment to the surface to provide stable operation of the camera

                                                  30
    stand 200. That is, suction cup bases 276 may at least partially isolate vibrations to improve
    the image obtained by the camera 212 when capturing a medical dose preparation image as
    described above. The support platform 256 may be constructed of a UV resistant material.
             The support platform 256 may have a length 272 and a width 274. In this regard,
  5 when the support platform 256 is disposed on the platform base 254, the length 272 and
    width 274 may define dimensions of the base 90. The length 272 and the width 274 may
    also correspond to a medical preparation staging region 86 at least partially defined by the
    support platform 256.
             Additionally, with reference to Fig. 4, it may be appreciated that the peripheral region
 10 of the opening 214 of the housing 210 may extend in a first direction corresponding to the
    length 274 of the support platform 90. The peripheral region may extend in the first direction
    corresponding to the length 274 of the base 90 both when the support 92 is in the first
    position shown in Fig. 3 and the second position shown in Figures 8-9. The peripheral
    region may extend in a second direction corresponding to the width 274 of the support
15  platform 256 when the support 92 is in the first position. When the support is in the second
    position (as best seen in Fig. 9), the peripheral region may extend in a direction
    corresponding to a height of the medical dose preparation region 86 extending normal to the
    support platform 256.
             The platform base 254 may include a scale such that an item disposed on the
20  support platform 256 when disposed on the platform base 254 may be weighed.                   For
    example, the weight measured by the scale may be captured substantially simultaneously as
    the capture of a medical dose preparation image by the imaging device 80. Accordingly, the
    weight obtained by the scale may be appended to the dose order metadata.                    In an
    embodiment, the processor 70 at the processor or a remote processor with access to the
25  metadata may perform a gravimetric analysis using a weight measured by the scale to, for
    example, compare the measured weight to an anticipated weight for the medical dose. The
    scale may comprise load cells disposed in the platform base 254 (e.g., at each foot 258 of
    the platform base 258 or adjacent to where the support platform 256 is supported.
             In this regard, the anticipated weight for the medical dose may be contained in the
30  metadata to assist in a gravimetric analysis of the medication receptacle 100. The processor
    70 at the work station 40 may associatively store the anticipated weight and the measured
    weight. Furthermore, the processor may be operable to compare the measured weigh to the
    anticipated weight. In an embodiment, a deviation of the actual weight from the anticipated
    weight may be calculated and if the deviation exceeds a threshold, an alarm may be
35  provided to the user.

                                                   31
              The support platform 256 may at least partially define the medication preparation
     staging region 86.      For example, the medication preparation staging region 86 may
     encompass a volume extending in a direction normal to a support surface 262 of the support
     platform 254. As such, a receptacle supportably engaged by the support platform 254 may
  5  be encompassed by the medication preparation staging region 86 such that the receptacle is
     disposed in the imaging field of the imaging device 80.
             The support platform 254 may also include one of more medication receptacle
     engagement feature that may engage a medical receptacle that is supportably disposed with
     respect to the support platform 254. For example, the medication receptacle engagement
 10 features may include at least one groove 264 and at least one channel 266. With further
     reference to Figs. 13-15, the features described comprising the support platform 254 may be
    further appreciated, The grooves 264 may extend from the support surface 262 a first depth.
    The channels 266 may extend from the support surface 262 a second depth. The first depth
     may be less than the second depth. That is, the grooves 264 may be shallower with respect
 15 to a depth extending from the support surface 262 than the channels 266. The engagement
    features described herein may extend across substantially all of the support platform 254,
    and in turn, the medication preparation staging region 86 at least partially defined by the
    support platform 254. In an embodiment, at least a portion of the grooves 264 extend in a
    direction different than at least a portion of the channels 266. For example, at least a portion
20  of the grooves 264 may extend perpendicularly to the channels 266. In addition, at least a
    portion of the grooves 264 may extend in a direction corresponding to the channels 266.
             The grooves 264 may have a first radius of curvature in a direction corresponding to
    the first depth from which the grooves 264 extend from the support surface 262. In this
    regard, the grooves 264 may have a generally concave profile. For example, a concave
25  surface profile may be defined along the groove 264. Similarly the channel 266 may include
    a second radius of curvature in a direction corresponding with the second depth. In this
    regard, the channels 266 may also have a generally concave profile (e.g., a concave surface
    profile). The first radius of curvature may be larger than the second radius of curvature such
    that the grooves 264 include a shallower profile versus a steeper profile of the channels 266.
30           In an embodiment, the grooves 264 may be adapted to engage a first portion of a
    medication receptacle. For example, the concave surface profile of the grooves 264 may
    correspond with the circumference of the barrel of a syringe. In this regard, the syringe
    barrel may be received in the grooves 264 such that movement of the syringe barrel
    corresponding to rolling of the syringe may be restricted when disposed on the support
35  platform 256 and engaged by a groove 264. In a similar regard, the channels 266 may be
    adapted to engage a second portion of a medication receptacle. For example, the concave

                                                32
    surface profile of the channels 266 may correspond with finger rest of a syringe. Additionally
   or alternatively, the concave surface profile of the channels 266 may correspond with a
    plunger end. In this regard, when the barrel of a syringe is disposed in a groove 264, the
   finger rest and/or plunger end of the syringe may be engaged by the channel 266 that may
 5 restrict motion of the syringe along the length of the groove 264. As such, the syringe may
   be constrained in at least two degrees of freedom to reduce the potential the syringe
   mistakenly moves (e.g., slides, is disrupted, or otherwise moved) from the support platform
   256. It may also be appreciated that the concave surface profile of the grooves 264 and/or
   the channels 266 may be operable to retain a cylindrical body (e.g., a vial, bottle, or other
10 cylindrical container) to prevent rolling movement thereof.
            The foregoing description of the present invention has been presented for purposes
   of illustration and description.    Furthermore, the description is not intended to limit the
   invention to the form disclosed herein.         Consequently, variations and modifications
   commensurate with the above teachings, and skill and knowledge of the relevant art, are
15 within the scope of the present invention. The embodiments described hereinabove are
   further intended to explain known modes of practicing the Invention and to enable others
   skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or other embodiments and with various
   modifications required by the particular application(s) or use(s) of the present invention. It is
   intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the
20 extent permitted by the prior art.

                                                   33
                                                Claims
          1.     A work station for use in a system for medical dose preparation management,
comprising:
         a base;
         a support platform at least partially defining a medication preparation staging region and
having a support surface that includes a plurality of grooves defined by an outside face of the
support platform that are adapted to support at least a portion of a medication receptacle, wherein
a first portion of the plurality of grooves extend in a first direction corresponding with a width of
the support surface, and wherein a second portion of the plurality of grooves extend across said
first portion of the plurality of grooves in a second direction corresponding with a length of the
support surface; and,
         an imaging device supportably disposed relative to the base and having an imaging field
encompassing at least a portion of the medication preparation staging region.
         2.      A work station according to Claim 1, further comprising:
         a scale to output a weight corresponding to a medication receptacle supportably disposed
on said support surface in said medication preparation staging region.
         3.      A work station according to Claim 2, wherein said scale is included in said base.
         4.      A work station according to Claim 3, wherein said support platform is removably
disposed relative to said base.
         5.      A work station according to Claim 2, wherein said scale comprises a plurality of
load cells.
         6.      A work station according to Claim 2, further comprising:

                                                  34
        a processor in operative communication with said scale; and,
        a memory in operative communication with the processor, wherein the processor is
operable to compare the weight to an anticipated weight of the medication receptacle.
        7.      A work station according to Claim 6, wherein said weight and said anticipated
weight are stored in said memory as a part of metadata corresponding to a medication dose order.
        8.      A work station according to Claim 7, wherein the processor is operable to
calculate a deviation of the weight to the anticipated weight.
        9.      A work station according to Claim 8, wherein the deviation is compared to a
threshold deviation, and wherein when the deviation exceeds a threshold deviation an alert is
provided to a user.
        10.     A work station according to Claim 3, further comprising:
        a housing, wherein said imaging device is located at least partially within the housing;
and, a support member extending between the base and the housing for supportably disposing
        the imaging device relative to the base and the support platform.
        11.     A work station according to Claim 10, further comprising:
        a transparent shield, wherein said housing and said transparent shield collectively define
a continuous outer surface and an enclosed volume within which said imaging device is
disposed.
        12.     A work station according to Claim 11, wherein the transparent shield covers at
least a portion of the imaging device corresponding to at least a lens of the imaging device,
wherein the imaging field extends through the transparent shield.

                                                    35
         13.     A work station according to Claim 11, wherein the imaging device has at least
one fixed optical setting that is preset.
         14.     A work station for use in a system for medical dose preparation management,
comprising:
        a base;
        a support platform at least partially defining a medication preparation staging region and
having a support surface that includes a plurality of grooves, a plurality of channels, and a
surface having a corresponding reference plane, wherein
                 a first portion of the plurality of grooves extend in a first direction corresponding
        with a width of the support surface,
                 a second portion of the plurality of grooves extend across said first portion of the
        plurality of grooves in a second direction corresponding with a length of the support
        surface,
                 each of said plurality of grooves defines a corresponding concave surface having
        a first radius of curvature,
                 the plurality of channels extend in said second direction corresponding with said
        length of said support surface,
                 each of said plurality of channels defines a corresponding concave surface having
        a second radius of curvature, wherein
                 said first radius of curvature is greater than said second radius of said curvature,
                 said plurality of grooves extend from the reference plane a first depth, and
                 said plurality of channels extend from the reference plane a second depth that is
        greater than the first depth; and
        an imaging device supportably disposed relative to the base and having an imaging field
encompassing at least a portion of the medication preparation staging region.
        15.      A work station according to Claim 14, further comprising:

                                                  36
        a scale to output a weight corresponding to a medication receptacle supportably disposed
on said support surface in said medication preparation staging region.
        16.     A work station according to Claim 15, wherein said scale is included in said base.
        17.      work station according to Claim 16, wherein said support platform is removably
disposed relative to said base.
        18.     A work station according to Claim 15, wherein said scale comprises a plurality of
load cells.
        19.     A work station according to Claim 15, further comprising:
        a processor in operative communication with said scale; and,
        a memory in operative communication with the processor, wherein the processor is
operable to compare the weight to an anticipated weight of the medication receptacle.
        20.     A work station according to Claim 19, wherein said weight and said anticipated
weight are stored in said memory as a part of metadata corresponding to a medication dose order.
        21.     A work station according to Claim 20, wherein the processor is operable to
calculate a deviation of the weight to the anticipated weight.
        22.     A work station according to Claim 21, wherein the deviation is compared to a
threshold deviation, and wherein when the deviation exceeds a threshold deviation an alert is
provided to a user.
        23.     A work station according to Claim 16, further comprising:
        a housing, wherein said imaging device is located at least partially within the housing;
and, a support member extending between the base and the housing for supportably disposing

                                                   37
        the imaging device relative to the base and the support platform.
         24.     A work station according to Claim 23, further comprising:
         a transparent shield, wherein said housing and said transparent shield collectively define
a continuous outer surface and an enclosed volume within which said imaging device is
disposed.
         25.     A work station according to Claim 24, wherein the transparent shield covers at
least a portion of the imaging device corresponding to at least a lens of the imaging device,
wherein the imaging field extends through the transparent shield.
         26.     A work station according to Claim 24, wherein the imaging device has at least
one fixed optical setting that is preset.
         27.     A work station for use in a system for medical dose preparation management,
comprising:
         a base;
         a support platform at least partially defining a medication preparation staging region and
having a support surface that includes a plurality of grooves, wherein a first portion of the
plurality of grooves extend in a first direction corresponding with a width of the support surface,
and wherein a second portion of the plurality of grooves extend across said first portion of the
plurality of grooves in a second direction corresponding with a length of the support surface;
         an imaging device supportably disposed relative to the base and having an imaging field
encompassing at least a portion of the medication preparation staging region;
         a scale to output a weight corresponding to a medication receptacle supportably disposed
on said support surface in said medication preparation staging region;
         a processor in operative communication with said scale; and
         a memory in operative communication with the processor, wherein

                                                 38
                the processor is operable to compare the weight to an anticipated weight of the
        medication receptacle and calculate a deviation of the weight to the anticipated weight,
                said weight and said anticipated weight are stored in said memory as a part of
        metadata corresponding to a medication dose order,
                the deviation is compared to a threshold deviation, and
                when the deviation exceeds a threshold deviation an alert is provided to a user.
        28.     A work station according to Claim 27, wherein said scale is included in said base.
        29.     A work station according to Claim 28, wherein said support platform is
removably disposed relative to said base.
        30.     A work station according to Claim 27, wherein said scale comprises a plurality of
load cells.
        31.     A work station according to Claim 27, further comprising:
        a housing, wherein said imaging device is located at least partially within the housing;
and, a support member extending between the base and the housing for supportably disposing
        the imaging device relative to the base and the support platform.
        32.     A work station according to Claim 31, further comprising:
        a transparent shield, wherein said housing and said transparent shield collectively define
a continuous outer surface and an enclosed volume within which said imaging device is
disposed.
        33.     A work station according to Claim 32, wherein the transparent shield covers at
least a portion of the imaging device corresponding to at least a lens of the imaging device,
wherein the imaging field extends through the transparent shield.

                                             39
        34.    A work station according to Claim 32, wherein the imaging device has at least
one fixed optical setting that is preset.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
