  ABSTRACT
  The present disclosure relates to an isolated anti-FcRn antibody, which is an antibody
  binding to FcRn (stands for neonatal Fc receptor, also called FcRP, FcRB or Brambell
  receptor) that is a receptor with a high affinity for IgG or a fragment thereof, a method
5 of preparing thereof, a composition for treating autoimmune disease, which comprises
  the antibody, and a method of treating and diagnosing autoimmune diseases using the
  antibody. The FcRn-specific antibody according to the present disclosure binds to FcRn
  non-competitively with IgG to reduce serum pathogenic auto-antibody levels, and thus
  can be used for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.

                                                   1
     ANTIBODY BINDING TO FCRN FOR TREATING AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES
 [1]    This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015253915, which is the
      Australian National Phase of PCT/KR2015/004424 which claims priority from United States
      patent application 61/986,742, filed 30 April 2014. The contents of each application listed in
      this paragraph are fully incorporated by reference herein.
Technical Field
[2]     The present disclosure relates to an isolated anti-FcRn antibody, which is an antibody
      binding to FcRn (stands for neonatal Fc receptor, also called FcRP, FcRB or Brambell
      receptor) that is a receptor with a high affinity for IgG or a fragment thereof, a method of
      preparing thereof, a composition for treating autoimmune disease, which comprises the
      antibody, and a method of treating and diagnosing autoimmune diseases using the antibody.
      The FcRn-specific antibody according to the present disclosure binds to FcRn non
      competitively with IgG to reduce serum pathogenic auto-antibody levels, and thus can be
      used for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
      Background art
[3]     Antibodies are immunological proteins that bind to a specific antigen. In most animals,
      including humans and mice, antibodies are constructed from paired heavy and light
      polypeptide chains and each chain is made up of two distinct regions, referred to as the
      variable and constant regions. The light and heavy chain variable regions show significant
      sequence diversity between antibodies, and are responsible for binding the target antigen.
      The constant regions show less sequence diversity, and are responsible for binding a number
      of natural proteins to elicit important biochemical events.
[4]     Under normal conditions, the half-life of most IgG excluding IgG3 isotype in serum is
      about 22-23 days in humans, which is a prolonged period relative to the serum half-life of
      other plasma proteins. With respect to this prolonged serum half-life of IgG, IgG that
      entered cells by endocytosis can strongly bind to neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn, a kind of Fc
      gamma receptor) in endosomes at a pH of 6.0 to avoid the degradative lysosomal pathway.
      When the IgG-FcRn complex cycles to the plasma membrane, IgG dissociates rapidly from
      FcRn in the bloodstream at slightly basic pH (~7.4). By this receptor-mediated recycling
      mechanism, FcRn effectively rescues the IgG from degradation in lysosomes, thereby
      prolonging the half-life of IgG (Roopenian et al. J. Immunol. 170:3528, 2003).

                                                  1A
[5]   FcRn was identified in the neonatal rat gut, where it functions to mediate the absorption of
    IgG antibody from the mother's milk and facilitates its transport to the circulatory system.
    FcRn has also been isolated from human placenta, where it mediates absorption and
    transport of maternal IgG to the fetal circulation. In adults, FcRn is expressed in a number
    of tissues, including epithelial tissues of the lung, intestine,

     kidney, as well as nasal, vaginal, and biliary tree surfaces.
[6]    FcRn is a non-covalent heterodimer that typically resides in the endosomes of en
     dothelial and epithelial cells. FcRn is a membrane bound receptor having three heavy
     chain alpha domains (al, a2 and a3) and a single soluble light chain    p2-microglobulin
     (132m) domain. Structurally, it belongs to a family of major histocompatibility complex
     class 1 molecules that have (32m as a common light chain. The FcRn chain has a
     molecular weight of about 46 kD and is composed of an ectodomain containing the a 1,
     a2, and a3 heavy chain domains and a P2m light chain domain and having a single
     sugar chain, a single-pass transmembrane, and a relatively short cytoplasmic tail.
[7]    In order to study the contributions of FcRn to IgG homeostasis, mice have been en
     gineered so that at least part of the genes encoding 132m and FcRn heavy chains have
     been "knocked out" so that these proteins are not expressed. In these mice, the serum
     half-life and concentrations of IgG were dramatically reduced, suggesting an FcRn
     dependent mechanism for IgG homeostasis. It has also been suggested that anti-human
     FcRn antibodies may be generated in these FcRn knockout mice and that these an
     tibodies may prevent the binding of IgG to FcRn. The inhibition of IgG binding to
     FcRn negatively alters IgG serum half-life by preventing IgG recycling, so that au
     toimmune diseases caused by auto-antibodies can be treated. This possibility was
     shown in a mouse model of autoimmune cutaneous bullous diseases (Li et al. J. Clin.
     Invest. 115:3440, 2005). Accordingly, agents that block or antagonize the binding of
     IgG to FcRn may be used in a method for treating or preventing autoimmune and in
     flammatory diseases, which are mediated by IgG.
118]   "Autoimmune diseases" cover diseases that occur when the body's immune system
     attacks its own normal tissues, organs or other in vivo components due to immune
     system abnormalities whose cause cannot be found. These autoimmune diseases are
     systemic diseases that can occur in almost all parts of the body, including the nervous
     system, the gastrointestinal system, the endocrine system, the skin, the skeletal system,
     and the vascular tissue. It is known that autoimmune diseases affect about 5-8%/ of the
     world population, but the reported prevalence of autoimmune diseases is lower than
     the actual level due to limitations in the understanding of autoimmune diseases and a
     method for diagnosing these diseases.
19]    The causes of autoimmune diseases have been studied for a long period of time in
     terms of genetic, environmental and immunological factors, but have not yet been
     clearly identified. Many recent studies revealed that a number of autoimmune diseases
     are caused by IgG-type autoantibodies. In fact, the relation between the presence or
     absence of disease-specific autoantibodies and the treatment of autoimmune diseases
     has been widely identified from studies on the disease and the treatment of au
     toimmune diseases. Thus, the presence of disease-specific autoantibodies and the

     pathological role thereof in a large number of autoimmune diseases have been
     identified, and when the autoantibodies of interest are removed from blood, an effect
     of quickly treating diseases can be obtained.
[10]   Autoimmune diseases and alloimmune diseases are mediated by pathogenic an
     tibodies, and typical examples thereof include immune neutropenia, Guillain-Barre
     syndrome, epilepsy, autoimmune encephalitis, Isaac's syndrome, nevus syndrome,
     pemphigus vulgaris, Pemphigus foliaceus, Bullous pemphigoid. epidermolysis bullosa
     acquisita, pemphigoid gestationis, mucous membrane pemphigoid, antiphospholipid
     syndrome, autoimmune anemia, autoimmune Grave's disease, Goodpasture's
     syndrome, myasthenia gravis, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, idiopathic
     Thrombocytopenic Purpura(ITP), lupus nephritis or membranous nephropathy, or the
     like.
[11]   For example, it is known that, in case of myasthenia gravis (MG), acetylcholine
     receptor (AChR) located at the neuromuscular junction of voluntary muscles is
     destroyed or blocked by autoantibodies against the receptor to impair the function of
     voluntary muscles. Also, it is known that when such autoantibodies are reduced, the
     function of muscles is restored.
[12]   As to the case of ITP, ITP is a disease caused by the destruction of peripheral
     platelets due to the generation of auto-antibodies that bind to a specific platelet
     membrane glycoprotein. Anti-platelet antibodies opsonize platelets and result in rapid
     platelet destruction by reticular cells (e.g., macrophages).
[13]   In general, attempts to treat ITP include suppressing the immune system, and con
     sequently causing an increase in platelet levels, ITP affects women more frequently
     than men, and is more common in children than adults. The incidence is 1 out of
     10,000 people. Chronic ITP is one of the major blood disorders in both adults and
     children. It is a source of significant hospitalization and treatment cost at specialized
     hematological departments in the US and around the world. Each year there are ap
     proximately 20,000 new cases in the US, and the cost for ITP care and special therapy
     is extremely high. Most children with ITP have a very low platelet count that causes
     sudden bleeding, with typical symptoms including bruises, small red dots on the skin,
     nosebleeds and bleeding gums. Although children can sometimes recover with no
     treatment, many doctors recommend careful observation and mitigation of bleeding
     and treatment with intravenous infusions of gamma globulin.
[14]   It is known that the important pathogenesis of Lupus nephritis, a kind of autoimmune
     disease, is that an increased immune complex, which could be occurred due to the in
     appropriate overproduction of auto-antibodies such as anti-nuclear antibodies, is ac
     cumulated in the systemic organs to cause inflammatory responses. About 40-70% of
     Lupus patients have renal involvement, and about 30% of the patients develop Lupus

     nephritis, which is known as a bad prognostic factor in Lupus patients. Although
     methods of treating Lupus nephritis using immunosuppressive agents have been
     attempted, it was reported that remission was not induced in about 22o of Lupus
     nephritis patients even when immunosuppressive agents were used. Also, it was
     reported that, even when remission was induced, 10-65o of patients relapsed into
     Lupus nephritis when the use of immunosuppressive agents was reduced. Ultimately,
     5-10% of patients with serious Lupus nephritis (WHO class III and IV) die after 10
     years, and 5-15% of the patients lead to end-stage renal stage. Thus, appropriate
     treatment of Lupus nephritis has not yet been reported.
[15]   Thus, the use of antibodies having a new mechanism that treat autoimmune diseases
     by clearing pathogenic autoantibodies is expected to have therapeutic effects against
     pathogenic IgG-mediated autoimmune diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris, neu
     romyelitis optica and myasthenia gravis, as well as immune complex-mediated
     glomerular diseases such as Lupus nephritis or membraneous nephropathy.
[16]   Methods of treating autoimmune diseases by intravenous administration of IgG
     (IVIG) in large amounts have been widely used (Arnson Autoimmunity 42:553, 2009).
     IVIG effects are explained by various mechanisms, but are also explained by the
     mechanism that increases the clearance of pathogenic antibodies by competition with
     endogenous IgG for FcRn. Intravenous administration of human immunoglobulin
     (IVIG) in large amounts has been shown to increase platelet counts in children
     afflicted with immune ITP, and IVIG has shown to be beneficial as a treatment for
     several other autoimmune conditions. Many studies have investigated the mechanisms
     by which IVIG achieves effects in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. With regard
     to ITP, early investigations led to the conclusion that IVIG effects are mainly due to
     blockade of the Fc receptors responsible for phagocytosis of antibody-opsonized
     platelets. Subsequent studies showed that Fc-depleted IVIG preparations provided
     increases in platelet counts in some patients with ITP, and recently it was reported that
     IVIG effects are due to stimulation of FcyRIIb expression on macrophage cells,
     leading to inhibition of platelet phagocytosis.
[17]   However, such IVIG treatments have substantial side effects and are very costly to
     administer. Further, other therapies used for the treatment of autoimmune/alloimmune
     conditions other than IVIG include polyclonal anti-D immunoglobulin, corticosteroids,
     immuno-suppressants (including chemotherapeutics), cytokines, plasmapheresis, extra
     corporeal antibody adsorption (e.g., using Prosorba columns), surgical interventions
     such as splenectomy, and others. However, like IVIG, these therapies are also com
     plicated by incomplete efficacy and high cost. Also, very high doses of IVIG are
     required to produce substantial increases in the clearance of pathogenic antibody due to
     the putative mechanism of IVIG inhibition of FcRn binding with pathogenic antibody

     (i.e., competitive inhibition) and due to the fact that IgG shows very low affinity for
     FcRn at physiologic pH (ie., pH 7.2-7.4), and the typical clinical dose of IVIG is about
     2 g/kg.
[18]   The use of an inhibitor that competitively inhibits the binding of IgG to FcRn to treat
     autoimmune diseases is a promising therapeutic method. However, owing to the high
     affinity of endogenous IgG for FcRn and to the high concentrations of endogenous IgG
     in blood, it is likely that competitive inhibition of FcRn would require very high doses,
     and thus have the same limitations similar to those of the current IVIG treatment.
[19]   Accordingly, although the anti-FcRn antibody is disclosed in W02006/118772,
     W02007/087289, W02009/131702, W02012/167039, there is an urgent need for the
     development of an improved human antibody that has a high affinity for FcRn, and
     thus can remove pathogenic antibody even at low doses and reduce immunogenicity.
[20]
[21]    Disclosure of Invention Technical Problem
[22]   The present inventors have made extensive efforts to solve the above-described
     problems and to provide a medicament for effectively and fundamentally treating au
     toimmune disease including ITP, and finally provide an antibody that has a high
     affinity for FcRn or a fragment thereof and a method of preparing the same. The
     antibody binding to FcRn or a fragment thereof, binds specifically to the FcRn chain in
     a pH-independent manner and interferes non-competitively with the binding of Fc of
     antibody to FcRn, to treat autoimmune disease by reducing autologous antibody in
     vivo, which could be a cause of autoimmune disease.
[23]   It is an object of the present disclosure to provide a pharmaceutical composition for
     treating autoimmune diseases, comprising the antibody binding to FcRn, wherein the
     autoimmune disease is immune neutropenia, Guillain-Barre syndrome, epilepsy, an
     toimmune encephalitis, Isaac's syndrome, nevus syndrome, pemphigus vulgaris,
     Pemphigus foliaceus, Bullous pemphigoid, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita,
     pemphigoid gestationis, mucous membrane pemphigoid, antiphospholipid syndrome,
     autoimmune anemia, autoimmune Grave's disease, Goodpasture's syndrome,
     myasthenia gravis, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, idiopathic thrombo
     cytopenic purpura, lupus nephritis or membranous nephropathy, or the like.
[24]
[25]   Technical Solution
[26]   To achieve the above objects, the present disclosure provides an isolated anti-FcRn
     antibody comprising:
[27]    CDRI comprising one or more amino acid sequence selected from the group
     consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 21, 24, 27, 30, 33, 36, 39 and 42;
[28]    CDR2 comprising one or more amino acid sequence selected from the group

     consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 22, 25, 28, 31, 34, 37, 40 and 43; and
[29]   CDR3 comprising one or more amino acid sequence selected from the group
     consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 23, 26, 29, 32, 35, 38, 41 and 44, or a fragment thereof.
[30]   Further, the present disclosure provides an isolated anti-FcRn antibody or a fragment
     thereof comprising:
[31]   CDR 1 comprising amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one
     or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 21.
     24, 27, 30, 33, 36, 39 and 42;
[32]   CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one
     or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 22,
     25, 28, 31, 34, 37, 40 and 43; and
[33]   CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one
     or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 23,
     26, 29, 32, 35, 38, 41 and 44.
[34]   Further, the present disclosure provides an isolated anti-FcRn antibody comprising
     one or more heavy chain variable regions and light chain variable regions comprising
     one or more amino acid sequences selected from the group consisting of amino acid
     sequences of SEQ ID Nos: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20.
[35]   Further, the present disclosure provides an isolated anti-FcRn antibody comprising
     one or more heavy chain variable regions and light chain variable regions comprising
     amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one or more amino acid
     sequences selected from the group consisting of amino acid sequences of SEQ ID Nos:
     2,4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20.
[36]   Further, the present disclosure provides polynucleotide encoding the anti-FcRn
     antibody or a fragment thereof.
[37]   Further, the present disclosure provides polynucleotide encoding an anti-FcRn
     antibody comprising one or more sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ
     ID Nos: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17 and 19.
[38]   Further, the present disclosure provides polynucleotide encoding an anti-FcRn
     antibody comprising sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one or more
     sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15,
     17 and 19.
[39]   Further, the present disclosure provides a recombinant expression vector comprising
     the polynucleotide, host cell, which is transected with the recombinant expression
     vector. The present disclosure additionally provides a method of preparing an antibody
     binding specifically to FcRn or a fragment thereof comprising: culturing the host cell
     and producing the antibody therefrom; and isolating and purifying the produced
     antibody to recover the anti-FcRn antibody.

[40]   Further, the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the
     anti-FcRn antibody or a fragment thereof, and one or more pharmaceutically ac
     ceptable carrier.
[41]   Further, the present disclosure provides a method of treating a patient suffering from
     an autoimmune disease, comprising administering the composition to said patient.
[42]   Further, the present disclosure provides a composition comprising the antibody
     labelled with a detection label.
[43]   Further, the present disclosure provides a method of detecting FcRn in vivo or in
     vitro comprising using the anti-FcRn antibody or a fragment thereof.
[44]
[45]   Advantageous Effects
[46]   The inventive antibody or a fragment thereof specific for FcRn that is a receptor
     having a high affinity for IgG has high affinity and specificity, causes little or no im
     munogenicity-related problems, and binds to FcRn non-competitively with IgG or the
     like to reduce serum auto-antibody levels. By virtue of such properties, the antibody or
     a fragment thereof is useful for the treatment and diagnosis of autoimmune diseases.
[47]
     Brief Description of Drawings
[48]   FIG. 1 shows the results of analyzing the expression of antibodies in CHO-S cells
     and analyzing HL161A, HL161B, HL161C and HL161D antibody proteins, obtained
     by protein A purification, on SDS-PAGE gel under a reduced or non-reduced
     condition. It was shown that, under a non-reduced condition, each of the HL161 an
     tibodies had a whole human IgGI type structure having a size of about 160 kDa, and
     under a reduced condition, the heavy chain had a size of about 55 kDa, and the light
     chain had a size of about 25 kDa, suggesting that the antibody was composed of typical
     antibody subunits. In FIG. 1, lane 1 represents a molecular weight (M.W.) marker, lane
     2 represents 2 pg non-reduced (* NEM-treated) antibody, and lane 3 represents 2 pg
     reduced antibody.
[49]   FIG. 2 shows the results of analysis performed using a SPR system in order to
     determine the kinetic dissociation (KD) of four kinds of anti-FcRn antibodies
     (HL161A, HL161B, HL161C and HL161D) that bind to FcRn. The results in FIG. 2
     were obtained by analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the HL161A,
     HL161B, HL161C or HL161D antibody at pH 6.0 and pH 7.4 using a Proteon GLC
     chip and a Proteon XPR36 (Bio-Rad) system:
[50]   FIG. 2a shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161A antibody at pH 6.0.
[51]   FIG. 2b shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the

     HL161A antibody at pH 7.4.
[52]   FIG. 2c shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161B antibody at pH 6.0.
[53]   FIG. 2d shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161B antibody at pH 7.4.
[54]   FIG. 2e shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161C antibody at pH 6.0.
[55]   FIG. 2f shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161C antibody at pH 7.4.
[56]   FIG. 2g shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161D antibody at pH 6.0.
[57]   FIG. 2h shows the results of analyzing the interaction between human FcRn and the
     HL161D antibody at pH 7.4.
[58]   FIG. 3 shows the ability of two selected antibodies to bind to the cell surface, and
     shows the results obtained by treating human FcRn-overexpressing HEK293 cells with
     selected HL161A and HL161B antibodies binding to human FcRn present on the cell
     surface and analyzing the antibodies binding to cell surface at pH 6.0 and pH 7,4. The
     binding of each of the HL161A and HL161B antibodies to human FcRn was expressed
     as an MFI value obtained by performing fluorescent activated cell sorter (FACS) using
     Alexa488-labelled anti-human goat antibody after treating cells with each antibody at
     varying pHs.
[59]   FIG. 4 shows the results of analyzing the ability to block the binding of human IgG
     to human FcRn-expressing cells at pH 6.0, and shows the results of observing whether
     two selected antibodies binding to cell surface human FcRn can block the binding of
     human IgG to human FcRn, at the cell level. A profile about the ability to block the
     binding of Alexa488-labelled human IgG to human FcRn was obtained by diluting
     each of HL161A and HL161B antibodies, confirmed to bind to human FcRn
     overexpressing HEK293 cells, serially 4-fold from 200 nM.
[60]   FIG. 5a and FIG. 5b show the results of analyzing the effects of HL161A and
     HL161B antibodies, selected from human FcRn-expressing transgenic mouse Tg32
     (hFcRn+/+, h32m+/+, mFcRn-/-, m[32m-/-), on the catabolism of hIgGl. At 0 hour, 5
     mg/kg of biotin-hIgG and 495 mg/kg of human IgG were intraperitoneally ad
     ministered to saturate IgG in vivo. Regarding drug administration, at 24, 48, 72 and 96
     hours after administration of biotin-IgG, IgGI, HL161A, HL161B or PBS was injected
     intraperitoneally at doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg once a day. Sample collection was
     performed at 24, 48, 72, 96, 120 and 168 hours after administration of biotin-IgG. At
     24, 48, 72 and 96 hours, blood was collected before drug administration, and the
     remaining amount of biotin-IgG was analyzed by an ELISA method. The results were

     expressed as the ratio of the remaining amount at each time point to 100% for the
     remaining amount in the blood sample collected at 24 hours.
[61]   FIG. 6 shows the results of analyzing the change in blood level of monkey IgG
     caused by administration of two antibodies (H161A and HL161B) to cynomolgus
     monkeys having a sequence homology of 96% to human FcRn. Each of HL161A and
     HL161B antibodies was administered intravenously to cynomolgus monkeys at doses
     of 5 and 20 mg/kg once a day, and as a result, it was shown that monkey IgG decreased
     up to 70% compared to that at 0 hour, and decreased by about 30% up to day 29.
[62]   FIG. 6a shows the serum IgG-reducing effects of HL161A and HL161B antibodies at
     varying antibody concentrations.
[63]   FIG. 6b shows the serum IgG-reducing effects of HL161A and HL161B antibodies
     (concentration: (5 mg/kg) in monkey individuals.
[64]   FIG. 6c shows the serum IgG-reducing effects of HL161A and HL161B antibodies
     (concentration: (20 mg/kg) in monkey individuals.
[65]   FIGS. 7a and 7b show the results of analyzing the pharmacokinetic profiles of
     HL161A and HL161B in an experiment performed using cynomolgus monkeys. It was
     shown that HL161B had a high half-life AUC and Cmax overall compared to HL161A.
[66]   FIGS. 8a to 8c show the results of analyzing the changes in blood levels of monkey
     IgM, IgA and albumin caused by administration of HL161A and HL161B antibodies in
     an experiment performed using cynomolgus monkeys. There were slight changes in the
     blood levels of monkey IgM, IgA and albumin, such changes were within the normal
     ranges of cynomolgus monkeys, suggesting that such changes resulted from a
     difference between individuals rather than the influence of the test substances.
[67]   FIG. 8a shows a change in the serum IgM level of monkeys.
[68]   FIG. 8b shows a change in the serum IgA level of monkeys.
[69]   FIG. 8c shows a change in the serum albumin level of monkeys.
[70]
[71]   Mode for Invention
[72]   To achieve the above objects, the present disclosure provides an antibody, which can
     bind specifically to FcRn with high affinity in a pH-independent manner and is
     composed of a human-derived sequence, and thus causes little or no immune response
     when administered in vivo.
[73]   Antibodies according to the present disclosure are binding molecules having
     specificity for FcRn. The antibodies may include monoclonal antibodies (e.g., full
     length antibodies having an immunoglobulin Fc domain), antibody compositions with
     polyepitopic specificity, bispecific antibodies, diabodies, and single-chain molecules,
     as well as antibody fragments (e.g., Fab, F(ab')2 and Fv), but are not limited thereto.
     The antibodies according to the present disclosure may be, for example, monoclonal

     antibodies against human FcRn.
[74]   The monoclonal antibodies include murine antibodies. Further, the monoclonal an
     tibodies include "chimeric" antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and/or light
     chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies
     derived from a particular species such as mouse or belonging to a particular antibody
     class or subclass, while the remainder of the chain is identical with or homologous to
     corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to
     another antibody class or subclass such as human, as well as fragments of such an
     tibodies, so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity. "Humanized an
     tibodies" are used as a downstream set of "chimeric antibodies".
[75]    As an alternative to humanization, human antibodies can be generated. "Human an
     tibodies" are antibodies that are produced by humans or have amino acid sequences
     corresponding to antibodies produced using any human antibody production
     technology. Human antibodies can be produced using various technologies known in
     the art, including phage display libraries. Human antibodies can be prepared by admin
     istering an antigen to a transgenic animal that has been modified to produce such an
     tibodies in response to antigenic challenge, but whose endogenous loci have been
     disabled, e.g., immunized xenomice. Antibodies according to the present disclosure
     may be in the form of, for example, human antibodies.
[76]   Native four-chain antibodies are heterotetrameric glycoproteins composed of two
     identical light (L) chains and two identical heavy (H) chains. Each light chain has a
     variable domain at one end (VE) and a constant domain at its other end. Each heavy
     chain has a variable domain (V,,) at the N-terminus, and has three constant domains
     (CH) for a and y chains and four CH domains for [t and E isotypes.
[77]   The term "variable" refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains
     differ extensively in sequence among antibodies. The V domain mediates antigen
     binding and defines the specificity of a particular antibody for its particular antigen.
     However, the variability is concentrated in three segments called hypervariable regions
     (HVRs) i.e. CDRs both in the light-chain and the heavy chain variable domains. The
     more highly conserved portions of variable domains are called the framework regions
     (FR). The light and heavy chain variable domains comprise from N- to C-terminus the
     domains FRI, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3 and FR4.
[78]   In the present disclosure, antibodies having affinity and specificity for human FcRn
     were obtained using human immunoglobulin transgenic animals. Transgenic animals
     can be produced by inactivating animal Ig germline genes and transplanting human Ig
     germline gene loci. The use of transgenic animals has an advantage in that an antibody
     is naturally optimized by the animal immune system without requiring affinity
     maturation so that an antibody drug having low immunogenicity and high affinity can

     be developed within a short time (US20090098134, US20100212035, Menoret et al,
     Eur J Immunol, 40:2932, 2010).
[79]   In the present disclosure, OmniRatTM (OMT, USA) having technology patented for
     human immunoglobulin transgenic rats was used. OmniRatTM can efficiently select an
     antibody having a high affinity for human FcRn, because it has a heavy chain
     composed of CH2 and CH3 domains that are from rat genes, and V, D and J regions
     and CHI domain that are from human genes, and kappa light chain and lamda light
     chain from human, to efficiently select antibodies that have high affinity to human
     FcRn (Menoret et al, Eur J Immunol, 40:2932, 2010).
[80]   To obtain a monoclonal antibody having a high affinity for FcRn, a transgenic rat
     (OmniRatTM) was immunized by injecting human FcRn therein, and then B cells were
     extracted from the cells and fused with myeloma cells to generate a hybridoma, after
     which the produced antibody was purified from the generated hybridoma.
[81]   The antibody according to the present disclosure acts as a non-competitive inhibitor
     of IgG in binding to FcRn. The binding of the antibody of the present disclosure to
     FcRn results in the inhibition of pathogenic antibody to FcRn, which promotes the
     clearance (i.e., removal) of pathogenic antibody from the body of the subject to reduce
     the half-life of the pathogenic antibody.
[82]   As used herein, the term "pathogenic antibody" means antibodies that cause
     pathological conditions or diseases. Examples of such antibodies include, but are not
     limited to, anti-platelet antibodies, anti-acetylcholine antibodies, anti-nucleic acid an
     tibodies, anti-phospholipid antibodies, anti-collagen antibodies, anti-ganglioside an
     tibodies, anti-desmoglein antibodies, etc.
[83]   The antibody or a fragment thereof according to the present disclosure has an
     advantage in that it makes it possible to non-competitively inhibit the binding of
     pathogenic antibody to FcRn at physiological pH (i.e., pH 7.0-7.4). FcRn binds to its
     ligand (i.e., IgG) and does not substantially show affinity for IgG at physiological pH
     rather than acidic pH. Thus, the anti-FcRn antibody that binds specifically to FcRn at
     physiological pH acts as a non-competitive inhibitor of the binding of IgG to FcRn,
     and in this case, the binding of the anti-FcRn antibody to FcRn is not influenced by the
     presence of IgG. Thus, the inventive antibody that binds to FcRn non-competitively
     with IgG in a pH-independent manner has an advantage over conventional competitive
     inhibitors (i.e., antibodies that bind to FcRn competitively with IgG) in that it can treat
     diseases even at significantly low concentrations by the FcRn-mediated signaling of
     IgG. In addition, in the procedure of intracellular migration in a state bound to FcRn,
     the anti-FcRn antibody according to the present disclosure maintains its binding to
     FcRn with an affinity higher than IgG in blood, and thus can inhibit the binding of IgG
     to FcRn even in endosomes that arm acidic pH environments in which IgG can bind to

     FcRn, thereby promoting the clearance of IgG.
[84]   The antibody according to the present disclosure has an affinity for FcRn even in a
     physiological pH environment (i.e., pH 7.0-7.4) in which IgG does not bind to FcRn.
     At a pH of 6.0, the antibody of the present disclosure has a higher affinity for FcRn
     compared to serum IgG, suggesting that it acts as a non-competitive inhibitor.
[85]   In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the present disclosure is directed to an
     antibody binding specifically to FcRn or a fragment thereof comprising:
[86]   CDRI comprising amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one
     or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 21,
     24, 27, 30, 33, 36, 39 and 42;
[87]   CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one
     or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 22,
     25, 28, 31, 34, 37, 40 and 43; and
[881   CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence, which has at least 90% homology with one
     or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 23,
     26, 29, 32, 35, 38, 41 and 44.
[89]   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the deletion, addition or substitution of
     some amino acids in the amino acid sequences set forth in the above SEQ ID Nos. also
     falls within the scope of the present disclosure.
[90]   In addition, sequences having a homology to the nucleotide sequences and amino
     acid sequences set described in the present disclosure within a certain range also fall
     within the scope of the present disclosure. "Homology" refers to similarity to at least
     one nucleotide sequence or amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
     SEQ ID Nos: 1 to 44, and include a homology of at least 90%. Preferably, homology
     might be at least 91%, at least 92%, at least 93%, at least 94%, at least 95%, at least
     96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99%. The homology comparison is
     performed visually or using a known comparison program such as BLAST algorithm
     with standard settings. A commercially available program can express the homology
     between two or more sequences as a percentage. Homology (%) can be calculated for
     adjacent sequences.
[91]   Further, antibodies that bind specifically to FcRn having a KD (dissociation constant)
     of 0.01-2 nM at pH 6.0 and pH 7.4 also fall within the scope of the present disclosure.
     "KD" as used herein refers to equilibrium dissociation constant for antibody-antigen
     binding, and may be calculated using the following equation: KD = kd/ka, wherein ka
     indicates association rate constant, and kd indicates dissociation rate constant. The
     measurement of kd or ka can be performed at 25'C or 37 0 C.
[92]   In one example, the antibody of the present disclosure comprises: CDR1 comprising
     amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 21, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence of

      SEQ ID No: 22 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 23,
[93]    CDR I comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 27, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 28 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 29,
[94]    CDRI comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 33, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 34 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 35, or
[95]    CDR I comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 39, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 40 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 41.
[96]    The amino acid sequences set forth in the above SEQ ID Nos. may be amino acid
      sequences corresponding to the CDR 1 to CDR3 of the heavy-chain variable region.
[97]    In another example, the antibody or antigen-binding fragment of the present
      disclosure comprises:
[98]    CDRI comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 24, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 25 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 26,
[99]    CDR I comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 30, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 31 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 32.
[100]   CDR1 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 36, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 37 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 38, or
[101]   CDR1 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 42, CDR2 comprising amino
      acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 43 and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ
      ID No: 44.
[102]   The amino acid sequences set forth in the above SEQ ID Nos. may be amino acid
      sequences corresponding to the CDR I to CDR3 of the light-chain variable region.
[103]   Specifically, the antibody or antigen-binding fragment of the present disclosure
      comprises: one or more heavy chain variable region and light chain variable region
      selected from the group consisting of:
[104]   heavy chain variable region comprising CDR 1 comprising amino acid sequence of
      SEQ ID No: 21, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 22 and CDR3
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 23, and light chain variable region
      comprising CDRI comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 24, CDR2
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 25 and CDR3 comprising amino acid
      sequence of SEQ ID No: 26;
[105]   heavy chain variable region comprising CDR 1 comprising amino acid sequence of

      SEQ ID No: 27, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 28 and CDR3
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 29, and light chain variable region
      comprising CDR1 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 30. CDR2
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 31 and CDR3 comprising amino acid
      sequence of SEQ ID No: 32;
[106]   heavy chain variable region comprising CDR I comprising amino acid sequence of
      SEQ ID No: 33, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 34 and CDR3
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 35, and light chain variable region
      comprising CDR1 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 36, CDR2
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 37 and CDR3 comprising amino acid
      sequence of SEQ ID No: 38; and
[107]   heavy chain variable region comprising CDR l comprising amino acid sequence of
      SEQ ID No: 39, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 40 and CDR3
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 41, and light chain variable region
      comprising CDR1 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 42., CDR2
      comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 43 and CDR3 comprising amino acid
      sequence of SEQ ID No: 44.
[108]   In one example, the antibody or antigen-binding fragment of the present disclosure
      comprises one or more heavy chain variable region and light chain variable region
      comprising one or more amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
      amino acid sequences of SEQ ID No: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20.
[109]   Sepcifically, the antibody or antigen-binding fragment of the present disclosure
      comprises heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No:
      2, 4, 6, 8, or 10, and/or light chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of
      SEQ ID No: 12, 14, 16, 18 or 20.
[110]   In detail, the antibody or antigen-binding fragment of the present disclosure
      comprises one or more heavy chain variable region and light chain variable region
      selected from the group consisting of:
[111]   heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 2 and
      light chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 12;
[112]   heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 4 and
      light chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 14;
[113]   heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 6 and
      light chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 16;
[114]   heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 8 and
      light chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 18; and
[115]   heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 10 and
      light chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 20.

[116]   "Fragment" or "antibody fragment" as the terms are used herein in reference to an
      antibody refer to a polypeptide derived from an antibody polypeptide molecule (e.g.,
      an antibody heavy or light chain polypeptide) that does not comprise a full length
      antibody polypeptide, but which still comprises at least a portion of a full length
      antibody polypeptide. Antibody fragments often comprise polypeptides that comprise a
      cleaved portion of a full length antibody polypeptide, although the term is not limited
      to such cleaved fragments. Since a fragment, as the term is used herein in reference to
      an antibody, encompasses fragments that comprise single polypeptide chains derived
      from antibody polypeptides (e.g. a heavy or light chain antibody polypeptides), it will
      be understood that an antibody fragment may not, on its own, bind an antigen.
[117]    Fragments of the antibody according to the present disclosure include, but are not
      limited to, single-chain antibodies, bispecific, trispecific, and multispecific antibodies
      such as diabodies, triabodies and tetrabodies, Fab fragments, F(ab')2 fragments, Fd,
      scFv, domain antibodies, dual-specific antibodies, minibodies, scap (sterol regulatory
      binding protein cleavage activating protein), chelating recombinant antibodies.
      tribodies or bibodies, intrabodies, nanobodies, small modular immunopharmaceuticals
      (SMIP), binding-domain immunoglobulin fusion proteins, camelized antibodies, VHH
      containing antibodies, IgD antibodies, IgE antibodies, IgM antibodies, IgGI an
      tibodies, IgG2 antibodies, IgG3 antibodies, IgG4 antibodies, derivatives in antibody
      constant regions, and synthetic antibodies based on protein scaffolds, which have the
      ability to bind to FcRn. It will be obvious to those skilled in the art that any fragment
      of the antibody according to the present disclosure will show the same properties as
      those of the antibody of the present disclosure.
[118]   In addition, antibodies having a mutation in the variable region are included in the
      scope of the present disclosure. Examples of such antibodies include antibodies having
      a conservative substitution of an amino acid residue in the variable region. As used
      herein, the term "conservative substitution" refers to substitution with another amino
      acid residue having properties similar to those of the original amino acid residue. For
      example, lysine, arginine and histidine have similar properties in that they have a basic
      side-chain, and aspartic acid and glutamic acid have similar properties in that they have
      an acidic side chain. In addition, glycine, aspargin, glutamine, shrine, threonine,
      tyrosine, cysteine and tryptophan have similar properties in that they have an
      uncharged polar side-chain, and alanine, valine, leucine, threonine, isoleucine, proline,
      phenylalanine and methionine have similar properties in that they have a non-polar
      side-chain. Also, tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan and histidine have similar
      properties in that they have an aromatic side-chain. Thus, it will be obvious to those
      skilled in the art that, even when substitution of amino acid residues in groups showing
      similar properties as described above occurs; it will show no particular change in the

      properties. Accordingly, antibodies having a mutation caused by conservative sub
      stitution in the variable region are included in the scope of the present disclosure.
[119]   In addition, the antibody according to the present disclosure or its fragment may be
      used as a conjugate with another substance. Substances that may be used as conjugates
      with the antibody according to the present disclosure or its fragment include
      therapeutic agents that are generally used for the treatment of autoimmune diseases,
      substances capable of inhibiting the activity of FcRn, and a moiety that is physically
      associated with the antibody to improve its stabilization and/or retention in circulation,
      for example, in blood, serum, lymph, or other tissues. For example, the FcRn-binding
      antibody can be associated with a polymer, e.g., a non-antigenic polymer such as
      polyalkylene oxide or polyethylene oxide. Suitable polymers will vary substantially by
      weight. Polymers having molecular number average weights ranging from about 200 to
      about 35,000 (or about 1,000 to about 15,000, and 2,000 to about 12,500) can be used.
      For example, the FcRn-binding antibody can be conjugated to water soluble polymers,
      e.g., hydrophilic polyvinyl polymers, e.g. polyvinylalcohol and polyvinylpyrrolidone.
      A non-limiting list of such polymers includes, but is not limited to, polyalkylene oxide
      homopolymers such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) or polypropylene glycols, poly
      oxyethylenated polyols, copolymers thereof and block copolymers thereof, provided
      that the water solubility of the block copolymers is maintained.
[120]   In another embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a pharmaceutical com
      position for treating autoimmune disease comprising the anti-FcRn antibody, and one
      or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Also, the present disclosure is directed to
      a method of treating autoimmune disease comprising administering an effective
      amount of antibody binding specifically to FcRn to a patient in need thereof.
[121]   The pharmaceutical composition may comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable
      carrier, excipient, and the like, which are well known in the art. The pharmaceutically
      acceptable carriers should be compatible with the active ingredient such as the
      antibody or a fragment thereof according to the present disclosure and may be physi
      ological saline, sterile water, Ringer's solution, buffered saline, dextrose solution, mal
      todextrin solution, glycerol, ethanol, or a mixture of two or more thereof. In addition,
      the pharmaceutical composition of the present disclosure may, if necessary, comprise
      other conventional additives, including antioxidants, buffers, and bacteriostatic agents.
      Further, the pharmaceutical composition of the present disclosure may be formulated
      as injectable forms such as aqueous solutions, suspensions or emulsions with the aid of
      diluents, dispersants, surfactants, binders and lubricants. In addition, the pharma
      ceutical composition of the present disclosure may be provided by formulating into a
      various form such as powder, tablet, capsule, liquid, inject, ointment, syrup etc, and
      single-dosage or multi-dosage container such as sealed ample or vial.

[122]   The pharmaceutical composition of the present disclosure may be applied to all au
      toimmune diseases that are mediated by IgG and FcRn, and typical examples of such
      autoimmune diseases include, but are not limited to, immune neutropenia, Guillain
      Barre syndrome, epilepsy, autoimmune encephalitis, Isaac's syndrome, nevus
      syndrome, pemphigus vulgaris, Pemphigus foliaceus, Bullous pemphigoid, epi
      dermolysis bullosa acquisita, pemphigoid gestationis, mucous membrane pemphigoid,
      antiphospholipid syndrome, autoimmune anemia, autoimmune Grave's disease,
      Goodpasture's syndrome, myasthenia gravis, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis,
      lupus, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, lupus nephritis and membranous
      nephropathy.
[123]   In the treatment method according to the present disclosure, the dose of the antibody
      can be suitably determined by taking into consideration the patient's severity,
      condition, age, case history and the like. For example, the antibody may be ad
      ministered at a dose of 1 mg/kg to 2 g/kg. The antibody may be administered once or
      several times.
[124]   The present disclosure also provides a method for ameliorating an autoimmune or al
      loimmune condition, including administering the antibody of the present disclosure or
      a fragment of the antibody to a subject in need of treatment. The present disclosure
      also provides a specific anti-FcRn therapy.
[125]   The inventive method for ameliorating an autoimmune or alloimmune condition or
      the inventive anti-FcRn therapy can be achieved by administering the pharmaceutical
      composition of the present disclosure to a subject. The pharmaceutical composition of
      the present disclosure can be administered orally or parenterally. The pharmaceutical
      composition according to the present disclosure can be administered by various routes,
      including, but not limited to, oral, intravenous, intramuscular, intra-arterial, in
      tramedullary, intradural, intracardial, transdermal, subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, gas
      trointestinal, sublingual, and local routes. The dose of the composition of the present
      disclosure may vary depending on various factors, such as a patient's body weight,
      age, sex, health condition and diet, the time and method of administration, excretion
      rate, and severity of a disease, and may be easily determined by a person of ordinary
      skill in the art. Generally, 1-200 mg/kg, and preferably, 1-40 mg/kg of the composition
      may be administered to patients afflicted with autoimmune or alloimmune conditions,
      and these regimens are preferably designed to reduce the serum endogenous IgG con
      centration to less than 75% of pretreatment values. Intermittent and/or chronic
      (continuous) dosing strategies may be applied in view of the conditions of patients.
[126]   In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a diagnostic com
      position comprising the antibody of the present disclosure or a fragment thereof, and a
      diagnostic method that uses the diagnostic composition. In other words, the antibody of

      the present disclosure or a fragment thereof, which binds to FcRn, has in vitro and in
      vivo diagnostic utilities.
[127]   In another embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a composition for
      detecting FcRn comprising the anti-FcRn antibody or a fragment thereof. The present
      disclosure also provides a method, system or device for detecting FcRn in vivo or in
      vitro comprising treating the anti-FcRn antibody.
[128]   The in vitro detection method, system or device might, for example, include (1)
      bringing a sample into contact with the FcRn-binding antibody; (2) detecting the
      formation of a complex between the FcRn-binding antibody and the sample; and/or (3)
      bringing a reference sample (e.g., a control sample) into contact with the antibody; and
      (4) determining the degree of formation of the complex between the antibody and the
      sample by comparison with that in the reference sample. A change (e.g., a statistically
      significant change) in the formation of the complex in the sample or the subject as
      compared to that in the control sample or subject indicates the presence of FcRn in the
      sample.
[129]   The in vivo detection method, system or device may include: (1) administering the
      FcRn-binding antibody to a subject; and (2) detecting the formation of a complex
      between the FcRn-binding antibody and the subject. The detecting may include de
      termining location or time of formation of the complex. The FcRn-binding antibody
      can be directly or indirectly labeled with a detectable substance to facilitate detection
      of the bound or unbound antibody. Suitable detectable substances include various
      enzymes, prosthetic groups, fluorescent materials, luminescent materials, and ra
      dioactive materials. The formation of a complex between the FcRn-binding antibody
      and FcRn can be detected by measuring or visualizing the antibody bound or not
      bound to FcRn. A conventional detection assay, for example, enzyme-linked im
      munosorbent assay (ELISA), radioimmunoassay (RIA) or tissue immunohisto
      chemistry may be used. In addition to labeling of the FcRn-binding antibody, the
      presence of FcRn can be assayed in a sample by competition immunoassay using a
      standard labeled with a detectable substance and an unlabeled FcRn-binding antibody.
      In one example of this assay, the biological sample, the labeled standard and the FcRn
      binding antibody are combined and the amount of labeled standard unbound to FcRn is
      determined. The amount of FcRn in the biological sample is inversely proportional to
      the amount of labeled standard unbound to FcRn.
[130]   For detection purposes, the antibody of the present disclosure or a fragment thereof
      can be labeled with a fluorophore and a chromophore. Because antibodies and other
      proteins absorb light having wavelengths up to about 310 nm, the fluorescent moieties
      should be selected to have substantial absorption at wavelengths above 310 nm and
      preferably above 400 nm. The antibody of the present disclosure or a fragment thereof

      can be labeled with a variety of suitable fluorescers and chromophores. One group of
      fluorescers is xanthene dyes, which include fluoresceins and rhodamines. Another
      group of fluorescent compounds are naphthylamines. Once labeled with a fluorophore
      or chromophore, the antibody can be used to detect the presence or localization of the
      FcRn in a sample, e.g., using fluorescent microscopy (such as confocal or decon
      volution microscopy).
[131]   Detection of the presence or localization of FcRn using the antibody of the present
      disclosure or a fragment thereof can be performed by various methods such as his
      tological analysis, protein arrays and FACS (Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting).
[132]   In the present disclosure, the presence of FcRn or FcRn-expressing tissue in vivo can
      be performed by an in vivo Imaging method. The method includes (i) administering to
      a subject (e.g., a patient having an autoimmune disorder) an anti-FcRn antibody,
      conjugated to a detectable marker; and (ii) exposing the subject to a means for
      detecting said detectable marker to the FcRn-expressing tissues or cells. For example,
      the subject is imaged, e.g., by NMR or other tomographic means. Examples of labels
      useful for diagnostic imaging include radiolabels, fluorescent labels. positron emitting
      isotopes, chemiluminescers, and enzymatic markers. A radiolabeled antibody can also
      be used for in vitro diagnostic tests. The specific activity of a isotopically-labeled
      antibody depends upon the half life, the isotopic purity of the radioactive label, and
      how the label is incorporated into the antibody.
[133]   The present disclosure also provides a kit comprising an antibody that binds to FcRn
      a fragment thereof and instructions for diagnostic use, e.g., the use of the FcRn-binding
      antibody or a fragment thereof, to detect FcRn, in vitro, e.g., in a sample, e.g., a biopsy
      or cells from a patient having an autoimmune disorder, or in vivo, e.g., by imaging a
      subject. The kit can further contain at least one additional reagent, such as a label or
      additional diagnostic agent. For in vivo use, the antibody can be formulated as a phar
      maceutical composition.
[134]   In another embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to polynucleotide
      sequences that encode the antibody of the present disclosure or a fragment thereof.
[135]   In an example, a polynucleotide sequence that encodes the antibody of the present
      disclosure or a fragment thereof is a sequence, which has at least 90% homology with
      one or more sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 1, 3, 5, 7, 9,
      11, 13. 15, 17 and 19 or sequence having a homology of more than 90%, when
      compared with the sequences mentioned above.
[136]   Specifically, a polynucleotide sequence of the antibody of the present disclosure or a
      fragment thereof is a sequence that encodes heavy chain of the antibody of the present
      disclosure is SEQ ID No: 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9, and/or a sequence that encodes light chain of
      the antibody of the present disclosure is SEQ ID No: 11, 13, 15, 17 or 19.

[137]   In another embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a recombinant ex
      pression vector comprising the polynucleotide, host cell, which is transected with the
      recombinant expression vector and method of preparing an antibody binding
      specifically to FcRn or a fragment thereof by using the recombinant expression vector
      and host cell.
[138]   In one embodiment, the antibody or a fragment thereof according to the present
      disclosure is preferably produced by expression and purification using a gene recom
      bination method. Specifically, the variable regions that encode the inventive antibody
      that binds specifically to FcRn are produced by being expressed in separate host cells
      or simultaneously in a single host cell.
[139]   As used herein, the term "recombinant vector" refers to an expression vector capable
      of expressing the protein of interest in a suitable host cell and means a DNA construct
      including essential regulatory elements operably linked to express a nucleic acid insert.
      As used herein, the term "operably linked" means that a nucleic acid expression control
      sequence is functionally linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding the protein of
      interest so as to execute general functions. Operable linkage with the recombinant
      vector can be performed using a gene recombination technique well known in the art,
      and site-specific DNA cleavage and ligation can be easily performed using enzymes
      generally known in the art.
[140]   A suitable expression vector that may be used in the present disclosure may include
      expression regulatory elements such as a promoter, an operator, an initiation codon, a
      stop codon, a polyadenylation signal, and an enhancer, as well as a signal sequence for
      membrane targeting or secretion. The initiation and stop codons are generally
      considered as part of a nucleotide sequence encoding the immunogenic target protein,
      and are necessary to be functional in an individual to whom a genetic construct has
      been administered, and must be in frame with the coding sequence. Promoters may
      generally be constitutive or inducible. Prokaryotic promoters include, but are not
      limited to, lac, tac, T3 and T7 promoters. Eukaryotic promoters include, but are not
      limited to, simian virus 40 (SV40) promoter, mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)
      promoter, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) promoter such as the HIV Long
      Terminal Repeat (LTR) promoter, moloney virus promoter, cytomegalovirus (CMV)
      promoter, epstein barr virus (EBV) promoter, rous sarcoma virus (RSV) promoter, as
      well as promoters from human genes such as human i-actin, human hemoglobin,
      human muscle creatine and human metallothionein. The expression vector may include
      a selectable marker that allows selection of host cells containing the vector. Genes
      coding for products that confer selectable phenotypes, such as resistance to drugs,
      nutrient requirement, resistance to cytotoxic agents or expression of surface proteins,
      are used as general selectable markers. Since only cells expressing a selectable marker

      survive in the environment treated with a selective agent, transformed cells can be
      selected. Also, a replicable expression vector may include a replication origin, a
      specific nucleic acid sequence that initiates replication. Recombinant expression
      vectors that may be used in the present disclosure include various vectors such as
      plasmids, viruses and cosnids. The kind of recombinant vector is not specifically
      limited and the recombinant vector could function to express a desired gene and
      produce a desired protein in various host cells such as prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
      However, it is preferred to use a vector that can produce a large amount of a foreign
      protein similar to a natural protein while having strong expression ability with a
      promoter showing strong activity.
[141]    In the present disclosure, a variety of expression host/vector combinations may be
      used to express the antibody or or a fragment thereof according to the present
      disclosure. For example, expression vectors suitable for the eukaryotic host include,
      but are not limited to, SV40, bovine papillomavirus, adenovirus, adeno-associated
      virus, cytomegalovirus, and retrovirus. Expression vectors that may be used for
      bacterial hosts include bacterial plasmids such as pET, pRSET, pBluescript, pGEX2T.,
      pUC, col El, pCRl, pBR322, pMB9 and derivatives thereof, a plasmid such as RP4
      having a wider host range, phage DNA represented as various phage lambda
      derivatives such as gtl0, gtl 1 and NM989, and other DNA phages such as M13 and
      filamentous single-stranded DNA phage. Expression vectors useful in yeast cells
      include 2[im plasmid and derivatives thereof. A vector useful in insect cells is pVL941.
[142]   The recombinant vector is introduced into a host cell to form a transformant. Host
      cells suitable for use in the present disclosure include prokaryotic cells such as E. coli,
      Bacillus subtilis, Streptomyces sp., Pseudomonas sp., Proteus mirabilis and Staphy
      lococcus sp., fungi such as Aspergillus sp., yeasts such as Pichia pastoris, Sac
      charomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces sp., and Neurospora crassa, and eu
      karyotic cells such as lower eukaryotic cells, and higher other eukaryotic cells such as
      insect cells.
[143]    Host cells that may be used in the present disclosure are preferably derived from
      plants and mammals, and examples thereof include, but are not limited to, monkey
      kidney cells (COS7), NSO cells, SP2/0. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, W138,
      baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells, MDCK. myeloma cells, HuT 78 cells and HEK293
      cells. Preferably, CHO cells are used.
[144]   In the present disclosure, transfection or transformation into a host cell includes any
      method by which nucleic acids can be introduced into organisms. cells, tissues or
      organs, and, as known in the art, may be performed using a suitable standard technique
      selected according to the kind of host cell. These methods include, but are not limited
      to, electroporation, protoplast fusion, calcium phosphate (CaPO4) precipitation,

      calcium chloride (CaC12) precipitation, agitation with silicon carbide fiber, and
      agrobacterium-, PEG-, dextran sulfate-, lipofectamine- and desiccation/in
      hibition-mediated transformation.
[145]   The FcRn-specific antibody or a fragment thereof according to the present disclosure
      can be produced in large amounts by culturing the transformant comprising the re
      combinant vector in nutrient medium, and the medium and culture conditions that are
      used in the present disclosure can be suitable selected depending on the kind of host
      cell. During culture, conditions, including temperature, the pH of medium, and culture
      time, can be controlled so as to be suitable for the growth of cells and the mass
      production of protein. The antibody or antibody fragment produced by the recom
      bination method as described can be collected from the medium or cell lysate and can
      be isolated and purified by conventional biochemical isolation techniques (Sambrook
      et al., Molecular Cloning: A laborarory Manual, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Harbor
      Laboratory Press(1989); Deuscher, M., Guide to Protein Purification Methods En
      zymology, Vol. 182. Academic Press. Inc., San Diego, CA(1990)). These techniques
      include, but are not limited to, electrophoresis, centrifugation, gel filtration, pre
      cipitation, dialysis, chromatography (ion exchange chromatography, affinity chro
      matography, immunosorbent chromatography, size exclusion chromatograophy, etc.),
      isoelectric point focusing, and various modifications and combinations thereof.
      Preferably, the antibody or the antibody fragment is isolated and purified using protein
      A.
[146]   The antibodies of the present disclosure showed antigen binding abilities (KD
      values) from about 300 pM or less to about 2 nM or less at pH 7.4, and also showed
      KD values from 2 nM or less to 900 pM or less at pH 6.0. The antibodies of the present
      disclosure have a strong hFcRn binding affinity of 0.01-2 nM and thus it is believed
      that the antibodies bound to the outside of cells maintain even their binding to
      endosomes, suggesting that these antibodies have an excellent effect of blocking the
      binding of autoantibodies to hFcRn. In addition, this effect of blocking the binding of
      autoantibodies to hFcRn was also confirmed in a blocking assay performed using
      human FcRn-expressing cells and FACS.
[147]
[148]   Examples
[149]   Hereinafter, the present disclosure will be described in further detail with reference to
      examples. It will be obvious to a person having ordinary skill in the art that these
      examples are illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed to limit the scope of
      the present disclosure.
[150]
[151]   Example 1: Construction of anti-FcRn-expresing library using transgenic rats

[152]   Immunization was performed using a total of six transgenic rats (OmniRat., OMT).
      As an immunogen, human FcRn was used. Both footpads of the rats were immunized
      eight times with 0.0075 mg of human FcRn (each time) together with an adjuvant at
      3-day intervals for 24 days. On day 28, the rats were immunized with 5-10 [tg of the
      immunogen diluted in PBS buffer. On day 28, rat serum was collected and used to
      measure the antibody titer. On day 31, the rats were euthanized, and the popliteal
      lymph node and the inguinal lymph node were recovered for fusion with
      P3X63/AG8.653 myeloma cells.
[153]   ELISA analysis was performed to measure the antibody titer in rat serum.
      Specifically, human FcRn was diluted in PBS (pH 6.0 or pH 7.4) buffer to make 2 [tg/
      mL of a solution, and 100 [d of the solution was coated on each well of a 96-well plate,
      and then incubated at 4'C for at least 18 hours. Each well was washed three times with
      300 pLL of washing buffer (0.05% Tween 20 in PBS) to remove unbound human FcRn,
      and then 200 [tL of blocking buffer was added to each well and incubated at room tem
      perature for 2 hours. A test serum sample was diluted at 1/100, and then the solution
      was serially 2-fold diluted to make a total of 10 test samples having a dilution factor of
      1/100 to 1/256,000). After blocking, each well was washed with 300 tL of washing
      buffer, and then each test sample was added to each cell and incubated at room tem
      perature for 2 hours. After washing three times, 100 [tL of a 1:50,000 dilution of
      secondary detection antibody in PBS buffer was added to each well and incubated at
      room temperature for 2 hours. After washing three times again, 100 [tL of TMB
      solution was added to each well and allowed to react at room temperature for 10
      minutes, and then 50 [tL of I M sulfuric acid-containing stop solution was added to
      each well to stop the reaction, after which the OD value at 450 nm was measured with
      a microplate reader. Regarding the anti-hFcRn IgG titer resulting from immunization
      was higher than that in the pre-immune serum of the rats, which was not immunized
      with the OD value at 450 nm in the 1/100 dilution condition 1.0 or higher, suggesting
      that the rats were well immunized.
[154]   A total of three hybridoma libraries A, B and C fused using polyethylene glycol were
      made. Specifically, transgenic rats 1 and 5 were used to make hybridoma library A,
      and rats 2 and 6 were used to make hybridoma library B, and rats 3 and 4 were used to
      make hybridoma library C. A hybridoma library fusion mixture for constructing each
      hybridoma library was cultured in HAT-containing medium for 7 days so that only
      cells fused to HAT would be selected. Hybridoma cells viable in the HAT medium
      were collected and cultured in HT media for about 6 days, and then the supernatant
      was collected, and the amount of rat IgG in the supernatant was measured using a rat
      IgG ELISA kit (RD-biotech). Specifically, each sample was diluted at 1:100, and 100
      [LL of the dilution was added to each well of an ELISA plate and mixed with

      peroxidase-conjugated anti-rat IgG, followed by reaction at room temperature for 15
      minutes. 100 [tL of TMB solution was added to each well and allowed to react at room
      temperature for 10 minutes, and then 50 [tL of 1M sulfuric acid-containing stop
      solution was added to each well to stop the reaction. Next, the OD value at 450 nm was
      measured with a microplate reader.
[155]
[156]   Example 2: Evaluation of the antigen binding affinity and IgG binding blocking
      ability of anti-hFcRn antibodies of hybridoma libraries
[157]   To analyze the binding of antibodies to human FcRn, the same ELISA analysis (pH
      6.0 and pH 7.4) as mentioned above was performed. The results of evaluation of the
      hFcRn binding of the three hybridoma libraries A, B and C indicates that the hFcRn
      binding affinity was higher in the order of A > C > B at both pH 6.0 and pH 7.4.
[158]   Using the culture supernatants of the three hybridoma libraries, the evaluation of the
      hFcRn binding affinity by FACS at 5 ng/mL and 25 ng/mL was performed at pH 6.0
      and pH 7.4. Human FcRn-stable expressing HEK293 cells were detached from a flask,
      and then suspended in reaction buffer (0.05% BSA in PBS, pH 6.0 or pH 7.4). The
      suspension was diluted to a cell density of 2 x 106 cells/mL, and 50 [L of the dilution
      was added to each well of a 96-well plate. Then, 50 ptL of the hybridoma library
      culture supernatant diluted to each of 10 ng/mL and 50 ng/mL was added to each well
      and suspended to allow antibody to bind. A488 rabbit anti-IgG goat antibody was
      diluted at 1:200 in reaction buffer, and 100 [L of the dilution was added to each well
      and mixed with the cell pellets to perform a binding reaction, and then 150 [tL of
      reaction buffer was added to each well. Measurement was performed in FACS (BD).
      Like the ELISA results, it could be seen that hybridoma library A showed the highest
      binding affinity.
[159]   Evaluation of the human FcRn blocking ability of the hybridoma library by FACS
      was performed at pH 6.0. Specifically, naive HEK293 cells and human FcRn
      overexpressing HEK293 cells were suspended in reaction buffer (0.05% BSA in PBS,
      pH 6.0). 1x 105 cells were added to a 96-well plate, and treated with each of 4 nM of
      each hybridoma library culture supernatant and 0.4 nM of a 10-fold dilution of the su
      pernatant. To confirm the hIgG blocking ability, 100 nM A488-hIgG1 was added to
      each well, and then incubated on ice for 90 minutes. After completion of the reaction,
      the cell pellets were washed with 100 [L of reaction buffer. and transferred into a U
      shaped round bottom tube, followed by measurement in FACS. The amount of 100 nM
      A488-hIgGl remaining in the human FcRn-overexpressing stable cells was measured,
      and then the blocking (%) was calculated. As an isotype control, hIgG 1 was used, and
      as a positive control., previously developed HL161-lAg antibody was used to com
      paratively evaluate the antibody blocking effect. Each control was analyzed at concen-

      trations of 1 ptM and 2 [LM, and the hybridoma library sample was measured at two
      concentrations of 0.4 nM and 4 nM. As a result, it was found that hybridoma library A
      showed the highest blocking effect.
[160]
[161]   Example 3: Isolation of hybridoma clone by FACS and selection of human an
      tibodies
[162]   Using hybridoma library A showing the highest human FcRn binding affinity and
      blocking effect, clones were isolated by FACS (flow cytometry) to thereby obtain a
      total of 442 single clones. The isolated monoclones were cultured in HT media, and the
      supernatant was collected. Antibody-expressing hybridoma clones binding to hFcRn in
      the supernatant were selected by FACS. As a result, it could be seen that 100 clones
      (Ml-M100) did strongly bind to the hFcRn-expressing HEK293 cells.
[163]   RNA was isolated from the 100 monoclones selected by FACS analysis and the
      isolated RNA was sequenced. In the first-step sequencing, 88 of the 100 monoclones
      were sequenced, and divided according to the amino acid sequence into a total of 35
      groups (GI to G38). The culture supernatants of the representative clones of 33 groups
      excluding two clones (G33 and G35) whose media were not available were diluted at a
      concentration of 100 ng/mL, and the binding affinity for hFcRn was evaluated by
      ELISA.
[164]   In the same manner as described above, evaluation of the hFcRn binding affinity by
      FACS was performed at pH 6.0 and 7.4. The order of the binding affinity of the clones
      was similar between the pHs, and the binding intensity appeared at various levels.
[165]   In addition, evaluation of the hFcRn blocking effects of the 33 clones was performed
      by FACS at pH 6.0. The blocking (%) was calculated based on the measured MFI
      value. Based on the results of analysis of the blocking % at a concentration of 1667
      pM, the clones were divided into a total of the following four groups: group A:
      70-100%; group B: 30-70%; group C: 10-30%; and group D: 10% or less.
[166]   For kinetic analysis of the hybridoma clones by SPR, human FcRn was immobilized,
      and then the analysis was performed using the hybridoma culture as an analyte. Most
      of the clones excluding several clones showed a kon of 106 M or higher and a koff
      value of 10- M or lower. In conclusion, it was shown that all the clones had a KD
      value of 10-' to 10-" M.
[167]   Among the five hybridoma clones, the genes of 18 clones having no N-glycosylation
      site or free cysteine in the CDR sequences of groups A and B divided according to the
      results of analysis of the hFcRn blocking effect were converted to whole human IgG
      sequences.
[168]   Specifically, the amino acid sequence similarity between the VH and VL of the 18
      selected antibodies and the human germ line antibody group was examined using the

      Ig BLAST program of the NCBI webpage.
[169]   In order to clone the 18 human antibody genes, restriction enzyme recognition sites
      were inserted into both ends of the genes in the following manner. EcoRI/Apal were
      inserted into the heavy-chain variable domain (VH); EcoRI/XhoI were inserted into the
      light-chain lambda variable domain (VL()); EcoRI/NheI restriction enzyme
      recognitions sites were inserted into the light-chain kappa variable domain (VL(K)). In
      the case of the light-chain variable domain, the light-chain lambda variable (VLQ))
      gene sequence was linked to the human light-chain constant (LC() region gene during
      gene cloning, and the light-chain kappa variable (VL(K)) gene sequence was linked to
      the human light-chain constant (LC() region gene.
[170]   In cloning into pCHOL.0 expression vectors for expression of antibodies in animal
      cells, the light-chain and heavy-chain genes were inserted after cleavage with EcoRV,
      Pac, AvrII and BstZ 171 restriction enzymes. In order to examine whether pCHO 1.0
      expression vectors containing the 18 selected human antibody genes were consistent
      with the synthesized gene sequences, DNA sequencing was performed.
[171]   Using the pCHO1.0 expression vectors that are animal cell expression systems
      containing all the antibody light-chain and heavy-chain genes, whole human IgG was
      expressed. The human antibody was obtained by transiently transfecting the plasmid
      DNA of each of the antibodies into CHO-S cells and purifying the antibody, secreted
      into the medium, by protein A column.
[172]   Human IgG was injected into hFcRn-expressing Tg32 (hFcRn+/+, h132m+/+,
      mFcRn-/-, m[32m-/-) mice (Jackson Laboratory), and then the 18 human antibodies
      converted to the human IgG sequences were administered to the mice in order to
      examine whether the antibodies would influence the catabolism of human IgG.
[173]   Based on the in vitro analysis results for binding affinity (KD) for the antigen and the
      analysis of human FcRn binding affinity and blocking effect by FACS, and the in vivo
      analysis of catabolism of human IgG, four human anti-FcRn antibody proteins
      (HL161A, HL161B, HL161C and HL161D) that most effectively acted were selected
      (FIG. 1). In addition, an HL161BK antibody having no N-glycosylation site was
      prepared by substituting asparagine (N) at position 83 of the heavy-chain variable
      framework of the HL161B antibody with lysine (K). The nucleotide sequences, amino
      acid sequences and CDR sequences of the light-chain and heavy-chain variable regions
      of each antibody are shown in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
[174]
[175]   Table 1

[Table 1]
Polynucleotide sequences of heavy-chain and light-chain variable domains of selected
human FcRn antibodies
 Antibody name Heavy-chain variable domain         Light-chain variable domain
                 sequence                          sequence
                 SEQ ID    Polynucleotide          SEQ ID      Polynucleotide
                 NO.        sequence               NO.         sequence
 HL161A          1          GAAGTGCAGC              11         TCTTACGTGC
                           TGCTGGAATC CG-                      TGACCCAGCC       CC
                            GCGGAGGC                           CCTCCGTG
                           CTGGTGCAGC                          TCTGTGGCTC
                           CTGGCGGCTC                          CTGGCCAGAC
                           TCTGAGACTG TC-                      CGCCAGAATC AC
                            CTGCGCCG                           CTGTGGCG
                            CCTCCGAGTT                         GCAACAACAT CG
                           CACCTTCGGC                          GCTCCACC TC
                            AGCTGCGTGA                         CGTGCACT
                           TGACCTGGGT CC-                      GGTATCAGCA
                            GACAGGCT CC-                       GAAGCCCGGC
                            CGGCAAGG GC-                       CAGGCCCCCG
                           CTGGAATG                            TGCTGGTGGT
                            GGTGTCCGTG                         GCACGACGAC TC
                            ATCTCCGGCT                         CGACCGGC
                           CCGGCGGCTC                          CTTCTGGCAT CC
                           CACCTACTAC GC-                      CTGAGCGG
                           CGACTCTG                            TTCTCCGGCT
                           TGAAGGGCCG                          CCAACTCCGG
                            GTTCACCATC TC-                     CAACACCGCC AC
                           CCGGGACA                            CCTGACCA
                            ACTCCAAGAA                         TCTCCAGAGT
                           CACCCTGTAC CT-                      GGAAGCCGGC
                            GCAGATGA                           GACGAGGCCG AC
                            ACTCCCTGCG                         TACTACTG
                            GGCCGAGGAC AC-                     CCAAGTGCGA
                           CGCCGTGT AC-                        GACTCCTCCT CC
                           TACTGCGC                            GACCACGT
                           CAAGACCCCC TG-                      GATCTTCGGC

         GTGGCTGC          GGAGGCACCA
         GGTCCCCCTT        AGCTGACCGT
         CTTCGATTAC        GCTGGGCCAG CC
         TGGGGCCAGG        TAAGGCCG
         GCACCCTGGT        CTCCCTCCGT
         GACAGTGTCCTCC     GACCCTG
HL161B 3 CAACTGTTGC     13 TCTTACGTGC
         TCCAGGAATC CG-    TGACCCAGTC CC
         GTCCTGGT          CCTCCGTG TC
         CTTGTAAAGC        CGTGGCTC
         CATCTGAGAC        CTGGCCAGAC
         TCTCTCCCTT AC-    CGCCAGAATC AC
         CTGTACCG          CTGTGGCG
         TTAGCGGAGG        GCAACAACAT CG
         AAGTCTTTCC        GCTCCAAG TC
         TCAAGCTTCT CC-    CGTGCACT
         TACTGGGT          GGTATCAGCA
         GTGGATCAGA        GAAGCCCGGC
         CAGCCTCCCG        CAGGCCCCCG
         GAAAAGGGTT        TGCTGGTGGT
         GGAGTGGATT        GTACGACGAC TC
         GGCACAATAT AC-    CGACCGGC
         TACTCCGG          CCTCTGGCAT CC
         CAACACTTAC        CTGAGCGG
         TATAACCCCA GC-    TTCTCCGCCT
         CTGAAGAG          CCAACTCCGG
         CAGGCTGACT        CAACACCGCC AC
         ATCTCTGTCG        CCTGACCA
         ACACCAGTAA        TCTCCAGAGT
         AAATCACTTT        GGAAGCCGGC
         TCTCTGAATC        GACGAGGCCG AC
         TGTCTTCAGT        TACTACTG
         GACCGCAGCC        CCAAGTGTGG
         GACACCGCCG TG-    GACTCCTCCT CC
         TATTATTG          GACCACGT
         CGCTCGGCGC GC-    GGTGTTCGGC
         CGGGATTC          GGAGGCACCA

          TGACAGGCTA        AGCTGACCGT
          TCTGGATTCA        GCTGGGCCAG CC
          TGGGGCCAGG        TAAGGCCG
          GGACATTGGT        CTCCCTCCGT
          TACAGTGTCT AGT    GACCCTG
HL161BK 5 CAGCTGCTGC TG- 15 TCTTACGTGC
          CAAGAATC CG-      TGACCCAGTC CC
          GCCCTGGC          CCTCCGTG TC
          CTGGTGAAAC        CGTGGCTC
          CCTCCGAGAC        CTGGCCAGAC
          ACTGTCCCTG AC-    CGCCAGAATC AC
          CTGCACCG          CTGTGGCG
          TGTCCGGCGG        GCAACAACAT CG
          CTCCCTGTCC        GCTCCAAG TC
          TCCAGCTTCT CC-    CGTGCACT
          TACTGGGT          GGTATCAGCA
          CTGGATCCGG        GAAGCCCGGC
          CAGCCCCCTG        CAGGCCCCCG
          GCAAGGGCCT        TGCTGGTGGT
          GGAATGGATC        GTACGACGAC TC
          GGCACCATCT AC-    CGACCGGC
          TACTCCGG          CCTCTGGCAT CC
          CAACACCTAC        CTGAGCGG
          TACAACCCCA GC-    TTCTCCGCCT
          CTGAAGTC          CCAACTCCGG
          CCGGCTGACC        CAACACCGCC AC
          ATCTCCGTGG        CCTGACCA
          ACACCTCCAA        TCTCCAGAGT
          GAACCACTTC        GGAAGCCGGC
          AGCCTGAAGC        GACGAGGCCG AC
          TGTCCTCCGT        TACTACTG
          GACCGCCGCT        CCAAGTGTGG
          GACACCGCCG TG-    GACTCCTCCT CC
          TACTACTG          GACCACGT
          TGCCAGAAGG GC-    GGTGTTCGGC
          CGGCATCC          GGAGGCACCA
          TGACCGGCTA        AGCTGACCGT

         CCTGGACTCT        GCTGGGCCAG CC
         TGGGGCCAGG        TAAGGCCG
         GCACCCTGGT        CTCCCTCCGT
         GACAGTGTCCTCC     GACCCTG
HL161C 7 CAGGTGCAGC     17 GACATCCAGA
         TCGTGCAGTC CG-    TGACCCAGTC AC
         GCGCAGAG GT-      CATCATCC
         CAAAAAGC          CTTTCCGCAT CT
         CTGGTGCATC        GTCGGAGA
         TGTGAAAGTG        TAGAGTGACT AT
         AGTTGCAAGG        CACCTGCA
         CTAGCGGCTA        GGGCTTCTCA AG
         CACCTTTACC        GTATTTCC
         GGATGTTATA TG-    AACTACCTCG
         CATTGGGT          CCTGGTTCCA
         ACGCCAAGCC CC-    GCAAAAGCCA
         CGGACAAG          GGTAAAGCCC
         GCTTGGAATG        CAAAGAGCTT
         GATGGGGCGT AT-    GATCTACGCC
         CAACCCAA          GCTTCTAGTC
         ACTCTGGCGG        TGCAGAGTGG
         GACTAATTAC GC-    AGTTCCTAGT
         CCAGAAGT          AAGTTCTCCG
         TTCAGGGAAG        GCTCTGGCAG TG
         GGTGACTATG        GCACAGAT TT
         ACAAGGGACA        TACCTTGA
         CATCCATATC        CCATTTCCAG
         CACCGCTTAT        CCTGCAGTCT
         ATGGACCTGT        GAGGATTTCG
         CTCGACTGCG        CTACCTACTA
         GTCTGATGAT        TTGTCAGCAG
         ACAGCCGTTT AT-    TATGACAGCT
         TACTGCGC CA-      ATCCCCCCAC
         GAGACTAC          ATTTGGGGGG
         AGCGGATGGA        GGCACTAAGG TG
         GCTTCGATTA        GAGATAAA

         TTGGGGGCAG        ACGGACAGTG
         GGTACTTTGG        GCTGCCCCTT CT
         TCACAGTTTC        GTCTTTAT T
         AAGT
HL161D 9 CAGCTGCAGT     19 AGCTATGAGC
         TGCAGGAGTC AG-    TGACCCAGCC
         GCCCCGGT          TCTGAGCGTA
         TTGGTTAAGC        TCTGTCGCTC
         CTTCTGAAAC        TCGGCCAGAC
         CCTTTCTCTC        AGCCAGAATT AC
         ACATGCACAG        CTGTGGCG
         TATCCGGTGG        GCAATAACAT AG
         CTCCATCTCC        GATCCAAA
         AGTTCAAGTT AC-    AATGTTCACT
         TACTGGGG          GGTATCAGCA
         ATGGATCCGG        AAAACCTGGC
         CAACCCCCAG        CAAGCTCCCG
         GAAAAGGGCT        TGCTCGTGAT
         GGAGTGGATT        CTACCGGGAC TC
         GGCAATATAT AT-    TAACCGAC
         TACTCTGG          CCAGTGGAAT CC
         GTCCACCTAT        CCGAACGC TT
         TACAACCCTT CC-    TAGCGGTT
         CTGATGAG          CCAACTCTGG
         TAGAGTGACC        AAATACAGCT
         ATCAGCGTGG        ACTCTGACTA
         ACACAAGCAA        TCTCCAGGGC
         AAACCAATTC        TCAGGCCGGG
         AGCCTGAAGC        GATGAGGCCG AT
         TTTCTAGCGT        TACTACTG
         GACCGCTGCC        CCAGGTGTGG
         GACACAGCTG TC-    GACTCAAGCA
         TATTACIG          CAGTGGTCTT CG
         TGCCCGCCAG CT-    GCGGAGGT AC
         TAGTTATA          CAAGTTGA CT
         ACTGGAATGA        GTTCTTGG
         TAGGCTGTTT        GCAGCCAAAG GC-

              GATTACTGGG CGCACCTT
              GCCAGGGGAC CAGTGACCCTG
              TCTCGTTACA
              GTCAGCAGC
[176]
[177] Table 2

[Table 2]
Amino acid sequences of heavy-chain and light-chain variable domains of selected
human FcRn antibodies
 Antibody name  Heavy-chain variable domain        Light-chain variable domain
                sequence                           sequence
                SEQ ID                             SEQ
                NO.                                ID
                                                   NO.
 HL161A         2        EVQLLESGGG                12      SYVLTQPPSV
                         LVQPGGSLRL                        SVAPGQTARI
                         SCAASEFTFG                        TCGGNNIGST
                         SCVMTWVRQA                        SVHWYQQKPG
                         PGKGLEWVSV IS-                    QAPVLVVHDD
                         GSGGSTYY                          SDRPSGIPER FS
                         ADSVKGRFTI                        GSNSGNTA
                         SRDNSKNTLY                        TLTISRVEAG
                         LQMNSLRAED                        DEADYYCQVR
                         TAVYYCAKTP                        DSSSDHVIFG
                         WWLRSPFFDY                        GGTKLTVLGQ
                         WGQGTLVTVSS                       PKAAPSVTL
 HL161B         4        QLLLQESGPG                14      SYVLTQSPSV
                         LVKPSETLSL                        SVAPGQTARI
                         TCTVSGGSLS SS-                    TCGGNNIGSK
                         FSYWVWIR                          SVHWYQQKPG
                         QPPGKGLEWI                        QAPVLVVYDD
                         GTIYYSGNTY                        SDRPSGIPER
                         YNPSLKSRLT                        FSASNSGNTA
                         ISVDTSKNHF                        TLTISRVEAG
                         SLNLSSVTAA                        DEADYYCQVW
                         DTAVYYCARR AG-                    DSSSDHVVFG
                         ILTGYLDS                          GGTKLTVLGQ
                         WGQGTLVTVSS                       PKAAPSVTL
 HL161BK        6        QLLLQESGPG                16      SYVLTQSPSV
                         LVKPSETLSL                        SVAPGQTARI
                         TCTVSGGSLS SS-                    TCGGNNIGSK
                         FSYWVWIR                          SVHWYQQKPG

                  QPPGKGLEWI        QAPVLVVYDD
                  GTIYYSGNTY        SDRPSGIPER
                  YNPSLKSRLT        FSASNSGNTA
                  ISVDTSKNHF        TLTISRVEAG
                  SLKLSSVTAA        DEADYYCQVW
                  DTAVYYCARR AG-    DSSSDHVVFG
                  ILTGYLDS          GGTKLTVLGQ
                  WGQGTLVTVSS       PKAAPSVTL
      HL161C   8  QVQLVQSGAE     18 DIQMTQSPSS
                  VKKPGASVKV        LSASVGDRVT
                  SCKASGYTFT        ITCRASQGIS NY
                  GCYMHWVRQA        LAWFQQKP
                  PGQGLEWMGR        GKAPKSLIYA
                  INPNSGGTNY        ASSLQSGVPS KF
                  AQKFQGRVTM        SGSGSGTD
                  TRDTSISTAY        FTLTISSLQS ED
                  MDLSRLRSDD        FATYYCQQ
                  TAVYYCARDY SG-    YDSYPPTFGG
                  WSFDYWGQ          GTKVEIKRTV
                  GTLVTVSS          AAPSVFI
      HL161D   10 QLQLQESGPG     20 SYELTQPLSV
                  LVKPSETLSL        SVALGQTARI
                  TCTVSGGSIS        TCGGNNIGSK
                  SSSYYWGWIR        NVHWYQQKPG
                  QPPGKGLEWI        QAPVLVIYRD
                  GNIYYSGSTY        SNRPSGIPER FS
                  YNPSLMSRVT        GSNSGNTA
                  ISVDTSKNQF        TLTISRAQAG
                  SLKLSSVTAA        DEADYYCQVW
                  DTAVYYCARQ        DSSTVVFGGG
                  LSYNWNDRLF DY-    TKLTVLGQPK
                  WGQGTLVT VSS      AAPSVTL
[178]
[179]  Table 3

      [Table 3]
      CDR sequences of heavy-chain and light-chain variable domains of selected human
      FcRn antibodies
       Antibody    Heavy-chain variable domain CDR       Light-chain variable domain CDR
                   CDR1         CDR2         CDR3        CDRI        CDR2        CDR3
       SEQID       21           22           23          24          25          26
       NO.
       HL161A      SCVMT        VISGSGG TPWWLR GGNNIGS DDSDRPS VRDSSSD
                                 STYYADS SPFFDY          TSVH                    HVI
                                VKG
       SEQ ID      27           28           29          30          31          32
       NO.
       HL161B(H FSYWV           TIYYSGN RAGILTG GGNNIGS DDSDRPS QVWDSS
       L161BK)                  TYYNPSL YLDS             KSVH                    SDHVV
                                 KS
       SEQID       33           34           35          36          37          38
       NO.
       HL161C      GCYMH        RINPNSG DYSGWS           RASQGIS     AASSLQS QQYDSY
                                 GTNYAQ      FDY         NYLA                    PPTF
                                 KFQG
       SEQ ID      39           40           41          42          43          44
       NO.
       HL161D      SYYWG        NIYYSGS      QLSYNW      GGNNIGS RDSNRPS QVWDSS
                                TYYNPSL NDRLFD           KNVH                    TVV
                                MS           Y
[180]
[181]   Example 4: Measurement of antigen binding affinity of
      HL161A/HL161B/HL161C/HL161D antibodies by SPR
[182]   The binding affinities of HL161A, HL161B, HL161C and HL161D antibodies by
      SPR were measured by immobilizing water-soluble hFcRn as a ligand onto a Proteon
      GLC chip (Bio-Rad) and measuring the affinity. Kinetic analysis was performed using
      a Proteon XPR36 system. shFcRn was immobilized on a GLC chip., and an antibody
      sample was allowed to react at a concentration of 5, and sensogram results were
      obtained. In kinetic analysis, a 1:1 Langmuir binding model was used, the analysis was
      repeated six times at each of pH 6.0 and pH 7.4, and the mean KD value was

      calculated. Following the immobilization step, the chip was activated under the
      conditions of EDAC/NHS 0.5X, 30 [L/min and 300 sec. For immobilization, shFcRn
      was diluted in acetate buffer (pH 5.5) to concentrations of 2 [tg/mL and 250 [tL, and
      the dilution was allowed to flow on the chip at a rate of 30 [tL/min. When an immobi
      lization level of 200-300 RU was reached, the reaction was stopped. Then, deactivation
      was performed using ethanolamine at a rate of 30 [L/min for 300 sec. Each of the
      HL161 antibodies was serially 2-fold diluted from a concentration of 10 nM to 5 nM,
      2.5 nM, 1.25 nM, 0.625 nM, 0.312 nM, etc., thereby preparing samples. Sample
      dilution was performed using IX PBST (pH 7.4) or IX PBST (pH 6.0) at each pH. For
      sample analysis, association was performed at 50 [L/min for 200 sec, and the dis
      sociation step was performed at 50 [tL/min for 600 sec, after which regeneration was
      performed using glycine buffer (pH 2.5) at 100 [tL/min for 18 sec. The kinetic analysis
      of each sample was repeated six times, and then the mean antigen binding affinity
      (KD) was measured. The kinetic parameters of the antibodies, which resulted from the
      SPR analysis, are shown in Table 4 below (FIGS. 2a to 2h).
[183]
[184]   Table 4
      [Table 4]
      Results of kinetic analysis of antibody by human FcRn-immobilized SPR
       Antibody     pH 6.0                                pH 7.4
                    k.. (M-Is-1) koff (s0)   KD (M)       k.. (M-as-)  kor-f (s0)  KD (M)
       HL161A        1.81x10  6  3.26x10-4   1.80x 10-10  1.32x 106    3.27x104    2.47xl0- 1 0
       HL161B       9.12x10 5    7.35x10 4   8.07xl10-0   7.10xl0       1.25x10- 3 1.76x10
       HL161C        1.74x10 6   3.32x10-4   1.91xl0- 1 0 1.36x10 6    3.16x10 4   2.32x10- 1 0
       HL161D       9.70x10 5    1.38x10-3   1.43x10'     6.99x10 5    1.24x10- 3  1.78x10
       hIgG1        3.2x 105     4.6x10 4    l.4x10-'     No           No binding No
                                                          binding                  binding
[185]
[186]    Example 5: Analysis of binding of HL161A/HL161B antibodies to human FcRn by
      FACS
[187]    Using human FcRn-expressing stable HEK293 cells, binding to FcRn at each pH was
      analyzed using a FACS system. The FcRn binding test using FACS was performed in
      reaction buffer at pH 6.0 and pH 7.4. Specifically, 100,000 human FcRn-expressing
      stable HEK293 cells were washed with PBS buffer and centrifuged in a table micro
      centrifuge at 4500 rpm for 5 minutes to obtain cell pellets. The antibody was added to

      100 tl of pH 6.0 or pH 7.4 PBS/10 mM EDTA. The remaining cells pellets were
      suspended in reaction buffer, and cell counting was performed. 10 [tL of the cell
      suspension was added to a slide, and the number of the cells in the cell suspension was
      counted in a TC1O system, after which the cell suspension was diluted with reaction
      buffer to a cell concentration of 2 x 106 cells/mL. Each antibody sample was diluted to
      500 nM. For analysis at pH 6.0, the dilution was diluted to 20 nM in a 96-well v
      bottom plate, and 50 [tL of the dilution was added to each well. For analysis at pH 7.4,
      500 nM antibody sample was diluted by 3-fold serial dilution, and analyzed at a con
      centration ranging from 250 nM to 0.11 nM. 50 [tL of the cells diluted to 2 x 106 cells/
      mL were added to each well and suspended. The plate was mounted in a rotator at 4'C
      and rotated at an angle of 15' and 10 rpm for 90 minutes. After completion of the
      reaction, the plate was taken out of the rotator and centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 10
      minutes, and the supernatant was removed. A488 anti-hIgG goat antibody was diluted
      at 1:200 in reaction buffer, and 100 [iL of the antibody dilution was added to each well
      and suspended. Next, the plate was mounted again in a rotator at 4'C and rotated at an
      angle of 150 and 10 rpm for 90 minutes. After completion of the reaction, the plate was
      taken out of the rotator and centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 10 minutes, and the su
      pernatant was removed. After the washing procedure was performed once more, 100
      [tL of reaction buffer was added to each well to dissolve the cell pellets, and the plate
      was transferred into a blue test tube. Next, 200 [tL of reaction buffer was added to each
      well, and then measurement was performed in FACS. The FACS measurement was
      performed under the following conditions: FS 108 volts, SS 426 volts, FL1 324 volts,
      FL2 300 volts. These cells were analyzed by FACS using BD FACSDivaTM v6.1.3
      software (BD Bioscience). The results were expressed as Mean Fluorescence Intensity
      (MFI) (FIG. 3). The HL161A and HL161B antibodies showed MFI values of 10.59
      and 8.34, respectively, at a concentration of 10 nM and pH 6.0. At pH 7.4 and a con
      centration of 0.11-250 nM, the antibodies showed EC50 (Effective Concentration
      50%) values of 2.46 nM and 1.20 nM, respectively, as analyzed by 4 parameter logistic
      regression using the MFI values.
[188]
[189]   Example 6: Analysis of blocking effects of HL161A/HL161B antibodies by FACS
[190]   HEK293 cells that express hFcRn on the cell surface were treated with the two an
      tibodies analyzed for their binding affinity for cell surface human FcRn, and the
      blocking effects of the antibodies were examined based on a reduction in the binding
      of Alexa-Fluo-488-labelled hIgG1. The analysis procedure was performed in the
      following manner.
[191]   2 mL of 1 x TE was added to each type of naive HEK293 cells and human FcRn
      overexpressing stable HEK293 cells, which were incubated in a 5% CO 2 incubator at

      37 0 C for 1 min. The cells were recovered from the flasks, and 8 mL of reaction buffer
      (pH 6.0) was added thereto, after which the cells were transferred into a 50 mL
      comical tube. The cell suspension was centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 5 minutes to
      remove the supernatant, and 1 mL of reaction buffer (pH 6.0) was added to each cell
      pellet. Then, the cell suspension was transferred into a fresh 1.5 mL Eppendorf tube.
      Next, the cell suspension was centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 5 minutes, and the su
      pernatant was removed. Then, reaction buffer (pH 6.0) was added to the remaining cell
      pellet, and the cell number of the cell suspension was counted. Finally, the cell
      suspension was diluted with reaction buffer to a cell concentration of 2.5 x 106 cells/
      mL.
[192]    Each antibody sample was diluted to 400 nM, and then diluted by 4-fold serial
      dilution in a 96-well v-bottom plate. 50 [iL of the sample diluted to a final con
      centration of 200 nM to 0.01 nM was added to each well. Then, 10 [tL of
      Alex488-hIgG1 diluted with 1 [M reaction buffer (pH 6.0) was each well. Finally, 40
      [tL of cells diluted to a cell concentration of 2.5 x 106 cells/mL were added to each
      well and suspended. The plate was mounted in a rotator at 4'C and rotated at an angle
      of 150 and 10 rpm for 90 minutes. After completion of the reaction, the plate was taken
      out of the rotator, and centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 10 minutes to remove the su
      pernatant. 100 [tL of reaction buffer was added to each well to dissolve the cell pellets,
      and the plate was transferred into a blue test tube. Then, 200 [CL of reaction buffer was
      added to each well, and measurement was performed in FACS. The FACS mea
      surement was performed under the following conditions: FS 108 volts, SS 426 volts,
      FLI 324 volts, FL2 300 volts. These cells were analyzed by FACS using BD
      FACSDiva'm v6.1.3 software (BD Bioscience). The results were expressed as mean
      fluorescence intensity (MFI). The MFI of the test group was processed after sub
      tracting the measured MFI value of the cells alone (background signal). The
      percentage of the MFI of the competitor-containing tube relative to 100% of a control
      tube (Alexa Fluor 488 alone, and no competitor) was calculated.
[193]
[194]                  MFI of hlcRn stable (Competitor + A488-hIgGl) - MFI of lHEK293(A488-hIgG1)
                            MFI of hFcRn stable (A488-hIgG1)-MF1 of HEK293(A488-hIgG1)
[195]
[196]   When the MFI was lower than the MFI of the human IgGI competitor-containing
      tube, the competitor antibody was determined to have high competition rate. Based on
      the measured blocking effects (%) of the HL161A and HL161B antibodies under the
      conditions of pH 6.0 and concentration of 0.01-200 nM, 4-parameter logistic re
      gression was performed. As a result, it was shown that the HL161A and HL161B an
      tibodies showed IC50 (Inhibitory Concentration 50%) values of 0.92 nM and 2.24 nM.,

      respectively (FIG. 4).
[197]
[198]   Example 7: Test for effects of HL161A/HL161B in mFcRn -/- hFCRN transgenic 32
      (Tg32) mice
[199]   Human IgG was injected into human FcRn-expressing Tg32 (hFcRn+/+, h 2m+/+,
      mFcRn-/-, m[32m-/-) mice (Jackson Laboratory), and then HL161A and HL161B
      together with human IgG were administered to the mice in order to examine whether
      the antibodies would influence the catabolism of human IgG.
[200]   HL161A and HL161B antibodies and human IgG (Greencross, IVglobulinS) were
      dispensed for 4-day administration at dose of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg and stored, and PBS
      (phosphate buffered saline) buffer (pH 7.4) was used as a vehicle and a 20 mg/kg IgGI
      control. Human FcRn Tg32 mice were adapted for about 7 days and given water and
      feed ad libitum. Temperature (23  2 C), humidity (55  5%) and
      12-hr-light/12-hr-dark cycles were automatically controlled. Each animal group
      consisted of 4 mice. To use human IgG as a tracer, biotin-conjugated hIgG was
      prepared using a kit (Pierce, Cat # . 21327). At 0 hour., 5 mg/kg of biotin-hIgG and 495
      mg/kg of human IgG were administered intraperitoneally to saturate IgG in vivo. At
      24, 48, 72 and 96 hours after administration of biotin-IgG, each drug was injected in
      traperitoneally at doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg once a day. For blood collection, the
      mice were lightly anesthetized with Isoflurane (JW Pharmaceutical), and then blood
      was collected from the retro-orbital plexus using a heparinized Micro-hematocrit
      capillary tube (Fisher) at 24, 48, 72, 96, 120 and 168 hours after administration of
      biotin-IgG. At 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours, the drug was administered after blood
      collection. Immediately after 0.1 mL of whole blood was received in an Eppendorf
      tube, plasma was separated by centrifugation and stored in a deep freezer (Thermo) at
      70'C until analysis.
[201]   The level of biotin-hlgGl in the collected blood was analyzed by ELISA in the
      following manner. 100 [d of Neutravidin (Pierce, 31000) was added to a 96-well plate
      (Costar, Cat. No: 2592) to a concentration of 1.0 [g/ml, and then coated at 4'C for 16
      hours. The plate was washed three times with buffer A (0.05 % Tween-20, 10 mM
      PBS, pH 7.4), and then incubated in 1% BSA-containing PBS (pH 7.4) buffer at room
      temperature for 2 hours. Next, the plate was washed three times with buffer A, and
      then a Neutravidin plate was prepared with 0.5 % BSA-containing PBS (pH 7.4) buffer
      so as to correspond to 1 [tg/ml. A blood sample was serially diluted 500-1000-fold in
      buffer B (100 mM MES, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % BSA IgG-free, 0.05 % Tween-20., pH
      6.0), and 150 [ of the dilution was added to each well of the plate. The added sample
      was allowed to react at room temperature for 1 hour. Next, the plate was washed three
      times with buffer A, and then 200 pl of 1 nM HRP-conjugated anti-human IgG goat

      antibody was added to each well and incubated at 37'C for 2 hours. Next, the plate was
      washed three times with ice cold buffer B, and then 100 [d of the substrate solution
      tetramethylbenzidine (RnD, Cat. No: DY999) was added to each well and allowed to
      react at room temperature for 15 minutes. 50 [ of 1.0 M sulfuric acid solution
      (Samchun, Cat. No: S2129) was added to each well to stop the reaction, after which the
      absorbance at 450 nm was measured.
[202]   The concentration of biotin-IgG after 24 hours (approximately Tmax of biotin-IgG in
      mice; before the occurrence of catabolism of biotin-IgG) was set at 100%, and the per
      centages of the concentration at other time points relative to the concentration at 24
      hours are shown in FIG. 10. The results of the analysis indicated that the half-lives of
      the vehicle and the 20 mg/kg IgGl control were 103 hours and 118 hours, respectively.
      However, the blood IgG half-life of the HL161A antibody, which showed excellent
      human FcRn binding affinity and blocking effect in the in vitro analysis and the fastest
      IgG catabolism in the human FcRn transgenic Tg32 mice, were 30, 23 and 18 hours at
      varying doses. In addition, the HL161B antibody showed IgG half-lives of 41, 22 and
      21 hours. This suggests that the pH-independent and Fc-non-competitive antibodies for
      hFcRn have the effect of increasing the catabolism of endogenous antibodies (FIGS. 5a
      and 5b).
[203]
[204]   Example 8: Test for effects of HL161A/HL161B in monkeys
[205]   Using cynomolgus monkeys having a homology of 96% to human FcRn, the monkey
      IgG, IgA, IgM and albumin levels by administration of the HL161A and HL161B an
      tibodies were analyzed, and the pharmacokinetics (PK) profiles of the antibodies were
      analyzed.
[206]    1) Analysis of change in expression of immunoglobulin G in monkey blood
[207]   First, a change in monkey IgG was measured by ELISA analysis. 100 [tL of anti
      human IgG Fc antibody (BethylLab, A80-104A) was loaded into each well of a
      96-well plate (Costar, Cat. No: 2592) to a concentration of 4.0 [tg/mL, and then coated
      at 4'C for 16 hours. The plate was washed three times with washing buffer (0.05%
      Tween-20, 10mM PBS, pH 7.4), and then incubated with 1% BSA-containing PBS
      (pH7.4) buffer at room temperature for 2 hours. The standard monkey IgG was used at
      a concentration of 3.9-500 ng/mL, and the blood sample was diluted 80,000-fold in 1%
      BSA-containing PBS (pH7.4) buffer, and the dilution was loaded into the plate and
      incubated at room temperature for 2 hours. Next, the plate was washed three times with
      washing buffer, and then 100 [tL of a 20,000-fold dilution of anti-hIgG antibody
      (Biorad, 201005) was loaded into the plate and allowed to react at room temperature
      for 1 hour. After each plate was washed, 100 [L of the substrate solution 3,3',5,5'
      tetramethylbenzidine (RnD, Cat. No: DY999) was loaded into the plate and allowed to

      react at room temperature for 7 minutes, after which 50 [tL of 1.0 M sulfuric acid
      solution (Samchun, Cat. No: S2129) was added to each well to stop the reaction. For
      analysis, absorbance (OD) was measured using a 450 nm and 540 nm absorbance
      reader (MD, Model: VersaMax). As a result, it was shown that, when each of the
      HL161A and HL161B antibodies was administered intravenously into cynomolgus
      monkey at doses of 5 and 20 mg/kg once a week, the monkey IgG level decreased in a
      dose-dependent manner, and the HL161 antibodies effectively blocked the IgG-FcRn
      interaction. 5 mg/kg of HL161A reduced the monkey IgG level to 47.1% on day 9, and
      20 mg/kg of HL161A reduced the monkey IgG level to 29.6% on day 10. 5 mg/kg of
      HL161B reduced the monkey IgG level to 53.6% on day 10, and 20 mg/kg of HL161B
      reduced the monkey IgG level to 31% on day 9. suggesting that the two antibodies
      showed similar results (Table 5 and FIGS. 6a and 6c). In addition, the change in
      monkey IgG level by intravenous administration of HL161A and HL161B was
      compared between individuals, and as a result, it was shown that the monkey IgG level
      was decreased between individuals in a very similar way.
[208]
[209]   Table 5

      [Table 5]
      Change (%) in monkey IgG level by administration of HL161A and HL161B
       Day           Vehicle      HL161A                       HL161B
                                  5 mg/kg        20 mg/kg      5 mg/kg        20 mg/kg
       0 day         100.00.0     100.00.0     100.00.0      100.00.0     100.00.0
       0.5 day       99.04.8      81.51.8      101,59.0     94.35.4       96,23.0
       1 day         97.615.9    67.22.0       86.211.9     83.924.7      94.17.0
       2 day         97.86.2     63.03.3       74.214       73.711.3      71.75.4
       3 day         104.513.1   61.88.0       59.211.0     68.39.3       61.36.0
       4 day         100.916.7   55.34.1       45.14.6      65.512.2      44,35.6
       5 day         103.412.5   60.88.3       38.84.9      65.011.9      38.43.7
       6 day         113.38.5    64.911.7      39.76.4      66.411.3      39.05.4
       7 day         116,923.3   58.74.7       39.65.4      61.48.0       37.53.2
       7.5 day       92.410.4    51.27.2       38.77.8      62.88.3       39.30.4
       8 day         94.68.7     48.09.3       36.15.3      60.77.5       39.65.9
       9 day         117.614.3   47.14.4       33.85.0      54.36.9       31,03.1
       10 day        115.116.7   49.78.9       29.65.8      53.64.9       32.84.3
       11 day        114.618.9   47.74.2       30.46.5      54,74.2       39.99.1
       12 day        109.513.1   51.73.1       32.95.7      56.54.7       46.79.1
       13 day        111,121,2   52,96.4       35.79.2      58.73.8       45.47.6
       14 day        128.917.7   54,74.2       37.89,6      60.64.2       53.811.3
       17 day        95.66.6     59.510.3      40.27.4      56.74.4       48.410.0
       20 day        92.58.4     62,46.7       47.68.9      61.86.0       54.09.5
       23 day        107.115.2   71.96.5       61.813.3     64.94.4       56.86.0
       26 day        104.05.6    77.76.8       72.222,4     70,87.4       62.45.8
       29 day        102.48.3     81.46.7      77.920.5     74.85.1       65.410.8
[210]
[211]   2) Analysis of pharmacokinetic profiles of HL161A/HL161B in monkey blood
[212]   The time-dependent pharmacokinetic profiles (PK) of HL161A and HL161B after in
      travenous administration were analyzed by competitive ELISA. Specifically, a solution
      of 2 [tg/mL of Neutravidin was prepared, and 100 [L of the solution was coated on

      each well of a 96-well plate, and then incubated at 4'C for 18 hours. The plate was
      washed three time with 300 [LL of wash buffer (0.05% Tween 20 containing 10mM
      PBS, pH 7.4), and then each well was incubated with 1% BSA-containing PBS (pH
      7.4) buffer at 25'C for 2 hours. Biotinylated hFcRn was diluted with PBS to 1 [tg/mL.
      and then 100 [tL of the dilution was added to each well of the 96-well plate and
      incubated at 25'C for 1 hour. Next, the plate was washed three times with 300 [tL of
      wash buffer to remove unbound hFcRn, and then a standard sample (0.156-20 ng/mL)
      was added to each well and incubated at 25'C for 2 hours. Next, the plate was washed
      three times with wash buffer, and 100 [L of a 1:10,000 dilution of detection antibody
      in PBS was added to each well and incubated at 25'C for 1.5 hours. The plate was
      finally washed three times, and 100 [L of TMB solution was added to each buffer and
      incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes, after which 50 [L of 1M sulfuric acid as
      a reaction stop solution was added to each well to stop the reaction. Next, the ab
      sorbance at 450 nm was measured with a microplate reader. The analysis results for
      HL161A and HL161B are shown in Table 6 below, and as can be seen therein, the
      pharmacokinetic profile of the antibodies increased in a dose-dependent manner. The
      half-life (T1/2) of the antibodies was about 6-12 days, which was shorter than that of
      generally known antibodies. In addition, it was shown that the half-life, when
      observing overally. AUC and Cmax of HL161B were higher than those of HL161A
      (FIGS. 7a and 7b).
[213]
[214]   Table 6
      [Table 6]
      Analysis results for pharmacokinetic profiles of HL161A and HL161B at varying
      doses
       Ab (Dose)         Day               Cmax(mg/ml)      AUC(mg/ml.hr) T112(hr)
       HL161A(5 mg/ 0-7                    157 31          1,601 501        6.9 0.9
       kg)               7-14              157  25         1,388  334       10.3  2.8
       HL161A(20         0-7               692 138         13,947 2,459     9.0 0.6
       mg/kg)            7-14              724 125         12,699 2,114 7.6 1.6
       HL161B(5 mg/ 0-7                    178  56         2,551  1,356     7.9  1.3
       kg)               7-14              187 9           2,772 466        9.4 0.5
       HL161B(20         0-7               823 38          21,867 1,088     11.7 1.0
       mg/kg)            7-14              868 66          16,116 1,501     6.8 0.9

[215]
[216]   3) Analysis of change in IgM and IgA antibody levels in monkey blood
[217]   ELISA analysis for measuring IgM and IgA levels in monkey blood was performed
      in a manner similar to the ELISA method for measuring IgG levels. Specifically, 100
      [tL of anti-monkey IgM antibody (Alpha Diagnostic, 70033) or IgA antibody (Alpha
      Diagnostic, 70043) was added to each well of a 96-well plate to a concentration of 2.0
      [tg/mL, and then coated at 4'C for 16 hours. The plate was washed three times with
      wash buffer (0.05% Tween-20 containing 10mM PBS, pH 7.4), and then incubated
      with 1% BSA-containing PBS (pH7.4) buffer at room temperature for 2 hours. The
      standard monkey IgM was analyzed at a concentration of 7.8-1,000 ng/mL, and IgA
      was analyzed at 15.6-2,000 ng/mL. The blood sample was diluted 10,000- or
      20,000-fold in 1% BSA-containing PBS (pH7.4) buffer, and the dilution was added to
      each well and incubated at room temperature for 2 hours. Next, the plate was washed
      three times with wash buffer, and then 100 [tL of a 5,000-fold dilution of each of anti
      monkey IgM secondary antibody (Alpha Diagnostic, 70031) and anti-monkey IgA
      secondary antibody (KPL, 074-11-011) was added to each well and allowed to react at
      room temperature for 1 hour. The plate was finally washed three times, and 100 [CL of
      the substrate solution 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (RnD, Cat. No: DY999) was
      added to each well and allowed to react at room temperature for 7 minutes. Next, 50
      [tL of 1.0 M sulfur solution (Samchun, Cat. No: S2129) was added to each well to stop
      the reaction. The absorbance of each well was measured with a 450 and 540 nm ab
      sorbance reader (MD, Model: VersaMax).
[218]
[219]   4) Analysis of change in albumin levels in monkey blood
[220]   The analysis of a change in albumin levels in monkey blood was performed using a
      commercial ELISA kit (Assaypro, Cat. No: EKA2201-1). Briefly, monkey serum as a
      test sample was 4000-fold diluted, and 25 [tL of the dilution was added to each well of
      a 96-well plate coated with an antibody capable of binding to monkey albumin. 25 [tL
      of biotinylated monkey albumin solution was added to each well and incubated at 25'C
      for 2 hours. The plate was washed three times with 200 [tL of wash buffer, and then 50
      [tL of a 1:100 dilution of streptavidin-peroxidase conjugated antibody was added to
      each well and incubated at 25'C for 30 minutes. The plate was finally washed three
      times, and then 50 [iL of a substrate was added to each well and incubated at room
      temperature for 10 minutes. Next, 50 [tL of a reaction stop solution was added to each
      well, and the absorbance at 450 nm was measured. As a result, the clear changes in
      monkey IgM, IgA and albumin levels by administration of the HL161A and HL161B
      antibodies were not observed throughout the test period (FIGS. 8a to 8c). Thus, it is
      concluded that the HL161 antibody is involved only in IgG levels and does not

      influence the levels of IgM and IgA, suggesting that it will have no significant
      influence on the decrease in immunity by a decrease in immunoglobulin levels. In
      addition, no significant change in the monkey albumin level was observed throughout
      the test period, suggesting that the HL161A and HL161B antibodies specifically block
      only the IgG-FcRn interactions.
[221]
[222]   5) Analysis of blood biochemical levels and urinary components
[223]   Finally, blood biochemical analysis and urinary analysis by administration of the an
      tibodies were performed using samples on day 14 of the test. Blood biochemical
      markers, including aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
      alkaline phosphatase (ALP), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), total bilirubin (TBIL),
      glucose (GLU), total cholesterol (TCHO), triglyceride (TG), total protein (TP),
      albumin (Alb), albumin/globulin (A/G), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine (CRE),
      inorganic phosphorus (IP), calcium (Ca), sodium (Na), potassium (K) and chloride
      (Cl), were analyzed using the Hitachi 7180 system. In addition, markers for urinary
      analysis, including leukocyte (LEU), nitrate (NIT), urobilinogen (URO), protein
      (PRO), pH, occult blood (BLO), specific gravity (SG), ketone body (KET), nilirubin
      (BIL), glucose (GLU), and ascorbic acid (ASC), were analyzed using the Mission
      U120 system. Although there were slight changes in the levels, the measured levels
      were included in the normal level ranges of cynomolgus monkeys.
[224]   Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to the
      specific features, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that this description is
      only for purposes of illustration and does not limit the scope of the present disclosure.
      Thus, the substantial scope of the present disclosure will be defined by the appended
      claims and equivalents thereof.

                                              46
CLAIMS
1.       An isolated anti-FcRn antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof comprising:
a heavy chain variable region comprising CDR1 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID
No: 21, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 22, and CDR3 comprising
amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 23; and a light chain variable region comprising CDR1
comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 24, CDR2 comprising amino acid sequence
of SEQ ID No: 25, and CDR3 comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 26.
2.       An isolated anti-FcRn antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof comprising:
a heavy chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 2 and a light
chain variable region comprising amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 12.
3.       The antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof according to claims 1 or 2, wherein
the antibody is monoclonal antibody, murine antibody, chimeric antibody, humanized
antibody or human antibody.
4.       The antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof according to claims 1 or 2, wherein
the antibody or fragment thereof comprises full-length antibodies, Fab, F(ab')2, Fd, Fv, scFv,
domain antibodies, dual-specific antibodies, bibodies, minibodies, tribodies, scap (sterol
regulatory binding protein cleavage activating protein), bispecific antibodies, trispecific
antibodies,   multispecific  antibodies,   diabodies,  triabodies,   tetrabodies,  intrabodies,
nanobodies,     small     modular     immunopharmaceuticals        (SMIP),     binding-domain
immunoglobulin fusion proteins, camelized antibodies or VHH containing antibodies.
5.       The antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof according to claims 1 or 2, wherein

                                                47
the antibody comprises IgD antibodies, IgE antibodies, IgM antibodies, IgG1 antibodies,
IgG2 antibodies, IgG3 antibodies, IgG4 antibodies.
6.       A Polynucleotide encoding the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof
according to any one of claims I to 5.
7.       A Polynucleotide encoding an anti-FcRn antibody or antigen-binding fragment
thereof comprising SEQ ID No: 1 encoding a heavy chain variable region and SEQ ID No: 11
encoding a light chain variable region.
8.       A recombinant expression vector comprising the polynucleotide according to claims 6
or 7.
9.       A host cell, which is transected with the recombinant expression vector of claim 8.
10. A method of preparing an anti-FcRn antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof
comprising:
         culturing the host cell of claim 9 and producing the antibody therefrom; and
         isolating and purifying the produced antibody to recover the antibody binding
specifically to FcRn.
11.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antigen-binding fragment
thereof according to any one of claims 1 to 5, and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier.

                                               48
12.       A method of treating a patient suffering from an autoimmune disease, comprising
administering the composition of claim 11 to said patient.
13.       The method of claim 12, wherein the autoimmune disease is one selected from the
group consisting of immune      neutropenia, Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, epilepsy, autoimmune
encephalitis, Isaac's syndrome, nevus syndrome, pemphigus vulgaris, Pemphigus foliaceus,
Bullous pemphigoid, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, pemphigoid gestationis, mucous
membrane pemphigoid, antiphospholipid syndrome, autoimmune anemia, autoimmune
Grave's disease, Goodpasture's syndrome, myasthenia gravis, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid
arthritis, lupus, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, lupus nephritis and membranous
nephropathy.
14.       A composition comprising the antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof
according to any one of claims 1 to 5 labelled with a detection label.
15.       A method of detecting FcRn in vitro comprising using the antibody or antigen
binding fragment thereof according to any one of claims 1 to 5.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                               PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <110>        HANALL BI OPHARMA CO. LTD.
              <120>        ANTI BODY BI NDI NG TO FCRN FOR TREATI NG AUTOI MMUNE DI SEASES
              <130>        PP- B1574
              <150>        US 61/ 986, 742
              <151>        2014- 04- 30
              <160>        44
              <170>        Kopat ent I n 2. 0
<removed-apn>
              <210>        1
              <211>        363
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv of HL161A
              <400>      1
              gaagt gc agc t gc t ggaat c c ggc ggaggc c t ggt gc agc c t ggc ggc t c t c t gagac t g             60
              t c c t gc gc c g c c t c c gagt t c ac c t t c ggc agc t gc gt ga t gac c t gggt c c gac aggc t   120
              c c c ggc aagg gc c t ggaat g ggt gt c c gt g at c t c c ggc t c c ggc ggc t c c ac c t ac t ac    180
              gc c gac t c t g t gaagggc c g gt t c ac c at c t c c c gggac a ac t c c aagaa c ac c c t gt ac    240
              c t gc agat ga ac t c c c t gc g ggc c gaggac ac c gc c gt gt ac t ac t gc gc c aagac c c c c      300
              t ggt ggc t gc ggt c c c c c t t c t t c gat t ac t ggggc c agg gc ac c c t ggt gac agt gt c c     360
              t cc                                                                                               363
              <210>        2
              <211>        121
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv of HL161A
              <400>     2
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
                 1                5                     10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl u Phe Thr Phe Gl y Ser Cy s
                            20                     25                   30
              Val Met Thr Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val
                       35                     40                       45
              Ser Val I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Al a As p Ser Val
                   50                     55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
               65                      70                      75                    80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                 85                     90                     95
              Al a Ly s Thr Pr o Tr p Tr p Leu Ar g Ser Pr o Phe Phe As p Ty r Tr p Gl y
                            100                     105                   110
                                                         Page 1

                                                         PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>        3
              <211>        363
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv of HL161B
<removed-apn>
              <400>         3
              c aac t gt t gc t c c aggaat c c ggt c c t ggt c t t gt aaagc c at c t gagac t c t c t c c c t t     60
              ac c t gt ac c g t t agc ggagg aagt c t t t c c t c aagc t t c t c c t ac t gggt gt ggat c aga      120
              c agc c t c c c g gaaaagggt t ggagt ggat t ggc ac aat at ac t ac t c c gg c aac ac t t ac           180
              t at aac c c c a gc c t gaagag c aggc t gac t at c t c t gt c g ac ac c agt aa aaat c ac t t t      240
              t c t c t gaat c t gt c t t c agt gac c gc agc c gac ac c gc c g t gt at t at t g c gc t c ggc gc   300
              gc c gggat t c t gac aggc t a t c t ggat t c a t ggggc c agg ggac at t ggt t ac agt gt c t          360
              agt                                                                                                 363
              <210>        4
              <211>        121
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv of HL161B
              <400>     4
              Gl n Leu Leu Leu Gl n Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Gl y Leu Val Ly s Pr o Ser Gl u
                 1                5                     10                     15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cy s Thr Val Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ser Ser
                           20                   25                    30
              Phe Ser Ty r Tr p Val Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u
                       35                       40                       45
              Tr p I l e Gl y Thr I l e Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y As n Thr Ty r Ty r As n Pr o Ser
                     50                       55                     60
              Leu Ly s Ser Ar g Leu Thr I l e Ser Val As p Thr Ser Ly s As n Hi s Phe
               65                    70                     75                     80
              Ser Leu As n Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Al a Al a As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r
                                85                   90                     95
              Cy s Al a Ar g Ar g Al a Gl y I l e Leu Thr Gl y Ty r Leu As p Ser Tr p Gl y
                             100                      105                    110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>        5
              <211>        363
              <212>        DNA
                                                                     Page 2

                                                          PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <213>         Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>         Hv of HL161BK
              <400>         5
              c agc t gc t gc t gc aagaat c c ggc c c t ggc c t ggt gaaac c c t c c gagac ac t gt c c c t g            60
              ac c t gc ac c g t gt c c ggc gg c t c c c t gt c c t c c agc t t c t c c t ac t gggt c t ggat c c gg   120
              c agc c c c c t g gc aagggc c t ggaat ggat c ggc ac c at c t ac t ac t c c gg c aac ac c t ac           180
<removed-apn>
              t ac aac c c c a gc c t gaagt c c c ggc t gac c at c t c c gt gg ac ac c t c c aa gaac c ac t t c       240
              agc c t gaagc t gt c c t c c gt gac c gc c gc t gac ac c gc c g t gt ac t ac t g t gc c agaagg          300
              gc c ggc at c c t gac c ggc t a c c t ggac t c t t ggggc c agg gc ac c c t ggt gac agt gt c c           360
              t cc                                                                                                    363
              <210>         6
              <211>         121
              <212>         PRT
              <213>         Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>         Hv of HL161BK
              <400>     6
              Gl n Leu Leu Leu Gl n Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Gl y Leu Val Ly s Pr o Ser Gl u
                 1                5                     10                     15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cy s Thr Val Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ser Ser
                           20                   25                    30
              Phe Ser Ty r Tr p Val Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u
                       35                       40                       45
              Tr p I l e Gl y Thr I l e Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y As n Thr Ty r Ty r As n Pr o Ser
                     50                       55                     60
              Leu Ly s Ser Ar g Leu Thr I l e Ser Val As p Thr Ser Ly s As n Hi s Phe
               65                    70                     75                     80
              Ser Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Al a Al a As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r
                                85                   90                     95
              Cy s Al a Ar g Ar g Al a Gl y I l e Leu Thr Gl y Ty r Leu As p Ser Tr p Gl y
                             100                      105                    110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>         7
              <211>         354
              <212>         DNA
              <213>         Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>         Hv of HL161C
              <400>       7
              c aggt gc agc t c gt gc agt c c ggc gc agag gt c aaaaagc c t ggt gc at c t gt gaaagt g                   60
                                                                Page 3

                                                         PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              agt t gc aagg c t agc ggc t a c ac c t t t ac c ggat gt t at a t gc at t gggt ac gc c aagc c       120
              c c c ggac aag gc t t ggaat g gat ggggc gt at c aac c c aa ac t c t ggc gg gac t aat t ac          180
              gc c c agaagt t t c agggaag ggt gac t at g ac aagggac a c at c c at at c c ac c gc t t at          240
              at ggac c t gt c t c gac t gc g gt c t gat gat ac agc c gt t t at t ac t gc gc c agagac t ac       300
              agc ggat gga gc t t c gat t a t t gggggc ag ggt ac t t t gg t c ac agt t t c aagt                  354
              <210>        8
<removed-apn>
              <211>        118
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv of HL161C
              <400>     8
              Gl n Val Gl n Leu Val Gl n Ser Gl y Al a Gl u Val Ly s Ly s Pr o Gl y Al a
                 1                5                     10                      15
              Ser Val Ly s Val Ser Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Ty r Thr Phe Thr Gl y Cy s
                            20                     25                    30
              Ty r Met Hi s Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Met
                        35                      40                       45
              Gl y Ar g I l e As n Pr o As n Ser Gl y Gl y Thr As n Ty r Al a Gl n Ly s Phe
                    50                        55                     60
              Gl n Gl y Ar g Val Thr Met Thr Ar g As p Thr Ser I l e Ser Thr Al a Ty r
               65                     70                    75                     80
              Met As p Leu Ser Ar g Leu Ar g Ser As p As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ar g As p Ty r Ser Gl y Tr p Ser Phe As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                             100                    105                     110
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>        9
              <211>        369
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv of HL161D
              <400>        9
              c agc t gc agt t gc aggagt c aggc c c c ggt t t ggt t aagc c t t c t gaaac c c t t t c t c t c      60
              ac at gc ac ag t at c c ggt gg c t c c at c t c c agt t c aagt t ac t ac t gggg at ggat c c gg     120
              c aac c c c c ag gaaaagggc t ggagt ggat t ggc aat at at at t ac t c t gg gt c c ac c t at          180
              t ac aac c c t t c c c t gat gag t agagt gac c at c agc gt gg ac ac aagc aa aaac c aat t c         240
              agc c t gaagc t t t c t agc gt gac c gc t gc c gac ac agc t g t c t at t ac t g t gc c c gc c ag   300
              c t t agt t at a ac t ggaat ga t aggc t gt t t gat t ac t ggg gc c aggggac t c t c gt t ac a       360
                                                                   Page 4

                                                           PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              gt c agc agc                                                                                         369
              <210>          10
              <211>          123
              <212>          PRT
              <213>          Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>          Hv of HL161D
<removed-apn>
              <400>     10
              Gl n Leu Gl n Leu Gl n Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Gl y Leu Val Ly s Pr o Ser Gl u
                 1                 5                     10                     15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cy s Thr Val Ser Gl y Gl y Ser I l e Ser Ser Ser
                           20                   25                      30
              Ser Ty r Ty r Tr p Gl y Tr p I l e Ar g Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u
                        35                        40                       45
              Tr p I l e Gl y As n I l e Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r As n Pr o Ser
                     50                        55                    60
              Leu Met Ser Ar g Val Thr I l e Ser Val As p Thr Ser Ly s As n Gl n Phe
               65                   70                     75                     80
              Ser Leu Ly s Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Al a Al a As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r
                                85                   90                     95
              Cy s Al a Ar g Gl n Leu Ser Ty r As n Tr p As n As p Ar g Leu Phe As p Ty r
                             100                    105                     110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>          11
              <211>          357
              <212>          DNA
              <213>          Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>          Lv of HL161A
              <400>          11
              t c t t ac gt gc t gac c c agc c c c c c t c c gt g t c t gt ggc t c c t ggc c agac c gc c agaat c    60
              ac c t gt ggc g gc aac aac at c ggc t c c ac c t c c gt gc ac t ggt at c agc a gaagc c c ggc         120
              c aggc c c c c g t gc t ggt ggt gc ac gac gac t c c gac c ggc c t t c t ggc at c c c t gagc gg       180
              t t c t c c ggc t c c aac t c c gg c aac ac c gc c ac c c t gac c a t c t c c agagt ggaagc c ggc     240
              gac gaggc c g ac t ac t ac t g c c aagt gc ga gac t c c t c c t c c gac c ac gt gat c t t c ggc      300
              ggaggc ac c a agc t gac c gt gc t gggc c ag c c t aaggc c g c t c c c t c c gt gac c c t g           357
              <210>          12
              <211>          119
              <212>          PRT
              <213>          Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
                                                                      Page 5

                                                         PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <223>        Lv of HL161A
              <400>     12
              Ser Ty r Val Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Pr o Ser Val Ser Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n
                1                5                     10                    15
              Thr Al a Ar g I l e Thr Cy s Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Thr Ser Val
                              20                      25                       30
              Hi s Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Pr o Val Leu Val Val Hi s
                         35                       40                      45
<removed-apn>
              As p As p Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o Gl u Ar g Phe Ser Gl y Ser
                    50                      55                       60
              As n Ser Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Ar g Val Gl u Al a Gl y
               65                     70                     75                     80
              As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Val Ar g As p Ser Ser Ser As p Hi s
                                   85                      90                    95
              Val I l e Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu Gl y Gl n Pr o Ly s
                            100                     105                  110
              Al a Al a Pr o Ser Val Thr Leu
                        115
              <210>        13
              <211>        357
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161B
              <400>          13
              t c t t ac gt gc t gac c c agt c c c c c t c c gt g t c c gt ggc t c c t ggc c agac c gc c agaat c    60
              ac c t gt ggc g gc aac aac at c ggc t c c aag t c c gt gc ac t ggt at c agc a gaagc c c ggc          120
              c aggc c c c c g t gc t ggt ggt gt ac gac gac t c c gac c ggc c c t c t ggc at c c c t gagc gg       180
              t t c t c c gc c t c c aac t c c gg c aac ac c gc c ac c c t gac c a t c t c c agagt ggaagc c ggc    240
              gac gaggc c g ac t ac t ac t g c c aagt gt gg gac t c c t c c t c c gac c ac gt ggt gt t c ggc       300
              ggaggc ac c a agc t gac c gt gc t gggc c ag c c t aaggc c g c t c c c t c c gt gac c c t g           357
              <210>        14
              <211>        119
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161B
              <400>     14
              Ser Ty r Val Leu Thr Gl n Ser Pr o Ser Val Ser Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n
                1                5                    10                    15
              Thr Al a Ar g I l e Thr Cy s Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Ly s Ser Val
                              20                      25                       30
                                                                      Page 6

                                                 PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              Hi s Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Pr o Val Leu Val Val Ty r
                         35                       40                      45
              As p As p Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o Gl u Ar g Phe Ser Al a Ser
                    50                      55                       60
              As n Ser Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Ar g Val Gl u Al a Gl y
               65                     70                     75                     80
              As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Val Tr p As p Ser Ser Ser As p Hi s
                                   85                      90                    95
              Val Val Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu Gl y Gl n Pr o Ly s
<removed-apn>
                          100                     105                  110
              Al a Al a Pr o Ser Val Thr Leu
                        115
              <210>        15
              <211>        357
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161BK
              <400>          15
              t c t t ac gt gc t gac c c agt c c c c c t c c gt g t c c gt ggc t c c t ggc c agac c gc c agaat c    60
              ac c t gt ggc g gc aac aac at c ggc t c c aag t c c gt gc ac t ggt at c agc a gaagc c c ggc          120
              c aggc c c c c g t gc t ggt ggt gt ac gac gac t c c gac c ggc c c t c t ggc at c c c t gagc gg       180
              t t c t c c gc c t c c aac t c c gg c aac ac c gc c ac c c t gac c a t c t c c agagt ggaagc c ggc    240
              gac gaggc c g ac t ac t ac t g c c aagt gt gg gac t c c t c c t c c gac c ac gt ggt gt t c ggc       300
              ggaggc ac c a agc t gac c gt gc t gggc c ag c c t aaggc c g c t c c c t c c gt gac c c t g           357
              <210>        16
              <211>        119
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161BK
              <400>     16
              Ser Ty r Val Leu Thr Gl n Ser Pr o Ser Val Ser Val Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n
                1                5                    10                    15
              Thr Al a Ar g I l e Thr Cy s Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Ly s Ser Val
                              20                      25                       30
              Hi s Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Pr o Val Leu Val Val Ty r
                         35                       40                      45
              As p As p Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o Gl u Ar g Phe Ser Al a Ser
                    50                      55                       60
              As n Ser Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Ar g Val Gl u Al a Gl y
               65                     70                     75                     80
              As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Val Tr p As p Ser Ser Ser As p Hi s
                                                           Page 7

                                                         PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
                                        85                        90                                 95
              Val Val Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu Gl y Gl n Pr o Ly s
                          100                     105                  110
              Al a Al a Pr o Ser Val Thr Leu
                        115
              <210>        17
              <211>        351
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161C
              <400>        17
              gac at c c aga t gac c c agt c ac c at c at c c c t t t c c gc at c t gt c ggaga t agagt gac t         60
              at c ac c t gc a gggc t t c t c a aggt at t t c c aac t ac c t c g c c t ggt t c c a gc aaaagc c a    120
              ggt aaagc c c c aaagagc t t gat c t ac gc c gc t t c t agt c t gc agagt gg agt t c c t agt            180
              aagt t c t c c g gc t c t ggc ag t ggc ac agat t t t ac c t t ga c c at t t c c ag c c t gc agt c t   240
              gaggat t t c g c t ac c t ac t a t t gt c agc ag t at gac agc t at c c c c c c ac at t t gggggg       300
              ggc ac t aagg t ggagat aaa ac ggac agt g gc t gc c c c t t c t gt c t t t at t                        351
              <210>        18
              <211>        117
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161C
              <400>       18
              As p I l e Gl n Met Thr Gl n Ser Pr o Ser Ser Leu Ser Al a Ser Val Gl y
                 1                  5                    10                   15
              As p Ar g Val Thr I l e Thr Cy s Ar g Al a Ser Gl n Gl y I l e Ser As n Ty r
                             20                      25                       30
              Leu Al a Tr p Phe Gl n Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl y Ly s Al a Pr o Ly s Ser Leu I l e
                        35                      40                       45
              Ty r Al a Al a Ser Ser Leu Gl n Ser Gl y Val Pr o Ser Ly s Phe Ser Gl y
                    50                    55                     60
              Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Thr As p Phe Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Ser Leu Gl n Ser
               65                    70                    75                    80
              Gl u As p Phe Al a Thr Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Gl n Ty r As p Ser Ty r Pr o Pr o
                                  85                      90                      95
              Thr Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Val Gl u I l e Ly s Ar g Thr Val Al a Al a
                           100                    105                      110
              Pr o Ser Val Phe I l e
                       115
              <210>        19
                                                                       Page 8

                                                         PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <211>        351
              <212>        DNA
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161D
              <400>       19
              agc t at gagc t gac c c agc c t c t gagc gt a t c t gt c gc t c t c ggc c agac agc c agaat t      60
              ac c t gt ggc g gc aat aac at aggat c c aaa aat gt t c ac t ggt at c agc a aaaac c t ggc         120
<removed-apn>
              c aagc t c c c g t gc t c gt gat c t ac c gggac t c t aac c gac c c agt ggaat c c c c gaac gc    180
              t t t agc ggt t c c aac t c t gg aaat ac agc t ac t c t gac t a t c t c c agggc t c aggc c ggg   240
              gat gaggc c g at t ac t ac t g c c aggt gt gg gac t c aagc a c agt ggt c t t c ggc ggaggt        300
              ac c aagt t ga c t gt t c t t gg gc agc c aaag gc c gc ac c t t c agt gac c c t g                351
              <210>        20
              <211>        117
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Lv of HL161D
              <400>     20
              Ser Ty r Gl u Leu Thr Gl n Pr o Leu Ser Val Ser Val Al a Leu Gl y Gl n
                1                 5                    10                   15
              Thr Al a Ar g I l e Thr Cy s Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Ly s As n Val
                              20                      25                       30
              Hi s Tr p Ty r Gl n Gl n Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Pr o Val Leu Val I l e Ty r
                         35                       40                      45
              Ar g As p Ser As n Ar g Pr o Ser Gl y I l e Pr o Gl u Ar g Phe Ser Gl y Ser
                    50                      55                       60
              As n Ser Gl y As n Thr Al a Thr Leu Thr I l e Ser Ar g Al a Gl n Al a Gl y
               65                     70                     75                      80
              As p Gl u Al a As p Ty r Ty r Cy s Gl n Val Tr p As p Ser Ser Thr Val Val
                                   85                      90                    95
              Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Thr Val Leu Gl y Gl n Pr o Ly s Al a Al a
                            100                   105                    110
              Pr o Ser Val Thr Leu
                       115
              <210>        21
              <211>        5
              <212>        PRT
              <213>        Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>        Hv CDR1 of HL161A
              <400>     21
              Ser Cy s Val Met Thr
                                                                   Page 9

                                                      PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
                1                   5
              <210>     22
              <211>     17
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR2 of HL161A
              <400>      22
<removed-apn>
              Val I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s
                1                  5                    10                      15
              Gl y
              <210>     23
              <211>     12
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR3 of HL161A
              <400>     23
              Thr Pr o Tr p Tr p Leu Ar g Ser Pr o Phe Phe As p Ty r
                1                  5                    10
              <210>     24
              <211>     11
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Lv CDR1 of HL161A
              <400>      24
              Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Thr Ser Val Hi s
                 1                    5                   10
              <210>     25
              <211>     7
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Lv CDR2 of HL161A
              <400>      25
              As p As p Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser
                 1                  5
              <210>     26
              <211>     10
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
                                                               Page 10

                                                      PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <223>     Lv CDR3 of HL161A
              <400>     26
              Val Ar g As p Ser Ser Ser As p Hi s Val I l e
                1                 5                     10
              <210>     27
              <211>     5
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR1 of HL161B or HL161BK
              <400>    27
              Phe Ser Ty r Tr p Val
                1                 5
              <210>     28
              <211>     16
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR2 of HL161B or HL161BK
              <400>      28
              Thr I l e Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y As n Thr Ty r Ty r As n Pr o Ser Leu Ly s Ser
                1                   5                     10                     15
              <210>     29
              <211>     11
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR3 of HL161B or HL161BK
              <400>      29
              Ar g Al a Gl y I l e Leu Thr Gl y Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                   5                    10
              <210>     30
              <211>     11
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Lv CDR1 of HL161B or HL161BK
              <400>      30
              Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Ly s Ser Val Hi s
                 1                    5                    10
              <210>     31
              <211>     7
                                                               Page 11

                                                       PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Lv CDR2 of HL161B or HL161BK
              <400>      31
              As p As p Ser As p Ar g Pr o Ser
                 1                  5
              <210>      32
<removed-apn>
              <211>      11
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Lv CDR3 of HL161B or HL161BK
              <400>     32
              Gl n Val Tr p As p Ser Ser Ser As p Hi s Val Val
                 1                 5                    10
              <210>      33
              <211>      5
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Hv CDR1 of HL161C
              <400>      33
              Gl y Cy s Ty r Met Hi s
                 1                  5
              <210>      34
              <211>      17
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Hv CDR2 of HL161C
              <400>       34
              Ar g I l e As n Pr o As n Ser Gl y Gl y Thr As n Ty r Al a Gl n Ly s Phe Gl n
                 1                    5                    10                       15
              Gl y
              <210>      35
              <211>      9
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Hv CDR3 of HL161C
              <400>      35
              As p Ty r Ser Gl y Tr p Ser Phe As p Ty r
                                                                Page 12

                                                      PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
                1                   5
              <210>     36
              <211>     11
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Lv CDR1 of HL161C
              <400>      36
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Al a Ser Gl n Gl y I l e Ser As n Ty r Leu Al a
                 1                  5                      10
              <210>     37
              <211>     7
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Lv CDR2 of HL161C
              <400>      37
              Al a Al a Ser Ser Leu Gl n Ser
                 1                5
              <210>     38
              <211>     10
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Lv CDR3 of HL161C
              <400>      38
              Gl n Gl n Ty r As p Ser Ty r Pr o Pr o Thr Phe
                 1                  5                     10
              <210>     39
              <211>     5
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR1 of HL161D
              <400>     39
              Ser Ty r Ty r Tr p Gl y
                1                   5
              <210>     40
              <211>     16
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Hv CDR2 of HL161D
                                                               Page 13

                                                PCTKR2015004424- s eql . app
<removed-date>
              <400>       40
              As n I l e Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r As n Pr o Ser Leu Met Ser
                 1                   5                    10                     15
              <210>      41
              <211>      13
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>      Hv CDR3 of HL161D
              <400>     41
              Gl n Leu Ser Ty r As n Tr p As n As p Ar g Leu Phe As p Ty r
                 1                 5                      10
              <210>      42
              <211>      11
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Lv CDR1 of HL161D
              <400>      42
              Gl y Gl y As n As n I l e Gl y Ser Ly s As n Val Hi s
                 1                    5                     10
              <210>      43
              <211>      7
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Lv CDR2 of HL161D
              <400>      43
              Ar g As p Ser As n Ar g Pr o Ser
                 1                  5
              <210>      44
              <211>      9
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Lv CDR3 of HL161D
              <400>     44
              Gl n Val Tr p As p Ser Ser Thr Val Val
                 1                 5
                                                           Page 14

