                                        ABSTRACT
                                         EIGI I
                                    12
                          10
The present invention provides methods of administering nitric oxide (NO) to a patient, the
method comprising delivering nitric oxide-containing gas directly into arterial or arterialized
blood. The methods of the present invention may be used in the treatment or prevention of
a variety of diseases and disorders responsive to nitric oxide, including those resulting
from ischemia or hypoxia.

    WO 2013/181322                                                    PCT/US2013/043232
                                               1
          METHODS OF ADMINISTERING NITRIC OXIDE TO ARTERIAL OR
                                   ARTERIALIZED BLOOD
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5 [0001]         Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to the field of
   methods and devices for therapeutic delivery of nitric oxide (NO) as well as
   stable pharmaceutical compositions comprising nitric oxide.          The invention
   further relates to the use of such methods and devices to treat and protect cells
   and animals from injury, disease, and premature death.
10 BACKGROUND
   [0002]         The action of nitric oxide (NO) is considered regulatory in
   maintaining normal physiological homeostasis in humans and animals, i.e., host
   defense, vascular tone, neurotransmission, bronchodilatation and inhibition of
   platelet function (see Giustarini et al., Clinica Chimica Acta (2003) 330:85-98).
15 NO mediates blood pressure, learning and memory, immune responses, and
   inflammatory responses (see Thippeswamy et al., Histol. Histopathol.          (2006)
   21:445-458). In addition, the actions of NO have been observed in pathological
   conditions such as acute respiratory distress syndrome, hypertension, pulmonary
   hypertension,       arthritis,   arteriosclerosis,   cancer,     diabetes,     some
20 neurodegenerative diseases and stroke (see Giustarini et al., Clinica Chimica
   Acta (2003) 330:85-98).
   [0003]         Traditionally, inhaled NO (iNO) was believed to work exclusively in
   the lung due to inactivation by hemoglobin (Hb).            That is, reaction with
   oxyhemoglobin to form methemoglobin and nitrate or heme iron nitrosyl
25 hemoblogin (Hb) would cause a loss of vasodilating properties. However it has
   been found that a stable derivative is formed by a reaction resulting in
   nitrosylation of a conserved cysteine residue of the         P  subunit of Hb: S-

                                                 2a
nitrosylated-Hb (SNO-Hb). This reaction is favored in the presence of oxyhaemoglobin
whereas binding of NO to the heme iron is favored in the deoxygenated state. See B. C.
Creagh-Brown, eta/. (2009) Critical Care 13:212. In the past, remote or non-pulmonary
effects of exogenously administered iNO were thought to be undesirable; however, it has
recently been found that the stable derivative SNO-Hb retains vasodilatory properties and
therefore could be beneficial for circulating targets.
[0004] There is clearly a need in the art for improved nitric oxide delivery, particularly
systemic delivery that enables delivery of NO, via the circulatory system, to target tissues
and organs outside of the pulmonary system.
SUMMARY
[0005] The present invention provides methods of administering an NO containing gas
directly to arterial or arterialized blood. These methods may be utilized for a variety of
purposes and may be administered to various biological materials, including cells, tissues,
organs, organisms, and animals, including humans and other mammals.
[0005b] The invention further provides a method of treating, preventing or inhibiting ischemia
or hypoxia in a patient comprising the steps of:
        a)       oxygenating withdrawn blood of the patient through a gas exchange
        membrane at a first reaction area of a gas transfer unit within an oxygenation
        compartment of an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation system (ECMO) to
        produce arterialized blood;
        b)       after oxygenation, delivering a therapeutically effective amount of nitric oxide
        containing gas directly into the arterialized blood of the patient through the gas
        exchange membrane at a second reaction area of the gas transfer unit downstream
        of the first reaction area; and
        c)       infusing the blood produced in step b) into the patient via an arterial cannula,
wherein any remaining oxygen and nitric oxide (NO) is removed from the gas transfer unit
though an outlet in the gas transfer unit downstream of the second reaction area.
[0005c] The invention further provides an apparatus for administration of nitric oxide
containing gas to arterialized blood comprising an extracorporeal oxygenation system
(ECMO), wherein the extracorporeal oxygenation system comprises:
        a receptacle for holding or generating nitric oxide-containing gas;

                                                   2b
          an oxygenation compartment comprising:
          a chamber, wherein blood enters the oxygenation compartment though the chamber;
          and
          a gas transfer unit having a first reaction area, a second reaction area downstream of
          the first reaction area, and an outlet downstream of the second reaction area; and
          a device for delivery of the nitric oxide-containing gas into oxygenated blood prior to
          infusion of the oxygenated blood into the body of a patient,
 wherein the gas transfer unit is separated from the chamber by a gas exchange membrane
 which exchanges oxygen for carbon dioxide in the blood to produce arterialized blood in the
 first reaction area of the gas transfer unit, and exchanges nitric oxide (NO) for oxygen in the
 arterialized blood in the second reaction area of the gas transfer unit.
[0005d] The invention further provides an extracorporeal oxygenation system (ECMO)
comprising an oxygenation compartment comprising:
          a chamber, wherein blood enters the oxygenation compartment though the chamber;
          a gas transfer unit having a first reaction area, a second reaction area downstream of
          the first reaction area, and an outlet downstream of the second reaction area; and
          a venting device in fluid communication with the gas transfer unit though the outlet of
          the gas transfer unit operable to receive any remaining oxygen and NO
 wherein the gas transfer unit is separated from the chamber by the oxygenation
 compartment, which contains a first gas exchange membrane which exchanges oxygen for
 C02 carbon dioxide in the blood to produce arterialized blood in the first reaction area of the
 gas transfer unit, and a second gas exchange membrane downstream of the first gas
 exchange membrane which exchanges nitric oxide (NO) for oxygen 02 in the arterialized
 blood in the second reaction area of the gas transfer unit.
  [0006] One aspect of the present invention provides a method for administering nitric oxide
  (NO) to a patient, the method comprising delivering an NO-containing gas directly to arterial
 or arterialized blood. In a specific embodiment delivery may be via a cardiopulmonary
 bypass (CPB) circuit, with the NO-containing gas being administered to arterialized blood
 after blood withdrawn from the patient has passed through the oxygenator of the CPB circuit,
 prior to infusion of the oxygenated (arterialized) blood into the patient.

                                              2c
[0007] Another aspect of the present invention provides methods for administering NO to a
patient, the method comprising delivering NO-containing gas to arterialized blood in an
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) circuit. The NO-containing gas may be
administered into arterialized blood after blood has been oxygenated and C02 has been
excreted out of the membrane

    WO 2013/181322                                                     PCT/US2013/043232
                                              3
   oxygenator, including at any point after blood withdrawn from the patient has
   passed through the membrane oxygenator of the ECMO circuit, prior to infusion
   of the oxygenated (arterialized) blood into the patient .     In ECMO, arterialized
   blood into which NO-containing gas is delivered may be returned either to the
 5 arterial or venous circulation of the patient.
   [0008]          Another aspect of the invention provides methods for delivery of
   NO-containing gas directly into arterial blood by injection, catheterization,
   infusion,   or    continuous infusion   thereof into   an  arterial   blood   that   is
   extracorporeal and then reinfusion of that blood into either an artery or vein of a
10 patient.     In particular embodiments of methods of the present invention,
   administering or contacting is performed by intra-arterial injection or infusion of
   NO-containing gas.
   [0009]          In certain embodiments, the NO-containing gas is administered as
   a bolus. Other embodiments provide that the NO-containing gas is administered
15 continuously or in a pulsatile fashion.
   [0010]          In certain embodiments, the delivery concentration of NO in the
   NO-containing gas is in the range of about 0.1-500ppm.
   [0011]           In some embodiments, the delivery concentration of NO in the NO
   containing gase is in the range of 1-100ppm.
20 [0012]          In a particular embodiment, the delivery concentration of NO in the
   NO-containing gas is in the range of 2 -20ppm.
   [0013]          In a particular embodiment, the delivery concentration of NO in the
   NO-containing gas is in the range of 5-40 ppm.
   [0014]          In a particular embodiment, the delivery concentration of NO in the
25 NO-containing gas is in the range of 10-30 ppm.
   [0015]          In a particular embodiment, the delivery concentration of NO in the
   NO- containing gas is the containing gas is in the range of 15-25 ppm.
   [0016]          In a particular embodiment, the delivery concentration of NO in the
   NO- containing gas is 20 ppm.

     WO 2013/181322                                                    PCT/US2013/043232
                                             4
   [0017]         In certain embodiments, the NO-containing gas for administration
   may be generated locally (bed-side) for immediate delivery to a patient, for
   example as a component of an extracorporeal oxygenation apparatus.               Local
   generation of NO gas for immediate delivery to a patient may be accomplished
 5 by reaction of a nitrite salt, such as sodium nitrite, and a reductant, such as
   ascorbic acid or maleic acid, in the presence of water, or generation of NO from
   room air, or other potential means. The NO gas so-produced is then delivered or
   introduced directly into the arterial or arterialized blood of the patient. Suitable
   devices for such local generation and delivery are known in the art (e.g., US
10 2007/0190184).     In an alternative embodiment, preformed NO-containing gas is
   administered from a gas cylinder directly into the arterial or arterialized blood of
   the patient.
   [0018]         In a particular embodiment, the NO-containing gas is administered
   via a device, for example an ECMO device.           The NO-containing gas may be
15 administered within the oxygenation compartment of the device, wherein the
   oxygenation compartment contains two components. The first component is a
   first gas exchange membrane (also referred to as a membrane oxygenator)
   which exchanges oxygen for C02 in blood to produce arterialized blood.            The
   second component is a second gas exchange membrane which exchanges NO
20 for 02 in the arterialized blood. The first and second components can be either
   structurally separate components in fluid communication or combined as one
   structure    containing    separate   reaction    areas   within   the   oxygenation
   compartment. In either case, the second component is down-stream of the first
   component, as defined by the direction of blood flow in the device. Thus, NO
25 containing gas is administered either into the oxygenation compartment after 02
   has been administered into the oxygenation compartment and after C02 has
   been    released,   or NO is administered         downstream    of the oxygenation
   compartment (after blood has left the oxygenator but before it is delivered back
   into the patient) or both.

    WO 2013/181322                                                      PCT/US2013/043232
                                                 5
   [0019]        In a related embodiment, the present invention includes a method
   of treating or preventing a disease, disorder, or condition that benefits from
   treatment with NO comprising administering to a patient an amount of NO
   containing gas effective to treat such disease, disorder, or condition, wherein the
 5 NO-containing gas is administered directly into arterial or arterialized blood. In
   particular embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition is a respiratory,
   cardiovascular, pulmonary, or blood disease or disorder, or a tumor, an infection,
   inflammation, shock, sepsis, or stroke, in a patient.
   [0020]        In a further embodiment, the present invention provides a method
10 of preventing or reducing injury to, or enhancing survivability of, a biological
   material exposed to ischemic, hypoxic, or injured conditions, comprising
   contacting the biological material with an effective amount NO via administration
   of an NO-containing gas directly into arterial or arterialized blood.
   [0021]        In one embodiment, a biological material is contacted with the NO
15 containing gas via administration into arterial or arterialized blood before onset of
   the disease, disorder or condition that benefits therefrom.                In another
   embodiment, the biological material is contacted with the NO-containing gas via
   administration into arterial or arterialized blood during occurrence of the disease,
   disorder or condition.
20 [0022]        The present invention further provides systems and devices for the
   administration of NO-containing gas directly into arterial or arterialized blood.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
   [0023]        Fig. 1 illustrates a nitric oxide delivery system that can be used in
   accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.
25 [0024]        Fig.  2    illustrates   a   first embodiment    of   the   oxygenation
   compartment of an ECMO device.
   [0025]        Fig. 3 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the oxygenation
   compartment of an ECMO device.

     WO 2013/181322                                                         PCT/US2013/043232
                                                  6
   [0026]            Fig.   4   illustrates a   further alternative     embodiment    of the
   oxygenation compartment and NO delivery system of an ECMO device.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0027]           As used in the specification and appended claims, unless specified
 5 to the contrary, the following terms have the meaning indicated:
   [0028]           The term "arterialized blood" refers to venous blood which has been
   converted to arterial blood by absorption of oxygen and excretion of C02 Such
   conversion may be accomplished in vivo (e.g., by absorption of oxygen in the
   lungs) or ex vivo (e.g., by extracorporeal oxygenation).
10 [0029]           The term "arterial blood" refers to oxygenated blood in the arterial
   circulation of the body.
   [0030]           The term "biological material" refers to any living biological material,
   including cells, tissues, organs, and/or organisms.           It is contemplated that the
   methods of the present invention may be practiced on a part of an organism
15 (such as in cells, in tissue, and/or in one or more organs), or on the whole
   organism. The term "in vivo biological material" refers to biological material that
   is in vivo, i.e., still within or attached to an organism.
   [0031]           "Therapeutically effective amount" refers to that amount of NO gas
   that, when administered via arterial or arterialized blood to a subject, preferably a
20 human, is sufficient to effect treatment as defined herein.             The amount of a
   compound of the invention which constitutes a "therapeutically effective amount"
   will vary depending on the compound, the condition and its severity, and the
   manner of administration, but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill
   in the art having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.
25 [0032]           "Treating" or "treatment" as used herein covers the treatment of the
   disease or condition of interest in a subject, preferably a human, having the
   disease or condition of interest, and includes:           (i) preventing the disease or
   condition from occurring in the subject, (ii) inhibiting the disease or condition, i.e.,

     WO 2013/181322                                                   PCT/US2013/043232
                                              7
   arresting its progression; (iii) relieving the disease or condition, i.e., causing
   regression of the disease or condition; or (iv) relieving the symptoms resulting
   from the disease or condition. As used herein, the terms "disease," "disorder,"
   and "condition" may be used interchangeably.
 5 [0033]         "Delivery concentration" refers to the concentration of NO gas in a
   composition of NO-containing gas for medical use which is delivered to arterial or
   arterialized blood. In addition to NO gas, such compositions for medical use may
   further comprise an inert diluent gas.      It is to be understood that the delivery
   concentration will be diluted upon contact with blood, where it is mixed and
10 distributed to the target biological material.
   [0034]         Prior to the present invention, NO was thought to react with
   oxyhemoglobin to form methemoglobin and nitrate or heme iron nitrosyl Hb, and
   thereby lose all vasodilating properties. However, it has been found that a stable
   derivate that retains vasodilatory properties is formed by a reaction resulting in
15 nitrosylation of a conserved cysteine residue of the          P  subunit of Hb: S
   nitrosylated-Hb    (SNO-Hb).    This   reaction    is favored in  the presence of
   oxyhemoglobin whereas the prior reaction is favored in the deoxygenated state.
   Thus the present invention provides methods that maximize the formation of
   SNOHb, thereby maximizing the systemic effects of NO.
20 [0035]         One aspect of the current invention relates to a method of
   delivering nitric oxide (NO) to a patient comprising administering NO-containing
   gas directly into arterial or arterialized blood, the administered gas having a
   delivery concentration of .01 to 1Oppm NO. In certain embodiments, the delivery
   concentration is in the range of 10 to 40ppm.            According to one or more
25 embodiments, the delivery concentration is in the range of 40 to 100ppm.           In
   other embodiments, the delivery concentration is greater than 100 ppm.
   [0036]         In one embodiment, the          NO-containing gas is administered
   continuously, for example by continuous infusion.

    WO 2013/181322                                                     PCT/US2013/043232
                                               8
   [0037]         In another embodiment, the NO-containing gas is delivered as a
   bolus rather than via a continuous administration method. A "bolus" refers to a
   single administration delivered over a short period of time, for example by
   injection from a syringe.      Multiple bolus administrations may be given to the
 5 subject, each separated by a period of time.
   [0038]         In another embodiment, the NO- containing gas is delivered in a
   pulse as opposed to continuous administration. A "pulse" refers to multiple short
   administrations within a time period.
   [0039]         In an additional embodiment, a device can monitor the arterial or
10 arterialized blood and administer the NO-containing gas at any delivery rate or
   concentration as necessary to provide sufficient results. Administration can
   automatically or manually adjust or otherwise change the flow, concentration or
   amount of NO during the course of delivery.
   [0040]         The present invention includes improved methods of systemically
15 treating diseases and disorders with nitric oxide, which comprise administering
   nitric oxide gas directly into arterial or arterialized blood.   Further, the present
   invention provides improved methods of enhancing cell survival, inducing stasis,
   or protecting cells or tissue from injury due to hypoxia or ischemia, which
   comprise administering NO-containing gas directly to arterial or arterialized
20 blood. The invention further includes methods and devices for the preparation
   and administration of NO-containing gas to a subject via arterial or arterialized
   blood.    Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it may be that
   administration of NO gas directly to oxygenated blood (e.g., after blood passes
   through an extracorporeal oxygenation system) or directly through an arterial
25 catheter or intra-arterial injection will maximize the formation of SNO-Hb and thus
   maximize the systemic effects.
   [0041]         In certain embodiments, methods, compositions, and devices of the
   present invention are used to systemically treat or prevent any of a variety of
   diseases and disorders that benefit from treatment with nitric oxide. In particular

     WO 2013/181322                                                    PCT/US2013/043232
                                              9
   embodiments, the methods of the present invention may be used to modulate
   biological pathways regulated or affected by nitric oxide.
   [0042]         Nitric oxide mediates      blood   pressure    (causing vasodilation),
   learning    and   memory,    immune     responses     and  inflammatory   responses.
 5 Accordingly, diseases, disorders or conditions potentially treatable by systemic
   administration of NO gas directly into arterial or arterialized blood according to
   the invention include respiratory, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and blood diseases,
   disorders or conditions, as well as hypoxemia, tumors, infections, inflammation,
   shock, sepsis and stroke.     In specific examples, respiratory distress syndrome,
10 asthma, bronchospastic disease, myocardial infarction, hemorrhage, sickle cell
   disease, platelet aggregation and major surgery may be treatable according to
   the methods of the invention.        Further specific examples include pulmonary
   hypertension and hypoxemia following cardiopulmonary bypass, mitral valve
   replacement, heart or lung transplantation, and pulmonary embolism.
15 [0043]         Systemic administration      of nitric oxide     gas into  arterial  or
   arterialized blood may be useful in suppressing, killing, and inhibiting pathogenic
   cells, such as tumor cells, cancer cells, or microorganisms, including but not
   limited to pathogenic bacteria, pathogenic mycobacteria, pathogenic parasites,
   and pathogenic fungi.      Examples of microorganisms include those associated
20 with a respiratory infection within the respiratory tract.
   [0044]         Systemic administration      of nitric oxide     gas into  arterial  or
   arterialized blood may enhance the survivability of biological materials, including,
   e.g., organs and tissues, that are subjected to ischemic or hypoxic conditions. In
   related embodiments, the present invention provides methods of preventing or
25 reducing damage to biological materials, including, e.g., including cell, organ or
   tissue injuries resulting from ischemia or hypoxia. It is understood that a whole
   biological material or only a portion thereof, e.g., a particular organ, may be
   subjected to ischemic or hypoxic conditions.

     WO 2013/181322                                                   PCT/US2013/043232
                                               10
   [0045]          The ischemic or hypoxic conditions may be the result of an injury or
   disease suffered by an organism. Examples of specific diseases that can induce
   ischemia or hypoxia include, but are not limited to, traumatic injury or surgery,
   respiratory or cardiac arrest, tumors, heart diseases, and neurological diseases.
 5 Examples of specific injuries that can result in ischemic or hypoxic conditions
   include, but are not limited to, external insults, such as burns, cutting wounds,
   amputations, gunshot wounds, or surgical trauma. In addition, injuries can also
   include internal insults, such as stroke or heart attack, which result in the acute
   reduction in circulation.    Other injuries include reductions in circulation due to
10 non-invasive stress, such as exposure to cold or radiation, or a planned reduction
   in circulation, e.g., during heart surgery.
   [0046]          In certain embodiments, methods of the present invention include
   systemically administering NO-containing gas directly into arterial or arterialized
   blood prior to development of a disease, disorder or condition treatable with NO
15 gas, e.g., prior to an ischemic or hypoxic injury or disease insult. Examples of
   such situations include, but are not limited to, major surgery where blood loss
   may occur spontaneously or as a result of a procedure, cardiopulmonary bypass
   in which oxygenation of the blood may be compromised or in which vascular
   delivery of blood may be reduced (as in the setting of coronary artery bypass
20 graft (CABG) surgery), or in the treatment of organ donors prior to removal of
   donor organs for transport and transplantation into a recipient. Other examples
   include, but are not limited to, medical conditions in which a risk of injury or
   disease progression is inherent (e.g., in the context of unstable angina, following
   angioplasty, bleeding aneurysms, hemorrhagic strokes, following major trauma or
25 blood loss).
   [0047]          In certain embodiments, methods of the present invention include
   systemically administering NO-containing gas directly into arterial or arterialized
   blood after development or onset of a disease, disorder or condition treatable
   with NO, e.g., after an ischemic or hypoxic injury or disease insult, or after onset

     WO 2013/181322                                                      PCT/US2013/043232
                                               11
   any of the diseases, disorders or conditions discussed above.            In a particular
   aspect of such embodiments, NO-containing gas may be administered to a
   patient suffering from the disease, disorder or condition upon recognition or
   diagnosis of the disease, disorder or condition.
 5 [0048]          In certain embodiments, inflammatory-related diseases or disorders
   may be treated by administration of NO-containing gas directly into arterial or
   arterialized blood.     Inflammatory-related diseases or disorders which may be
   treatable by the methods of the present invention include, e.g., multiple sclerosis,
   arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, graft versus host
10 disease, diabetes, psoriasis, progressive systemic sclerosis, scleroderma, acute
   coronary     syndrome,      Crohn's   Disease,     endometriosis,   glomerulonephritis,
   myasthenia gravis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, asthma, acute respiratory
   distress syndrome (ARDS), vasculitis, and inflammatory autoimmune myositis.
   [0049]          In a specific embodiment, the methods of the invention comprise
15 administration of NO-containing gas directly into arterialized blood in an
   extracorporeal oxygenation system.          The extracorporeal oxygenation system
   may be, for example, an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation system or a CPB
   circuit. In such methods the NO-containing gas is administered into the blood at
   any point in the system which is after oxygenation of the withdrawn blood. An
20 example of CPB system 20 according to the invention is illustrated in Fig. 1.
   Venous blood is withdrawn from the patient through venous cannula 20, which
   may be inserted in the right atrium, vena cava or femoral vein.               Withdrawn
   venous blood is collected in reservoir 11 and circulated into oxygenator 13 by
   pump 12, where it is oxygenated and typically cooled by heat exchanger 14 to
25 slow the body's basal metabolism during bypass surgery. The oxygenated blood
   is generally filtered through filter 15 prior to return to the body via arterial cannula
   16, which may be inserted in the ascending aorta or the femoral artery.             NO
   containing gas may be introduced into the CBP circuit via NO delivery device 18
   which is and in fluid communication with NO generating device/NO reservoir 17

    WO 2013/181322                                                     PCT/US2013/043232
                                              12
   and with CBP system 20 downstream of oxygenator 13. NO-containing gas may
   be introduced into the CBP circuit at any point after oxygenator 13 for return to
   the arterial circulation.   In the CBP circuit illustrated in Fig. 1, this includes
   introduction between oxygenator 13 and filter 15 (as shown) or between filter 15
 5 and arterial cannula 16 (not shown).       Alternatively, NO-containing gas may be
   introduced into the CBP circuit in oxygenator 13, provided blood is oxygenated
   prior to contact with the NO-containing gas within oxygenator 13.
   [0050]          In a   further  aspect, the     invention   provides  extracorporeal
   oxygenation systems which comprise a component for introduction of NO
10 containing gas into oxygenated (arterialized) blood prior to infusion into the body
   of a patient. Such structure of such apparati are generally as described above,
   with the addition of a device for introduction of NO-containing gas into the portion
   of the circuit which contains arterialized blood. The device for introduction of NO
   containing gas into oxygenated blood prior to infusion may comprise a container,
15 gas cylinder or receptacle for holding or locally generating the NO-containing
   gas, referred to as an "NO generator/receptacle". The device for introduction of
   the NO-containing gas into the arterialized blood will typically include a pump,
   injector or metering device to facilitate delivery of the NO-containing gas into the
   oxygenated blood of the extracorporeal circuit for return to the patient, referred to
20 as an "NO delivery device".
   [0051]          Extracorporeal oxygenation systems are simplified CBP circuits
   which provide cardiac and respiratory support oxygen to patients.           In these
   systems venous blood is withdrawn from the patient, oxygenated outside of the
   body, and returned either via the arterial system or the venous system. A typical
25 extracorporeal oxygenation system uses a membrane oxygenator and is referred
   to as an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) system.              The system
   comprises a venous cannula typically placed in the right common femoral vein for
   extraction and an arterial cannula placed either into the right femoral artery
   (veno-arterial ECMO) or the right internal jugular vein (veno-venous ECMO) for

     WO 2013/181322                                                    PCT/US2013/043232
                                               13
   infusion. In the methods of the invention, to obtain direct administration of NO
   containing gas into arterialized blood, the NO-containing gas is introduced into
   the withdrawn blood at any point between the oxygenator and the venous or
   arterial infusion cannula. Alternatively, NO-containing gas may be introduced
 5 into the withdrawn blood in the oxygenator, provided blood is oxygenated prior to
   contact with the NO-containing gas within the oxygenator.
   [0052]          In a particular embodiment, the NO-containing gas is administered
   via a device, for example an ECMO device.           The NO-containing gas may be
   administered within the oxygenation compartment of the device, wherein the
10 oxygenation compartment contains two components. The first component is a
   first gas exchange membrane (also referred to as a membrane oxygenator)
   which exchanges oxygen for C02 in blood to produce arterialized blood.            The
   second component is a second gas exchange membrane which exchanges NO
   for 02 in the arterialized blood. The first and second components can be either
15 structurally separate components in fluid communication or combined as one
   structure    containing      separate   reaction  areas   within   the   oxygenation
   compartment. In either case, the second component is down-stream of the first
   component, as defined by the direction of blood flow in the device. Thus, NO
   containing gas is administered either into the oxygenation compartment after 02
20 has been administered into the oxygenation compartment and after C02 has
   been    released,    or NO is administered        downstream    of the oxygenation
   compartment (after blood has left the oxygenator but before it is delivered back
   into the patient) or both.
   [0053]          Fig. 2 illustrates oxygenation compartment 113 of an ECMO device,
25 wherein oxygenation of blood and delivery of NO both occur within gas transfer
   unit 121.     In this embodiment, blood enters oxygenation compartment 113
   through inlet 127, flows into chamber 123, and exits oxygenation compartment
   113 through outlet 126.           Chamber 123 is in contact with gas permeable
   membrane 124 of gas transfer unit 121.           Oxygen source 125 is also in fluid

     WO 2013/181322                                                 PCT/US2013/043232
                                              14
   communication with gas transfer unit 121 through inlet 131. As blood enters the
   upstream portion of chamber 123, oxygen introduced into gas transfer unit 121
   from oxygen source 125 diffuses through gas permeable membrane 124 into the
   blood, exchanging oxygen for C02.           The portion of gas transfer unit 121
 5 downstream of inlet 131 is in fluid communication with NO delivery device 118,
   through inlet 132.      NO delivery device 118 is in fluid communication with NO
   generator/reservoir 117 to deliver NO to gas transfer unit 121.            As the
   oxygenated blood in chamber 123 comes into contact with gas permeable
   membrane 124 downstream of inlet 131, NO introduced into gas transfer unit 121
10 through inlet 132 diffuses through gas permeable membrane 124 into the
   oxygenated blood, exchanging NO for oxygen. After delivery of oxygen and NO
   to the blood, remaining oxygen and NO may be removed from gas transfer unit
   121 to venting device 122 via outlet 133 in fluid communication with gas transfer
   unit 121.
15 [0054]         Fig. 3 illustrates oxygenation compartment 113 of an ECMO device,
   wherein oxygenation of blood and delivery of NO occur within structurally
   separate components 221 and 229 of oxygenation compartment 213.             In this
   embodiment, blood enters oxygenation compartment 213 through inlet 227, flows
   into chamber 223, and exits oxygenation compartment 213 through outlet 226.
20 Chamber 223 is in contact with oxygen permeable membrane 224 of oxygen
   transfer unit 221. Oxygen source 225 is also in fluid communication with oxygen
   transfer unit 221 through inlet 231.      As blood enters the upstream portion of
   chamber 223, oxygen introduced into oxygen transfer unit 221 from oxygen
   source 225 diffuses through oxygen permeable membrane 224 into the blood,
25 exchanging oxygen for C02. Downstream of inlet 231, remaining oxygen may be
   removed from oxygen transfer unit 221 to oxygen venting device 222 via outlet
   233 in fluid communication with oxygen transfer unit 221.        The downstream
   portion of chamber 223 is in contact with NO permeable membrane 230 of NO
   transfer unit 229. NO delivery device 218 is also influid communication with NO

    WO 2013/181322                                                  PCT/US2013/043232
                                              15
   transfer unit 229 through inlet 232.          NO delivery device 218 is in fluid
   communication with NO generator/reservoir 217 to deliver NO to NO chamber
   229. As oxygenated blood flows to the downstream portion of chamber 223, it
   comes into contact with NO permeable membrane 230 of NO transfer unit 229,
 5 and NO introduced into NO transfer unit 229 through inlet 232 diffuses into the
   oxygenated blood, exchanging NO for oxygen. After delivery of NO to the blood,
   remaining NO may be removed from NO transfer unit 229 to NO venting device
   228 via outlet 234 in fluid communication with NO transfer unit 229.
   [0055]         Fig. 4 illustrates oxygenation compartment 313 of an ECMO device,
10 wherein oxygenation of blood occurs within oxygenation compartment 313 and
   delivery of NO to the blood occurs downstream of and outside oxygenation
   compartment 313.        In this embodiment, blood enters oxygenation compartment
   313 through      inlet 327, flows into      chamber 323,   and exits oxygenation
   compartment 313 through outlet 326.         Chamber 323 is in contact with oxygen
15 permeable membrane 324 of oxygen transfer unit 321 within oxygenation
   compartment 313.         Oxygen source 325 is also in fluid communication with
   oxygen transfer unit 321 through inlet 331. As blood enters the upstream portion
   of chamber 323, oxygen introduced into oxygen transfer unit 321 from oxygen
   source 325 diffuses through oxygen permeable membrane 324 into the blood,
20 exchanging oxygen for C02. Downstream of inlet 331, remaining oxygen may be
   removed from oxygen transfer unit 321 to oxygen venting device 322 via outlet
   333 in fluid communication with oxygen transfer unit 321.        The downstream
   portion of chamber 323 is in contact with NO permeable membrane 330 of NO
   transfer unit 329, which is outside oxygenation compartment 313. NO delivery
25 device 318 is also influid communication with NO transfer unit 329 through inlet
   332.     NO     delivery     device  318   is  in fluid communication    with   NO
   generator/reservoir 317 to deliver NO to NO chamber 329. As oxygenated blood
   exits oxygenation compartment 313 and flows to the downstream portion of
   chamber 323, it comes into contact with NO permeable membrane 330 of NO

    WO 2013/181322                                                   PCT/US2013/043232
                                            16
   transfer unit 329, and NO introduced into chamber 329 through inlet 332 diffuses
   into the oxygenated blood, exchanging NO for oxygen. After delivery of NO to
   the blood, remaining NO may be removed from NO transfer unit 329 to NO
   venting device 328 via outlet 334 in fluid communication with NO transfer unit
 5 329.
   [0056]         The NO-containing gas may be administered in the oxygenator
   after the blood has been partially oxygenated or fully oxygenated and may be
   administered separately from the addition of the oxygen.       The NO- containing
   gas is typically administered after 02 administration and C02 release.
10 [0057]         In various embodiments, methods of the present invention include
   delivery of     NO-containing    gas directly  into  arterial blood   by  injection,
   catheterization, infusion, or continuous infusion into an artery, for example, a
   central or peripheral artery (e.g., the aorta, femoral, brachial, radial, ulnar,
   dorsalis pedis, etc.).
15 [0058]         Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment,"
   "certain embodiments," "one or more embodiments" or "an embodiment" means
   that a particular feature, structure, material, or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the
   invention.   Thus, the appearances of the phrases such as "in one or more
20 embodiments," "in certain embodiments," "in one embodiment" or "in an
   embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily
   referring to the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, the particular
   features, structures, materials, or characteristics may be combined in any
   suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
25 [0059]         Although the invention herein has been described with reference to
   particular embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are
   merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. It
   will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and
   variations can be made to the method and apparatus of the present invention

                                           17
without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, it is intended that
the present invention include modifications and variations that are within the scope of
the appended claims and their equivalents.
[0060] Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will
be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not
the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.

      WO 2013/181322                                                       PCT/US2013/043232
                                                 is
     What is claimed is:
     1.     A method of treating a disease, disorder or condition responsive to nitric
     oxide comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of nitric oxide
     containing gas directly into arterial or arterialized blood of a patient.
  5  2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the nitric oxide-containing gas is
     administered into arterialized blood via an extracorporeal oxygenation system,
     the nitric oxide-containing gas being delivered into withdrawn blood after the
    withdrawn blood has been oxygenated in the extracorporeal oxygenation system.
     3.     The method of claim 2, wherein the extracorporeal oxygenation system is
10   a cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) circuit.
    4.      The method of claim 2, wherein the extracorporeal oxygenation system is
    an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation system (ECMO).
    5.      The method of claim 1, wherein administration is bolus administration of
    the nitric oxide-containing gas.
15  6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the delivery concentration is in the range
    of 0.1-500ppm.
    7.      The    method    of   claim    1, wherein      administration    is  continuous
    administration.
    8.      The method of claim 7 wherein a delivery concentration of 0.1-500ppm is
20  continuously administered.
    9.      The method of claim 1, wherein the treated disease, disorder or condition
    is selected from the group consisting of a respiratory, cardiovascular, pulmonary,
    or blood disease or disorder; a tumor, an infection, inflammation, shock, sepsis,
    and stroke.
25  10.     The method of claim 1, wherein the treated disease, disorder or condition
    is ischemia or hypoxia.

     WO 2013/181322                                                  PCT/US2013/043232
                                             19
   11.     The method of claim 1 wherein the nitric oxide-containing gas is
   administered before onset of the disease, disorder or condition.
   12.     The method of claim I wherein the nitric oxide-containing gas is
   administered after onset of the disease, disorder or condition.
 5 13.     The method of claim 1, wherein the nitric oxide-containing gas is
   administered directly into an artery of the patient.
   14.     The method of claim 13, wherein administration is by injection or
   continuous infusion.
   15.     An   apparatus   for administration    of nitric oxide-containing gas to
10 arterialized blood comprising an extracorporeal oxygenation system, wherein the
   extracorporeal oxygenation system comprises a receptacle for holding or
   generating nitric oxide-containing gas and a device for delivery of the nitric oxide
   containing gas into oxygenated blood prior to infusion of the oxygenated blood
   into the body of a patient.
15 16.     The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the device for delivery of the nitric
   oxide-containing gas is a metering device, an injector or a pump.
   17.     The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising an arterial cannula for
   infusion of oxygenated blood into the body of the patient.
   18.     The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a venous cannula for
20 withdrawal of blood from the patient.
   19.     The method of claim 4, wherein the ECMO comprises an oxygenation
   compartment, a first gas exchange membrane which exchanges oxygen for C02
   in blood to produce arterialized blood, and a second gas exchange membrane
   which exchanges NO for 02 in the arterialized blood.

    WO 2013/181322                                               PCT/US2013/043232
                                          20
   20.    The method of claim 19, wherein the first gas exchange membrane and
   the second gas exchange membrane are contained in the oxygenation
   compartment.
   21.    The method of claim 20, wherein the first and second gas exchange
 5 membranes     are   structurally separate   components   in  the   oxygenation
   compartment.
   22.    The method of claim 20, wherein the first and second gas exchange
   membranes are separate reaction areas within the oxygenation compartment.
   23.    The method of claim 19, wherein the first gas exchange membrane is
10 contained within the oxygenation compartment and the second gas exchange
   membrane is downstream of the oxygenation compartment.
   24.    An ECMO system comprising an oxygenation compartment, wherein the
   oxygenation compartment contains a first gas exchange membrane which
   exchanges oxygen for C02 in blood to produce arterialized blood, and a second
15 gas exchange membrane downstream of the first gas exchange membrane
   which exchanges NO for 02 in the arterialized blood.
   25.    The ECMO system of claim 24, wherein the first and second gas
   exchange membranes are structurally separate components in the oxygenation
   compartment.
20 26.    The ECMO system of claim 24, wherein the first and second gas
   exchange membranes are separate reaction areas within the oxygenation
   compartment.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
