                                        ABSTRACT
         A brake assembly for actuating a trailer parking brake, the brake assembly
  having a linear actuator movable between an extended position and a retracted
5 position, the linear actuator adapted to tension a brake cable of the trailer parking
  brake in the retracted position to actuate the trailer parking brake, the linear actuator
  operatively attachable to a frame of the trailer, and an actuation member operatively
  associated with the linear actuator to move the linear actuator between the extended
  position and the retracted position.
0

     2/4
  0      0
 000
Co-

                                               -1
                                     A BRAKE ASSEMBLY
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
 5         The present invention relates to a brake assembly. Reference will be made in
   the specification to the use of the invention with respect to trailers.       The patent
   specification describes this use but it is by way of example only and the invention is
   not limited to this use.
 O                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Parking brakes on trailers are typically applied by hand by pivoting a lever,
   which tensions a brake cable connected to one or more parking brakes attached to
   the wheels of the trailer.
           A problem with the lever is that it can be difficult for some people to move the
 5 lever to an actuated position.
           Lever actuated parking brake assemblies typically include a ratchet type
   system to lock the lever in place when the parking brake has been applied.              A
   problem with the ratchet system is that a lever needs to be further pivoted, further
   tensioning the brake cable, before the ratchet system can be disengaged so that the
 0 lever can move to a disengaged position.            In some instances it can be near
   impossible for a person to further tension the cable, so that the ratchet system can
   be disengaged, due to the amount of effort required. Over tensioning the cable can
   also lead to further problems such as cable wear and damage.
           The prior art solves the problem of the lever being difficult to move by
25 providing a longer lever or a lever extension for more leverage.
                                  OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
           It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least alleviate one or
   more of the above mentioned problems with trailer brake assemblies and/or provide
30 the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a brake assembly for
   actuating a trailer parking brake, the brake assembly having

                                               -2
            a linear actuator movable between an extended position and a retracted
   position, the linear actuator adapted to tension a brake cable of the trailer parking
   brake in the retracted position to actuate the trailer parking brake, the linear actuator
   operatively attachable to a frame of the trailer; and
 5          an actuation member operatively associated with the linear actuator to move
   the linear actuator between the extended position and the retracted position.
            Preferably, the linear actuator moves between the extended position and the
   retracted position in a linear direction.
            Preferably the linear actuator has an attachment to attach to the brake cable
 0 of the trailer parking brake.
            Preferably the actuation member is moved to move the linear actuator
   between the extended position and the retracted position.          More preferably the
   actuation member is rotated to move the linear actuator between the extended
   position and the retracted position.
 5          In one embodiment, the actuation member can be moved using a tool.
   Preferably the actuation member can be rotated using a tool. In one embodiment,
   the actuation member has a socket or a hex head which can be turned using a tool.
            In another embodiment, the actuation member is moved using a motor.
   Preferably the motor is an electric motor.
 O          In a further embodiment, the linear actuator includes a linear electric motor.
   Preferably in this embodiment, the actuation member provides a current to the linear
   electric motor to move the
            In one embodiment, the linear actuator includes a turnbuckle. Preferably, the
   actuation member is a bolt which is retained in a linear position relative to the frame
25 of the trailer. Preferably, turning the actuation member in a first direction moves the
   linear actuator towards the extended position and turning the actuation member in a
   second direction moves the linear actuator towards the retracted position.
            In another embodiment the actuation member is a worm screw. Preferably
   the linear actuator includes a worm wheel. Preferably, turning the worm screw in a
30 first direction moves the linear actuator towards the extended position and turning
   the worm screw in a second direction moves the linear actuator towards the
   retracted position. Preferably the linear actuator further includes a power screw and
   a linear member engaged with the power screw.            Preferably the worm wheel is
   operatively attached to the power screw.        Preferably turning of the power screw

                                               -3
   moves the linear member.        Preferably turning the power screw in a first direction
   moves the linear member towards the extended position and turning the power
   screw in a second direction moves the linear member towards the retracted position.
           In one embodiment, the linear actuator includes a rack gear. Preferably the
 5 actuation member is a pinion gear. Preferably, turning the pinion gear in a first
   direction moves the rack gear of the linear actuator towards the extended position
   and turning the pinion gear in a second direction moves the rack gear of the linear
   actuator towards the retracted position.
           Preferably the brake assembly includes a lock movable between an open and
 0 a locked position.    Preferably the lock is adapted to lock the linear actuator and
   prevent it from moving towards the extended position in the locked position.
   Preferably the lock is adapted to lock the linear actuator and prevent it from moving
   towards the retracted position in the locked position. Preferably the lock includes a
   key cylinder which can move the lock between the open and locked position.
 5         Preferably the brake assembly includes a sensor which is adapted to sense
   the position of the linear actuator. Preferably the sensor is adapted to sense if the
   linear actuator is in or near the extended or retracted position. Preferably the brake
   assembly provides an indication when the linear actuator is in or near the extended
   or retracted position. Preferably the indication includes a light and/or a sound.
 O         Preferably the brake assembly includes a tension or strain gauge. Preferably
   the tension or strain gauge is used to determine if sufficient tension has been applied
   to the brake cable.      Preferably the brake assembly provides an indication when
   sufficient tension has been applied to the brake cable.        Preferably the indication
   includes a light and/or a sound.         Preferably the brake assembly provides an
25 indication when sufficient tension has not been applied to the brake cable.
   Preferably the indication includes a light and/or a sound. Preferably the indication
   that sufficient tension has been applied is different to the indication that sufficient
   tension has not been applied.
           Preferably the brake assembly includes a wireless communication module.
30 Preferably the wireless communication module is adapted to communicate with a
   wireless device such as a mobile phone or a remote.             Preferably the wireless
   communication module is adapted to communicate to the wireless device if the lock
   is in the locked or open position. Preferably the wireless communication device is
   adapted to communicate to the wireless device if sufficient tension has been applied

                                                -4
   to the brake cable.      Preferably the wireless communication device is adapted to
   communicate to the wireless device if sufficient tension has not been applied to the
   brake cable.
           In one embodiment, the wireless device is adapted to communicate with a
 5 vehicle and provide an alert if the vehicle is switched on and the parking brake has
   been applied (i.e. if sufficient tension has been applied to the brake cable).
           Preferably the brake assembly includes an attachment member attachable to
   the frame of the trailer.
           In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a trailer having a
 0 brake assembly as described in this specification.
           In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a trailer having
           a parking brake;
           a linear actuator movable between an extended position and a retracted
   position, the linear actuator adapted to tension a brake cable of the parking brake in
 5 the retracted position to actuate the parking brake, the linear actuator attached to a
   frame of the trailer; and
           an actuation member operatively associated with the linear actuator to move
   the linear actuator between the extended position and the retracted position.
           The parking brake can also be referred to as a brake.
 O         Preferably the trailer includes a parking brake for at least two wheels of the
   trailer. Preferably each parking brake is actuated when the brake cable is tensioned.
           The trailer can include a caravan, a horse float, a flat bed trailer, a boat trailer,
   a camping trailer, a single axle trailer, a double axle trailer, and/or the like
           The features described with respect to one aspect also apply where
25 applicable to all other aspects of the invention. Furthermore, different combinations
   of described features are herein described and claimed even when not expressly
   stated.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30         In order that the present invention can be more readily understood reference
   will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred
   embodiment of the invention and wherein:
           Figure 1 is a schematic side view of a brake assembly according to an
   embodiment of the present invention;

                                               -5
           Figure 2 is a top view of the brake assembly of Figure 1;
           Figure 3 is a schematic top view of a brake assembly according to a second
   embodiment of the present invention; and
           Figure 4 is a is a schematic top view of a brake assembly according to a third
 5 embodiment of the present invention.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
           With reference to Figures 1 and 2, there is shown a brake assembly 10
   according to an embodiment of the present invention.          The brake assembly 10
 0 includes a linear actuator 12 movable between an extended position (not shown) and
   a retracted position (shown). The linear actuator 12 includes a turnbuckle 14 and an
   attachment 16 which connects the linear actuator 12 to a brake cable 18 of a trailer
   parking brake (not shown). The brake assembly 10 includes an actuation member
   20 attached to an attachment member 22 which is attached to a frame 24 of a trailer
 5 26.
           Turning the actuation member 20 in a first direction moves the linear actuator
   12 towards the extended position and turning the actuation member 20 in a second
   direction moves the linear actuator 12 towards the retracted position, in which the
   brake cable 18 is tensioned and the trailer parking brake (not shown) is applied. The
 0 actuation member 20 is typically turned using a ratchet with a hex socket (not
   shown).
           With reference to Figure 3, there is shown a schematic top view of a brake
   assembly 110 according to a second embodiment of the present invention. The
   brake assembly 110 includes a linear actuator 112 movable between an extended
25 position (not shown) and a retracted position (shown).      The linear actuator 112 is
   attached to an attachment member 122 which is attached to a frame 124 of a trailer
   126. The linear actuator 112 includes an attachment 116 which connects the linear
   actuator 112 to a brake cable 118 of a trailer parking brake (not shown).
           The brake assembly 110 includes an actuation member 120. The actuation
30 member 120 includes a worm screw (not shown). The worm screw turns a worm
   wheel (not shown) inside the linear actuator 112. The worm wheel is connected to a
   power screw (not shown), which engages with a linear member 128 of the linear
   actuator 112.

                                              -6
           Turning the actuation member 120 in a first direction moves the linear
   member 128 of the linear actuator 112 towards the extended position and turning the
   actuation member 120 in a second direction moves the linear member 128 of the
   linear actuator 112 towards the retracted position, in which the brake cable 118 is
 5 tensioned and the trailer parking brake (not shown) is applied.         The actuation
   member 120 is typically turned using a ratchet with a hex socket (not shown).
           The brake assembly 110 includes a lock 130 with a key cylinder 132 movable
   between an open and a lock position with a key (not shown). In the locked position,
   the lock 130 prevents the linear actuator from moving between the extended and
 0 retracted position.
           The brake assembly 110 includes a communication module 134.                 The
   communication module 134 can communicate with a mobile device such as a mobile
   phone (not shown). The communication module 134 is operatively connected to a
   sensor (not shown) which can sense the state of the lock 130. The communication
 5 module 134 can communicate the state of the lock 130 to the mobile device. The
   communication module 134 is operatively connected to a strain gauge (not shown)
   on a portion of the linear actuator 112 which can sense if sufficient force has been
   applied to actuate the trailer parking brake (not shown). The communication module
   134 can communicate the state of the trailer parking brake to the mobile device.
 0         In one embodiment (not shown), the mobile device can communicate with a
   vehicle (not shown) and determine if the vehicle is turned on. If the vehicle is turned
   on and the trailer parking brake is applied, the mobile device issues an alert to avoid
   moving the trailer with the parking brake applied.
           With reference to Figure 4, there is shown a schematic top view of a brake
25 assembly 210 according to a third embodiment of the present invention. The brake
   assembly 210 includes a linear actuator 212 movable between an extended position
   (not shown) and a retracted position (shown). The linear actuator 212 is attached to
   an attachment member 222 which is attached to a frame 224 of a trailer 226. The
   linear actuator 212 includes an attachment 216 which connects the linear actuator
30 212 to a brake cable 218 of a trailer parking brake (not shown).
           The brake assembly 210 includes an actuation member in the form of an
   electric motor 220. The motor 220 includes a pinion gear (not shown). The pinion
   gear engages with a rack portion (not shown) of a linear member 228 of the linear
   actuator 212.

                                               -7
           Rotating the motor 220 in a first direction moves the linear member 228 of the
   linear actuator 212 towards the extended position and rotating the motor 220 in a
   second direction moves the linear member 228 of the linear actuator 212 towards the
   retracted position, in which the brake cable 218 is tensioned and the trailer parking
 5 brake (not shown) is applied.       The motor 220 is typically rotated by applying a
   current via a controller (not shown).
                                        ADVANTAGES
           An advantage of the preferred embodiment of the brake assembly includes
 0 ease of use compared to a lever operated brake assembly. Another advantage of
   the preferred embodiment of the brake assembly includes a smaller footprint due to
   the lack of a lever. A further advantage of the preferred embodiment of the brake
   assembly includes an easier way to release the brake. A further advantage of a
   preferred embodiment of the brake assembly is that a worm screw can move a worm
 5 wheel, but a worm wheel is incapable of moving a worm screw. Another advantage
   of the preferred embodiment of the brake assembly includes using less force to
   actuate the parking brake. A further advantage of a preferred embodiment of the
   brake assembly is that an indication is provided when sufficient force has been
   applied to actuate the parking brake.
 0
                                         VARIATIONS
           While the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative example of this
   invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would be
   apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and
25 ambit of this invention as is herein set forth.
           Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word
   "comprise" and variations of that word such as "comprises" and "comprising", are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.

                                              -8
                                           CLAIMS
   1.      A brake assembly for actuating a trailer parking brake, the brake assembly
   having
 5         a linear actuator movable between an extended position and a retracted
   position, the linear actuator adapted to tension a brake cable of the trailer parking
   brake in the retracted position to actuate the trailer parking brake, the linear actuator
   operatively attachable to a frame of the trailer; and
           an actuation member operatively associated with the linear actuator to move
 0 the linear actuator between the extended position and the retracted position.
   2.      A brake assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the actuation member is
   rotated to move the linear actuator between the extended position and the retracted
   position, and wherein turning the actuation member in a first direction moves the
 5 linear actuator towards the extended position and turning the actuation member in a
   second direction moves the linear actuator towards the retracted position.
   3.      A brake assembly as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, further including a lock
   movable between an open and a locked position, wherein in the locked position the
 0 lock prevents the linear actuator from moving towards the extended position.
   4.      A brake assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, further
   including a tension or strain gauge, the tension or strain gauge adapted to determine
   if sufficient tension has been applied to the brake cable, and wherein the brake
25 assembly provides an indication when sufficient tension has been applied to the
   brake cable.
   5.      A trailer having a brake assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding
   claims.
30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
