                                           ABSTRACT
        An unmanned aerial vehicle, a battery module (100) and a method for controlling charge
   and discharge are provided. The battery module (100) includes a battery body disposed in an
   outer housing, a heat conduction assembly (4) connected between the outer housing and the
 5 battery body in a heat conduction manner, a first heating member (5) for heating the battery
   body, a second heating member (6) for heating the heat conduction assembly (4), a
   temperature sensor for detecting a temperature of the battery body and generating a
   temperature signal according to the detected temperature of the battery body, and a control
   assembly (7) for receiving the temperature signal and controlling the first heating member (5)
10 and the second heating member (6) according to the temperature signal.

        UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE, BATTERY MODULE AND METHOD FOR
                          CONTROLLING CHARGE AND DISCHARGE
   FIELD
 5      The present disclosure relates to a technical field of batteries, and more particularly to an
   unmanned aerial vehicle, a battery module and a method for controlling charge and discharge.
   BACKGROUND
        The effects of temperature        on a battery are presented         in two aspects. In a
10 low-temperature environment, such as in winter, a battery capacity is reduced, a battery
   temperature is too low and is not conducive to an electrochemical reaction of the battery, the
   chemical reaction is slower and energy is easily lost, which cannot meet the use requirements.
   In addition, a charge and discharge performance of the battery in the low-temperature
   environment is also lower than that in a normal temperature, even the battery cannot be
15 directly charged when the battery temperature is lower than a certain value, facing the safety
   hazards existing in the low-temperature charge. When the environmental temperature rises,
   the battery capacity increases, the chemical reaction inside the battery is obviously intensified,
   and it is series relationship between a reaction rate and the temperature, the temperature rise
   will make the internal resistance of the battery smaller, thus the battery efficiency is improved.
20 However, the higher temperature also accelerates the harmful reaction, which tends to damage
   an electrode and to cause overcharge, especially in the high-temperature summer, the heat
   production rate of the battery is greater than the heat dissipation rate, a large amount of heat is
   accumulated and the battery temperature rises. If the heat cannot be effectively dissipated, the
   capacity, service life, use stability and safety property of the battery are more significantly
25 influenced.
        Therefore, the temperature has a crucial influence on the performance of the battery, and
   the difference in battery temperature determines the service life, the stability and the safety
   property of the battery. In the power battery module in the related art, regardless of the
   high-temperature environment or the low-temperature environment, the heat dissipation

   device dissipates heat for the power battery, the power battery has a complex heat dissipation
   structure and unsatisfactory heat dissipation efficiency, resulting in an increase in the cost of
   the battery module and that the service life, the use stability and the safety property cannot be
   guaranteed.
 5
   SUMMARY
         The present disclosure seeks to solve one of the technical problems existing in the related
   art to at least some extent. Accordingly, the present disclosure provides a battery module,
   which has a simple structure, a great heat dissipation effect, a stable performance, a long
10 service life, a high safety property, and can preheat a battery.
         The present disclosure further provides a method for controlling charge and discharge of
   the above-mentioned battery module.
         The present disclosure further provides an unmanned aerial vehicle having the
   above-mentioned battery module.
15       The battery module according to embodiments of a first aspect of the present disclosure
   includes: a battery body; an outer housing, the battery body being disposed in the outer
   housing; a heat conduction assembly, the heat conduction assembly being connected between
   the outer housing and the battery body in a heat conduction manner; a first heating member,
   the first heating member being connected to the battery body and configured to heat the
20 battery body; a second heating member, the second heating member being connected to the
   heat conduction assembly and configured to heat the heat conduction assembly; a temperature
   sensor, the temperature sensor being configured to detect a temperature of the battery body
   and generate a temperature signal according to the detected temperature of the battery body;
   and a control assembly, the control assembly being electrically connected to the first heating
25 member, the second heating member and the temperature sensor separately, and being
   configured to receive the temperature signal and control the first heating member and the
   second heating member according to the temperature signal.
         In the battery module according to embodiments of the present disclosure, with the first
   heating member provided for heating the battery body, the heat conduction assembly provided
                                                    2

   to be connected between the outer housing and the battery body in the heat conduction
   manner, the second heat conduction member provided for heating the heat conduction
   assembly, and meanwhile the temperature sensor provided for detecting the temperature of the
   battery body, the control assembly of the battery module can control the first heating member
 5 and the second heating member to perform heating or stop heating according to the
   temperature signal fed back by the temperature sensor. As a result, the first heating member
   and the second heating member can be controlled to perform heating at a lower environmental
   temperature, in which the first heating member can heat the battery body directly, and the
   second heating member can transfer heat to the battery body through the heat conduction
10 assembly, so that the battery body can be preheated in the low-temperature environment to
   ensure that the battery module can be normally charged and discharged and the charge and
   discharge performance of the battery module can be improved; the first heating member and
   the second heating member are controlled to stop heating at a higher environmental
   temperature, and the heat generated by the battery body is transferred to the outer housing by
15 means of the heat conduction assembly, so that the heat generated by the battery body can be
   quickly, promptly and effectively dissipated, thereby improving the service life, the use
   stability, and the safety property of the battery module.
         In some preferred embodiments, the heat conduction assembly includes a first heat
   conduction member and a second heat conduction member connected with each other in the
20 heat conduction manner, the battery body includes a side wall and an end wall connected to an
   end of the side wall, the first heat conduction member is connected to the side wall in the heat
   conduction manner, the second heat conduction member is adjacent to the end wall, and the
   second heat conduction member is connected with the outer housing in the heat conduction
   manner.
25       In some preferred embodiments, the heat conduction assembly further includes a heat
   pipe, and the heat pipe includes a first end and a second end bendably connected to the first
   end, the first end of the heat pipe is connected with the first heat conduction member, and the
   second end of the heat pipe is connected with the second heat conduction member.
         In some preferred embodiments, a plurality of heat pipes is provided, the plurality of heat
                                                     3

   pipes is spaced apart, the first end of each heat pipe extends along a length direction of the
   first heat conduction member, and the second end of each heat pipe extends along a length
   direction of the second heat conduction member.
         In some preferred embodiments, heating power of the first heating member is less than
 5 heating power of the second heating member.
         In some preferred embodiments, a plurality of groups of the heat conduction assemblies
   is provided, and the plurality of groups of the heat conduction assemblies is spaced apart
   along a circumferential direction or a height direction of the battery body.
         In some preferred embodiments, the second heating member is a heating plate or a
10 heating film or a semi-conductive heating sheet.
         In some preferred embodiments, the battery body includes an inner casing and a plurality
   of battery cells, the inner casing includes the end wall and the side wall, the inner casing
   defines therein a plurality of accommodating spaces spaced apart, and the plurality of battery
   cells is disposed in the plurality of accommodating spaces correspondingly.
15       The method for controlling charge and discharge of the above-mentioned battery module
   according to embodiments of a second aspect of the present disclosure includes the following
   blocks. SO1: the control assembly receives the temperature signal sent by the temperature
   sensor, in which the temperature signal is generated by the temperature sensor according to
   the temperature of the battery body; and S02: when a temperature Tx corresponding to the
20 temperature signal doesn't exceed a temperature TO, the control assembly controls the first
   heating member to heat the battery body, the control assembly controls the second heating
   member to heat the heat conduction assembly, in which the temperature TO is a temperature
   threshold.
         In the method for controlling charge and discharge of the above-mentioned battery
25 module according to embodiments of the present disclosure, the temperature of the battery
   body is detected by the temperature sensor before the battery module is charged and
   discharged. When the detected temperature of the battery body doesn't exceed a set
   temperature threshold, the control assembly controls the first heating member and the second
   heating member to perform heating, so that the battery body can be preheated in the
                                                   4

   low-temperature environment. The method for controlling charge and discharge is simple and
   reliable, which can guarantee that the battery module is normally charged and discharged and
   can improve the charge and discharge performance of the battery module.
         In some preferred embodiments, when the temperature Tx exceeds the temperature TO,
 5 the control assembly controls the first heating member not to heat the battery body, and the
   control assembly controls the second heating member not to heat the heat conduction
   assembly.
         In some preferred embodiments, the temperature TO is 15'C-20'C.
         The unmanned aerial vehicle according to embodiments of a third aspect of the present
10 disclosure includes the battery module according to embodiments of the first aspect of the
   present disclosure.
         In the unmanned aerial vehicle according to embodiments of the present disclosure, by
   providing the battery module as described above, the overall performance of the unmanned
   aerial vehicle can be improved.
15
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Fig. 1 is a longitudinal sectional view of a battery module according to an embodiment
   of the present disclosure;
         Fig. 2 is a transverse sectional view of a battery module according to an embodiment of
20 the present disclosure;
         Fig. 3 is a partial schematic view of a battery module according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
         Fig. 4 is an enlarged view of portion A in Fig. 3;
         Fig. 5 is an assembly view of a battery body and a heat conduction assembly of a battery
25 module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
         Fig. 6 is an assembly view of a battery body and a heat conduction assembly of a battery
   module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure in another perspective; and
         Fig. 7 is a schematic view of a battery body of a battery module according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                                     5

          Reference numerals:
          battery module 100;
          front side plate 11; rear side plate 12; left side plate 13; right side plate 14; top cover 15;
   first rib 16; second rib 17; rubber pad 18;
 5        inner casing 2; first side plate 21; second side plate 22; third side plate 23; fourth side
   plate 24; partition plate 25; accommodating space 26;
          battery cell 3;
          heat conduction assembly 4, first heat conduction member 41; second heat conduction
   member 42; groove 421; heat pipe 43;
10        first heating member 5; second heating member 6;
          control assembly 7.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          The embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail below. Examples
15 of the embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The embodiments
   described below with reference to the accompanying drawings are exemplary, and are
   intended to explain the present disclosure, but cannot be understood as a limitation to the
   present disclosure.
          In the description of the present disclosure, it should be understood that the terms
20 "center", "longitudinal", "transverse", "length", "width", "thickness", "upper", "lower",
   "front", " rear", "left", "right", "vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "inner", "outer",
   "circumferential" should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown
   in the drawings under discussion. The illustrated orientation or positional relationship is
   merely for convenience of describing the present disclosure and simplification of the
25 description, and does not indicate or imply that the indicated device or element must have a
   particular orientation, be constructed and operated in a specific orientation, therefore cannot
   be understood as a limitation to the present disclosure.
          In addition, the terms "first" and "second" are only used for descriptive purposes and
   cannot be understood to indicate or imply relative importance or implicitly indicate the
                                                       6

   number of indicated technical features. Thus, the features defined with "first" and "second"
   may explicitly or implicitly include one or more of this feature. In the descriptions of the
   present disclosure, "a plurality of' means at least two, such as two or three, unless specified
   otherwise.
 5       In the present disclosure, unless specified or limited otherwise, the terms "mounted,"
   "connected," "coupled," "fixed" and the like are used broadly, and may be, for example, fixed
   connections, detachable connections, or integral connections; may also be mechanical or
   electrical connections or communicable with each other; may also be direct connections or
   indirect connections via intervening structures; may also be inner communications or
10 interacting relationship of two elements, unless specified otherwise, which can be understood
   by those skilled in the art according to specific situations.
         A battery module 100 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure will be
   described below with reference to Figs. 1-7.
         As illustrated in Figs. 1 to 7, the battery module 100 according to embodiments of the
15 present disclosure includes a battery body, an outer housing, a heat conduction assembly 4, a
   first heating member 5, a second heating member 6, a temperature sensor, and a control
   assembly 7.
          Specifically, the battery body is disposed in the outer housing, and the heat conduction
   assembly 4 is connected between the outer housing and the battery body in a heat conduction
20 manner and can transfer heat. For example, the heat conduction assembly 4 can transfer heat
   in the battery body to the outer housing, and the heat conduction assembly 4 can also transfer
   heat to the battery body.
         The first heating member 5 is used for heating the battery body, and the first heating
   member 5 can be disposed to the battery body. When the first heating member 5 operates, the
25 first heating member 5 can directly heat the battery body.
         The second heating member 6 is used for heating the heat conduction assembly 4, and
   the second heating member 6 can be disposed to the heat conduction assembly 4. When the
   second heating member 6 operates, the second heating member 6 can heat the heat conduction
   assembly 4. Since the heat conduction assembly 4 is connected between the outer housing and
                                                     7

   the battery body in the heat conduction manner, the heat conduction assembly 4 can transfer
   heat to the battery body.
        The temperature sensor is used for detecting a temperature of the battery body and for
   generating a temperature signal according to the detected temperature of the battery body. The
 5 temperature sensor can be disposed to the battery body.
        The control assembly 7 is electrically connected to the first heating member 5, the
   second heating member 6 and the temperature sensor separately. The control assembly 7 is
   used for receiving the temperature signal and for controlling the first heating member 5 and
   the second heating member 6 according to the temperature signal. That is, the control
10 assembly 7 can control the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 to
   perform heating or to stop heating according to the temperature signal generated by the
   temperature sensor according to the detected temperature of the battery body.
          Heating power of the first heating member 5 can be less than heating power of the
   second heating member 6. Thus, when the control assembly 7 controls the first heating
15 member 5 and the second heating member 6 to perform heating, it can be guaranteed that a
   temperature of the heat conduction assembly 4 heated by the second heating member 6 is
   higher than a temperature of the battery body heated by the first heating member 5, so that it
   can be guaranteed that the heat conduction member 4 can transfer heat to the battery body,
   preventing the heat of the battery body from being transferred to the outer housing to be
20 radiated out caused by the temperature of the heat conduction assembly 4 being lower than
   that of the battery body, and avoiding energy waste.
        For example, in a high-temperature environment (e.g., in summer), during the operation
   of the battery module 100, the battery body generates a large amount of heat, and the
   temperature sensor detects a higher temperature of the battery body, and the temperature
25 sensor transmits the temperature signal to the control assembly 7, and the control assembly 7
   controls the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 not to operate. The heat
   conduction assembly 4 can transfer the heat of the battery body to the outer housing, and
   eventually the heat is dissipated to the outside environment through the outer housing, so that
   the heat generated by the battery body can be dissipated to the outside environment efficiently
                                                    8

   and timely, thereby the service life, the use stability and the safety property of the battery
   module 100 can be improved.
         For another example, in a low-temperature         environment (e. g., in winter), the
   temperature of the battery body is lower, which is not conducive to the chemical reaction of
 5 the battery body, or even the battery body cannot be charged and discharged directly. The
   temperature sensor detects a lower temperature of the battery body, the temperature sensor
   transmits the temperature signal to the control assembly 7, and the control assembly 7
   controls the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 to operate. The first
   heating member 5 can directly heat the battery body, so that the temperature of the battery
10 body can be rapidly increased, meanwhile the second heating member 6 heats the heat
   conduction assembly 4, and the heat conduction assembly 4 can transfer heat to the battery
   body, whereby the battery body can be heated rapidly and evenly by the first heating member
   5 and the second heating member 6 provided. When the temperature of the battery body
   reaches a set temperature value, the battery module 100 can be charged and discharged, and
15 meanwhile the control assembly 7 can control the first heating member 5 and the second
   heating member 6 to stop heating, so that the battery body can be rapidly preheated in the
   low-temperature environment, ensuring the battery module 100 to be charged and discharged
   normally and improving the charge and discharge performance of the battery module 100.
         In the battery module 100 according to embodiments of the present disclosure, with the
20 first heating member 5 provided for heating the battery body, the heat conduction assembly 4
   provided to be connected between the outer housing and the battery body in the heat
   conduction manner,      the second heat conduction member 42 provided for heating the heat
   conduction assembly 4, and meanwhile the temperature sensor provided for detecting the
   temperature of the battery body, the control assembly 7 of the battery module 100 can control
25 the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 to perform heating or to stop
   heating according to the temperature signal fed back by the temperature sensor. As a result,
   the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 can be controlled to perform
   heating at the lower environmental temperature, in which the first heating member 5 can heat
   the battery body directly, and the second heating member 6 can transfer heat to the battery
                                                  9

   body through the heat conduction assembly 4, so that the battery body can be preheated in the
   low-temperature environment to ensure that the battery module 100 can be normally charged
   and discharged and the charge and discharge performance of the battery module 100 can be
   improved; the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 are controlled to stop
 5 heating at the higher environmental temperature, and the heat generated by the battery body is
   transferred to the outer housing by means of the heat conduction assembly 4, so that the heat
   generated by the battery body can be quickly, promptly and effectively dissipated, thereby
   improving the service life, the use stability, and the safety property of the battery module 100.
        The battery module 100 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure will be
10 described in detail with reference to Figs. 1 to 7.
        Referring to Figs. 1-7, the battery module 100 includes the battery body, the outer
   housing, the heat conduction assembly 4, the first heating member 5, the second heating
   member 6, the temperature sensor, and the control assembly 7.
        Referring to Figs. 1 and 2, the outer housing is a substantially rectangular solid. The
15 outer housing includes a front side plate 11 and a rear side plate 12 spaced apart in a front and
   rear direction, a left side plate 13 and a right side plate 14 spaced apart in a left and right
   direction, and a top cover 15 covering a top of the outer housing. The left side plate 13
   connects a left end of the front side plate 11 and a left end of the rear side plate 12, and the
   right side plate 14 connects a right end of the front side plate 11 and a right end of the rear
20 side plate 12, and lower parts of the left side plate 13 and the right side plate 14 are both
   recessed inwards. A bottom of the outer housing is constructed with a plurality of horizontally
   arranged first ribs 16, and the first ribs 16 are mutually staggered. The plurality of mutually
   staggered first ribs 16 is further provided thereon with a plurality of vertically arranged
   second ribs 17 to enhance the strength of the bottom of the outer housing. Eight corners of the
25 outer housing are respectively provided with "L"-shaped rubber pads 18, and the rubber pads
   18 can prevent the outer housing from being subjected to wear or from being subjected to an
   impact when dropped.
        Referring to Figs. 1-7, the battery body includes the inner casing 2 and a plurality of
   battery cells 3. The inner casing 2 is formed to be a rectangular solid, and the inner casing 2
                                                    10

   includes a first side plate 21 and a second side plate 22 spaced apart along the front and rear
   direction, a third side plate 23 and a fourth side plate 24 spaced apart along the left and right
   direction. The third side plate 23 connects a left end of the first side plate 21 and a left end of
   the second side plate 22. The fourth side plate 24 connects a right end of the first side plate 21
 5 and a right end of the second side plate 22. The first side plate 21 and the second side plate 22
   each constitute a side wall of the inner casing 2, and the third side plate 23 and the fourth side
   plate 24 each constitute an end wall of the inner casing 2. The inner casing 2 is provided with
   a plurality of partition plates 25 spaced apart along the left and right direction. A front end and
   a rear end of each partition plate 25 are connected with the first side plate 21 and the second
10 side plate 22 correspondingly. The inner casing 2 and the plurality of partition plate 25
   cooperatively define a plurality of accommodating spaces 26 mutually spaced apart, and the
   plurality of battery cells 3 is disposed in the plurality of the accommodating spaces 26
   correspondingly.
         Referring to Figs. 1-6, two groups of heat conduction assemblies 4 are provided, the two
15 groups of the heat conduction assembly 4 are arranged along the circumferential direction of
   the battery body, and each group of the heat conduction assembly 4 includes a first heat
   conduction member 41, a second heat conduction member 42 and a heat pipe 43 that
   connected with one another in the heat conduction manner. The first heat conduction member
   41 is connected to the side wall of the inner casing 2 in the heat conduction manner, and the
20 first heat conduction member 41 is in a shape of a flat plate. The second heat conduction
   member 42 is adjacent to the end wall, the second heat conduction member 42 is connected
   with the outer housing in the heat conduction manner, and the second heat conduction
   member 42 is in the shape of the flat plate.
         With continued reference to Figs. 3-6, each group of the heat conduction assembly 4
25 includes three heat pipes 43, and each of the heat pipes 43 includes a first end and a second
   end bendably connected to the first end. The first end of the heat pipe 43 is connected with the
   first heat conduction member 41, and the second end of the heat pipe 43 is connected with the
   second heat conduction member 42. The second heat conduction member 42 is provided with
   a groove 421, and the second end of the heat pipe 43 is fitted into the groove 421, so that a
                                                    11

   heat exchange area of the heat pipe 43 and the second heat conduction member 42 can be
   increased. The three heat pipes 43 are spaced apart in the up and down direction, and the first
   end of each heat pipe 43 extends along a length direction of the first heat conduction member
   41 ( "the length direction of the first heat conduction member 41" refers to a direction of the
 5 first heat conduction member 41 extending in a circumferential direction of the inner casing
   2), and the second end of each heat pipe 43 extends along a length direction of the second
   heat conduction member 42 ( "the length direction of the second heat conduction member 42"
   refers to a direction of the second heat conduction member 42 extending along the
   circumferential direction of the inner casing 2).
10       Referring to Figs. 1, 3 and 6, the first heating member 5 is a heating plate or a heating
   film, and a plurality of first heating members 5 is provided. The second heating member 6 is a
   heating plate or a heating film, and two second heating members 6 are provided.
         The assembly process of the battery module 100 according to an embodiment of the
   present disclosure is described below with reference to Figs. 1 to 7.
15       Referring to Figs. 5-7, the plurality of the first heating members 5 is attached to the left
   side walls and the right side walls of the plurality of partition plates 25 separately, and the two
   second heating members 6 are attached to the two second heat conduction members 42 of the
   two heat conduction assemblies 4 correspondingly.
         Referring to Figs. 3-6, the two groups of the heat conduction assemblies 4 are assembled.
20 The first ends of the three heat pipes 43 in each group of the heat conduction assembly 4 are
   connected with the first heat conduction member 41, and the second ends of the heat pipes 43
   are fitted in the grooves 421 of the second heat conduction members 42. When the two groups
   of the heat conduction assemblies 4 are assembled, the maximum surfaces of the two first heat
   conduction members 41 in the two groups of the heat conduction assemblies 4 are attached to
25 the first side plate 21 and the second side plate 22 of the inner casing 2 correspondingly, and
   the two second heat conduction members 42 in the two groups of the heat conduction
   assemblies 4 are adjacent to the third side plate 23 and the fourth side plate 24 of the inner
   casing 2 correspondingly, and a side wall of the second heat conduction member 42 attached
   with the second heating member 6 is enabled to face the inner casing 2.
                                                    12

         Referring to Figs. 1 and 2, the assembled battery body and the heat conduction assembly
   4 are placed in the outer housing, the two second heat conduction members 42 in the two
   groups of the heat conduction assemblies 4 are attached to an inner wall of the left side plate
   13 and an inner wall of the right side plate14 of the outer housing correspondingly. The
 5 plurality of the battery cells 3 is placed in the plurality of accommodating spaces 26 of the
   inner casing 2 correspondingly.
         Referring to Figs. 1 and 3, the control assembly 7 is placed above the battery body and is
   electrically connected with the plurality of the first heating member 5, the two second heating
   members 6, the temperature sensor and the plurality of battery cells 3 separately by means of
10 wire bundles. Finally, the top cover 15 is covered on the top of the outer housing, and the
   assembly of the battery module 100 is finished.
         The beneficial effects of the present disclosure:
         1) with the first temperature member 5, the second heating member 6 and the heat
   conduction assembly 4 provided as well as the temperature sensor and the control assembly 7
15 provided, the battery module 100 in the low-temperature environment can be rapidly
   preheated and then be charged and discharged, ensuring that the battery module 100 can be
   normally charged and discharged in the low-temperature environment and that the charge and
   discharge performance of the battery module 100 can be improved; meanwhile, the heat
   generated by the battery body can be dissipated effectively, quickly and promptly by
20 transferring the heat generated by the battery body to the outer housing by means of the heat
   conduction assembly 4 when the battery module 100 is in the high-temperature environment,
   so that the heat generated by the battery body can be rapidly, timely and effectively dissipated,
   and then the service life, the use stability and the safety property of the battery module 100
   can be improved.
25       2) The first heat conduction member 41 and the second heat conduction member 42 in
   the heat conduction assembly 4 are each formed in the shape of the flat plate, which can
   increase the heat conduction area and improve the heat conduction effect.
         3) With the heat pipe 43 provided being connected between the first heat conduction
   member 41 and the second heat conduction member 42, the principle of the heat pipe 43 can
                                                    13

   be used for rapid heat conduction and the heat pipe 43 can be recycled.
        4) With the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 being configured to
   be the heating film or the heating plate, the heating efficiency and heating uniformity can be
   improved.
 5      5) By making the heating power of the first heating member 5 less than the heating
   power of the second heating member 6, when the battery body is heated, it can be guaranteed
   that the heat can be transferred from the second heating member 6 to the battery body,
   ensuring the heating efficiency and meanwhile avoiding the energy waste.
        In other embodiments, a plurality of groups of heat conduction assemblies 4 is provided,
10 and the plurality of groups of the heat conduction assemblies 4 is spaced apart along the
   height direction of the battery body.
        In other embodiments, each group of the heat conduction assembly 4 can include only
   one heat pipe 43, and the heat pipe 43 can be formed into a shape of a flat tube.
        In other embodiments, the second heating member 6 can be a semiconductor heating
15 sheet (or a semiconductor cooling sheet) attached between the two second heat conduction
   members 42 of the two heat conduction assemblies 4 and the outer housing, and a direction of
   the electric current through the semiconductor heating sheet can be changed so that a surface
   of the semiconductor heating sheet facing the battery body is a heating surface.
        A method for controlling charge and discharge of the battery module 100 according to an
20 embodiment of the present disclosure is described below.
        The method for controlling charge and discharge of the battery module 100 includes the
   following blocks.
         SO1. The control assembly 7 receives the temperature signal sent by the temperature
   sensor, in which the temperature signal is generated by the temperature sensor according to
25 the temperature of the battery body. When the battery body includes the plurality of battery
   cells 3, the temperature of the battery body is an average temperature of the plurality of
   battery cells 3.
         S02. The control assembly 7 judges a temperature Tx corresponding to the received
   temperature signal, in which the temperature Tx can represent the temperature of the battery
                                                  14

   body. When the temperature Tx does not exceed the temperature TO, the control assembly 7
   controls the first heating member 5 to heat the battery body, and the control assembly 7
   controls the second heating member 6 to heat the heat conduction assembly 4. The
   temperature TO is a temperature threshold, which for example, may be 15'C-20 'C.
 5      For example, when the temperature Tx of the battery body detected by the temperature
   sensor does not exceed the temperature TO, the control assembly 7 can control the first
   heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 to perform heating, so that the battery
   body can be quickly preheated, thereby a proper temperature of the battery module 100 before
   charge and discharge can be guaranteed, and the charge and discharge performance of the
10 battery module 100 is ensured.
        In the method for controlling charge and discharge of the battery module 100 according
   to the embodiment of the present disclosure, the temperature of the battery body is detected
   by the temperature sensor before the battery module 100 is charged and discharged. When the
   detected temperature of the battery body doesn't exceed the set temperature threshold, the
15 control assembly 7 controls the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 to
   perform heating, so that the battery body can be preheated in the low-temperature
   environment. The method for controlling charge and discharge is simple and reliable, which
   can guarantee that the battery module 100 is normally charged and discharged and can
   improve the charge and discharge performance of the battery module 100.
20      In some embodiments of the present disclosure, when the temperature Tx exceeds the
   temperature TO, the control assembly 7 controls the first heating member 5 not to heat the
   battery body, and the control assembly 7 controls the second heating member 6 not to heat the
   heat conduction assembly 4. Thus, the battery body can be prevented from overheating, and
   the energy waste can be prevented.
25      For example, in the low-temperature environment, the battery body needs to be
   preheated. When the battery body is heated to the temperature TO, the battery body can be
   charged and discharged, and the battery body generates heat during charge and discharge.
   When the temperature of the battery body is greater than the temperature TO, the control
   assembly 7 controls the first heating member 5 and the second heating member 6 to stop
                                                 15

   heating, so that the temperature of the battery body can be maintained in a proper range and
   the energy waste can be prevented.
         For another example, in the high-temperature environment, when the temperature of the
   battery body is greater than the temperature TO, the battery body does not need to be
 5 preheated. In this case, the control assembly 7 controls the first heating member 5 and the
   second heating member 6 not to perform heating, so that the battery body can be prevented
   from overheating.
         The unmanned aerial vehicle according to embodiments of a third aspect of the present
   disclosure includes the battery module 100 according to embodiments of the first aspect of the
10 present disclosure, and the battery module 100 can provide power for the unmanned aerial
   vehicle.
         In the unmanned aerial vehicle according to embodiments of the third aspect of the
   present disclosure, by providing the battery module 100 as described above, the overall
   performance of the unmanned aerial vehicle can be improved.
15       Reference throughout this specification to "an embodiment," "some embodiments," "an
   example," "a specific example," or "some examples," means that a particular feature,
   structure, material, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example
   is included in at least one embodiment or example of the present disclosure. Thus, the
   appearances of the phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily
20 referring to the same embodiment or example of the present disclosure. Furthermore, the
   particular features, structures, materials, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable
   manner in one or more embodiments or examples. In addition, those skilled in the art may
   combine and unite the different embodiments or examples and features in different
   embodiments or examples described in this specification without conflicting with each other.
25       Although embodiments of the present disclosure have been illustrated and described, it
   could be understood that the above-mentioned embodiments are explanatory and cannot be
   construed to limit the present disclosure, and changes, modifications, alternatives and
   variation can be made to the above-mentioned embodiments within the scope of the present
   disclosure by those skilled in the art.
                                                    16

   What is claimed is:
         1. A battery module, comprising:
         a battery body;
 5       an outer housing, the battery body being disposed in the outer housing;
         a heat conduction assembly, the heat conduction assembly being connected between the
   outer housing and the battery body in a heat conduction manner;
         a first heating member, the first heating member being connected to the battery body and
   configured to heat the battery body;
10       a second heating member, the second heating member being connected to the heat
   conduction assembly and configured to heat the heat conduction assembly;
         a temperature sensor, the temperature sensor being configured to detect a temperature of
   the battery body and generate a temperature signal according to the detected temperature of
   the battery body; and
15       a control assembly, the control assembly being electrically connected to the first heating
   member, the second heating member and the temperature sensor separately, and being
   configured to receive the temperature signal and control the first heating member and the
   second heating member according to the temperature signal.
         2. The battery module according to claim 1, wherein the heat conduction assembly
20 comprises a first heat conduction member and a second heat conduction member connected
   with each other in the heat conduction manner, the battery body comprises a side wall and an
   end wall connected to an end of the side wall, the first heat conduction member is connected
   to the side wall in the heat conduction manner, the second heat conduction member is adjacent
   to the end wall, and the second heat conduction member is connected with the outer housing
25 in the heat conduction manner.
         3. The battery module according to claim 2, wherein the heat conduction assembly
   further comprises a heat pipe, the heat pipe comprises a first end and a second end bendably
   connected to the first end, the first end of the heat pipe is connected with the first heat
   conduction member, and the second end of the heat pipe is connected with the second heat
                                                    17

   conduction member.
         4. The battery module according to claim 3, wherein a plurality of heat pipes is provided,
   the plurality of heat pipes is spaced apart, the first end of each heat pipe extends along a
   length direction of the first heat conduction member, and the second end of each heat pipe
 5 extends along a length direction of the second heat conduction member.
         5. The battery module according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein heating power of
   the first heating member is less than heating power of the second heating member.
         6. The battery module according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein a plurality of
   groups of the heat conduction assemblies is provided, and the plurality of groups of the heat
10 conduction assemblies is spaced apart along a circumferential direction or a height direction
   of the battery body.
         7. The battery module according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the second heating
   member is a heating plate or a heating film or a semi-conductive heating sheet.
         8. The battery module according to claim 2, wherein the battery body comprises an inner
15 casing and a plurality of battery cells, the inner casing comprises the end wall and the side
   wall, the inner casing defines therein a plurality of accommodating spaces spaced apart, and
   the plurality of battery cells is disposed in the plurality of accommodating spaces
   correspondingly.
         9. A method for controlling charge and discharge of a battery module according to any
20 one of claims 1 to 8, comprising the following blocks:
         SO1: the control assembly receiving the temperature signal sent by the temperature
   sensor, wherein the temperature signal is generated by the temperature sensor according to the
   temperature of the battery body;
         S02: when a temperature Tx corresponding to the temperature signal doesn't exceed a
25 temperature TO, the control assembly controlling the first heating member to heat the battery
   body, and the control assembly controlling the second heating member to heat the heat
   conduction assembly, wherein the temperature TO is a temperature threshold.
         10. The method according to claim 9, wherein when the temperature Tx exceeds the
   temperature TO, the control assembly controls the first heating member not to heat the battery
                                                   18

  body, and the control assembly controls the second heating member not to heat the heat
  conduction assembly.
       11. The method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the temperature TO is 15'C-20'C.
       12. An unmanned aerial vehicle, comprising a battery module according to any one of
5 claims I to 8.
                                               19







