                                        Abstract
Antibody formulations and methods useful for prophylaxis or treatment of amyloidosis,
including AA amyloidosis and AL amyloidosis.

                                                  -1
                          ANTIBODY FORMULATIONS AND METHODS
                                     RELATED APPLICATIONS
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
 5 No. 2012328739, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
           Priority is claimed to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/551,406, filed 25 October
   2011, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
           The invention resides in the technical fields of immunology and medicine.
10                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Amyloidosis is a general term that describes a number of diseases characterized by the
   existence of pathological forms of amyloid proteins, often involving extracellular deposition
   of protein fibrils, which form numerous "amyloid deposits" or "amyloid plaques," which may
   occur in local sites or systematically. These deposits or plaques are composed primarily of a
15 naturally occurring soluble protein or peptide, assembled into extensive insoluble deposits 10
   100 pm in diameter in a variety of tissue sites. The deposits are composed of generally lateral
   aggregates of fibrils that are approximately 10-15 nm in diameter. Amyloid fibrils produce a
   characteristic apple green birefringence in polarized light, when stained with Congo Red dye.
   Generally, the fibrillar composition of these deposits is an identifying characteristic for the
20 various forms of amyloid disease.
           The peptides or proteins forming the plaque deposits are often produced from a larger
   precursor protein. More specifically, the pathogenesis of amyloid aggregates such as fibril
   deposits generally involves proteolytic cleavage of an "abnormal" precursor protein into
   fragments that aggregate into anti-parallel P pleated sheets.
25         Systemic amyloidoses are a complex group of diseases caused by tissue deposition of
   misfolded proteins that result in progressive organ damage. The most common type, AL
   amyloidosis or primary amyloidosis, involves a hematological disorder caused by clonal
   plasma cells that produce misfolded immunoglobulin light chains.      Overproduction of
   misfolded light chain by plasma cells results in deposits of abnormal AL protein (amyloid), in

                                             - la
 the tissues and organs of individuals with AL amyloidosis. Clinical features of AL
amyloidosis include a

constellation of symptoms and organ dysfunction that can include cardiac, renal, and hepatic
dysfunction, gastrointestinal involvement, neuropathies and macroglossia. The mechanisms by
which amyloidogenic immunoglobulin light chains result in organ dysfunction are not well
characterized, however, it is hypothesized that both amyloid deposits and prefibrillar aggregates
may contribute to cytotoxic effects on organs observed in patients with AL amyloidosis. AL
amyloidosis is a disease entity of its own, although AL amyloidosis can occur concurrently in a
small subset (up to 15%) of patients with multiple myeloma.
        AL amyloidosis is a rare disorder with an estimated incidence of 8 in 1,000,000 people.
Only 1200 to 3200 new cases of AL amyloidosis are reported each year in the United States.
Two thirds of patients with AL amyloidosis are male and less than 5% of patients are under 40
years of age. Both the causes and origins of AL amyloidosis remain poorly understood.
        Current treatment of patients with AL amyloidosis is aimed at reducing or eliminating the
bone marrow disorder, i.e. the plasma cells that are responsible for producing the light chains,
thereby limiting or halting the production of amyloid.     The most aggressive treatment options
include stem cell transplant and high-dose chemotherapy for those patients who can tolerate it.
Other treatment regimens include combinations of drugs often used to treat hematological
malignancies, such as melphalan, prednisone, dexamethasone and proteosome inhibitors such as
bortezomib, in an attempt to reduce light chain production.      There are no currently approved
treatments for AL amyloidosis that directly target potentially toxic forms of the amyloidogenic
proteins.
        A different form of systemic amyloidosis, AA amyloidosis or secondary amyloidosis,
occurs "secondarily" as a result of other illness, such as chronic inflammatory diseases (for
example, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis) or chronic infections (for example,
tuberculosis or osteomyelitis). In secondary amyloidosis, the depositing amyloid protein is
amyloid A protein, derived from an acute-phase protein serum amyloid A. The treatment of
secondary amyloidosis is directed at treating the underlying illness.
        Thus, there is a need for therapies to treat AA amyloidosis and AL amyloidosis, which
directly target the pathological amyloid fibrils. The present invention provides pharmaceutical
formulations of 2A4 and 7D8 antibodies, and chimeric and humanized versions thereof, which
                                                -2-

show high affinity binding to both AL and AA amyloids due to a shared immunogenic epitope of
the pathological forms of these proteins.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention provides antibody formulations useful for prophylaxis and
treatment of amyloid disease.     In one aspect of the invention, a pharmaceutical formulation
comprises (a) a chimeric or humanized version of antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number
PTA-9662) or of antibody 7D8 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468), or fragment thereof,
which specifically competes for binding to antigen with 2A4 or 7D8, and/or which is directed to
an epitope comprising AEDS (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein the antibody is present at a
concentration within the range from about 1 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL; (b) histidine buffer
present at a concentration within the range from about 20 mM to about 30 mM; (c) trehalose
present at a concentration within the range from about 210 mM to about 250 mM; and (d)
polysorbate 20 present at a concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by
weight; wherein the formulation is characterized by a pH within the range from about 6 to about
7. For example, representative formulations of the invention comprise an antibody having a light
chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 4 and/or a
heavy chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 5.
More particularly, such a formulation can comprise an antibody having a light chain comprising
an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NO: 14-16, for example, an antibody having a light
chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain
comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15.
        Additional representative formulations of the invention comprise (a) an antibody having a
light chain variable region comprising three complementarity determining regions set forth as
SEQ ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, and a heavy chain variable region comprising three complementarity
regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 9, 10, and 11; and (b) an antibody having a light chain variable
region comprising three complementarity determining regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 12, 7,
and 8, and a heavy chain variable region comprising three complementarity regions set forth as
SEQ ID NOs: 9, 10, and 11.
                                               -3-

         In representative formulations of the invention, the antibody is present at a concentration
within the range from about 5 mg/mL to about 15 mg/mL (e.g., about 10 mg/mL), or present at a
concentration within the range from about 25-75 mg/mL (e.g., 50 mg/mL).
         In other representative formulations of the invention, histidine buffer is present at a
concentration of about 25 mM. The histidine buffer can comprise L-histidine and L-histidine
HCl monohydrate.       For example, L-histidine can be used at a concentration within the range
from about 16 mM to about 22 mM and L-histidine HCl monohydrate can be used at a
concentration within the range from about 4 mM to about 8 mM.
         In other representative     formulations of the invention, trehalose is present at a
concentration of about 230 mM.
         Prepared as described herein, representative formulations of the invention (a) are
characterized by an osmolality of about 300 mOsm/kg; (b) comprise less than about 10% of the
antibody present as an aggregate in the formulation; (c) further comprise a bulking agent; (d) are
sterile; and/or (e) are stable upon freezing and thawing.
         In one aspect of the invention, a formulation comprises (a) an antibody comprising a light
chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain
comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and which is
present at a concentration of about 10 mg/mL; (b) a histidine buffer present at a concentration of
about 25 mM; (c) trehalose present at a concentration of about 230 mM; (d) polysorbate 20
present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L; and (e) a pH of about 6.5.
         In another aspect of the invention, a pharmaceutical formulation comprises (a) an
antibody, which is antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662), antibody 7D8 (ATCC
Accession Number PTA-9468), or a chimeric or humanized version of antibody 2A4 or of
antibody 7D8, or fragment thereof, which specifically competes for binding to antigen with 2A4
or 7D8, and/or which is directed to an epitope comprising AEDS (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein the
antibody is present at a concentration within the range from about 50 mg/mL to about 100
mg/mL; (b) a buffer; (c) a non-reducing sugar; and (d) a non-ionic surfactant.          In particular
examples, the antibody of the disclosed formulations comprises a light chain comprising an
amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 15.
                                                 -4-

        In another aspect of the invention, the antibody formulations are lyophilized.        For
example, a representative lyophilized formulation can comprise: (a) a humanized version of
antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662) or antibody 7D8 (ATCC Accession
Number PTA-9468) or antigen binding fragment thereof; (b) histidine; (c) trehalose; and (d)
polysorbate 20. Lyophilized formulations can have a pH of between about 6 to about 7 when
reconstituted, such as pH 6.5 when reconstituted. Lyophilized formulations typically comprise
about 100 mg to about 1000 mg of the antibody. Lyophilized formulations typically comprise
polysorbate 20 at a concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by weight.
Following reconstitution, the lyophilized formulations yield an aqueous solution, for example, an
aqueous solution comprising: (a) an antibody comprising a light chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set
forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and which is present at a concentration of about 10
mg/mL; (b) a histidine buffer present at a concentration of about 25 mM; (c) trehalose present at
a concentration of about 230 mM; (d) polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L;
and (e) a pH of about 6.5. A representative lyophilized formulation comprises about 100 mg of
the antibody following reconstitution with sterile water.
        Also provided are nucleic acids encoding antibodies used to prepare the disclosed
formulations.    For example, such nucleic acids include nucleic acids comprising nucleotide
sequences encoding an antibody light chain of SEQ ID NO: 13 and nucleic acids comprising
nucleotide sequences encoding an antibody heavy chain of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16. For
example, the nucleotide sequences set forth as SEQ ID NO: 19 and SEQ ID NO: 20 (which is
identical to SEQ ID NO: 19 and further includes a sequence encoding a signal peptide) each
encode the humanized 2A4 light chain of SEQ ID NO: 13. As another example, the nucleotide
sequences set forth as SEQ ID NO: 22 and SEQ ID NO: 23 (which is identical to SEQ ID NO:
22 and further includes a sequence encoding a signal peptide) each encode the humanized 2A4
heavy chain of SEQ ID NO: 15.
        For the production of antibodies, the disclosed nucleic acids may be included in a vector,
either singly or in combination (e.g., a combination of a nucleic acid encoding a humanized 2A4
light chain and a nucleic acid encoding a humanized 2A4 heavy chain). For example, a vector
can comprise a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding any one of SEQ ID
                                                -5-

NOs: 13-16, 21, and 24; a nucleic acid comprising the nucleotide sequence of any one of SEQ ID
NOs: 19-20 and 22-23, or combinations thereof. Representative vectors of the invention include
(a) a vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a humanized 2A4 light chain set forth
as SEQ ID NO: 13 or 21 and a humanized 2A heavy chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15 or 24; (b)
a vector comprising a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19 and a
nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22; and (c) a vector comprising a
nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid having the
nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23.
        Also provided are host cells (e.g., CHO cells) having stably incorporated into their
genomes one or more of the nucleic acids disclosed herein.        For example, a host cell can
comprise in its genome a stably integrated nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence
encoding any one of SEQ ID NOs: 13-16, 21, and 24; a stably integrated nucleic acid comprising
the nucleotide sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 19-20 and 22-23, or combinations thereof.
Representative host cells of the invention include (a) host cells comprising a nucleic acid
sequence encoding a humanized 2A4 light chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 or 21 and a
humanized 2A heavy chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15 or 24; (b) host cells comprising a nucleic
acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22; and (c) host cells comprising a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:
23.
        The present invention also provides methods of preparing pharmaceutical formulations.
In one aspect of the invention, such a method comprises (a) culturing mammalian cells having
stably incorporated into their genome nucleic acids encoding the light and heavy chains of a
murine, chimeric or humanized 2A4 antibody or of a murine, chimeric or humanized 7D8
antibody so that the cells secrete the antibody into the cell culture media, and purifying the
antibody from the cell culture media; (b) and preparing a formulation comprising (i) a chimeric
or humanized version of antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662) or of antibody
7D8 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468), or fragment thereof, that specifically competes for
binding to antigen with 2A4 or 7D8, wherein the antibody is present at a concentration within the
range from about 1 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL; (ii) histidine buffer present at a concentration
                                              -6-

within the range from about 20 mM to about 30 mM; (iii) trehalose present at a concentration
within the range from about 210 mM to about 250 mM; and (iv) polysorbate 20 present at a
concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by weight; wherein the
formulation is characterized by a pH within the range from about 6 to about 7. For example, in
one aspect of the invention, mammalian cells having stably incorporated into their genomes
nucleic acids encoding the light and heavy chains of a humanized 2A4 antibody are cultured.
Mammalian cells useful for this purpose include (a) host cells having stably incorporated into
their genomes a nucleic acid sequence encoding a humanized 2A4 light chain set forth as SEQ
ID NO: 13 or 21 and a humanized 2A heavy chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15 or 24; (b) host
cells having stably incorporated into their genomes a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence
of SEQ ID NO: 19 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22; and (c)
host cells having stably incorporated into their genomes a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:
23.    In some aspects of the invention, the disclosed methods of preparing a pharmaceutical
formulation include the additional step of evaluating at least one property of antibody in the
formulation, such as physical stability, chemical stability, and/or biological activity.
         Still further provided are methods of therapeutically or prophylactically treating a human
patient having or at risk of having amyloidosis characterized by the presence of amyloid protein
fibrils, the method comprising administering to the patient an effective dosage of a formulation
of the invention. Patients amenable to treatment have an amyloid disease such as amyloid A
amyloidosis, which is characterized by the presence of amyloid A protein fibrils, or AL
amyloidosis, which is characterized by the presence of amyloid light chain-type protein fibrils.
Patients having AL amyloidosis may also suffer from an associated dyscrasis of the B
lymphocyte lineage, for example a malignancy such as multiple myeloma.
         The disclosed therapeutic and prophylactic treatment methods include combination
therapies (i.e., administration of the disclosed antibody formulations with one or more additional
drug substances) to thereby elicit synergistic results.     The two or more drug substances are
administered simultaneously or sequentially in any order, i.e., a formulation of the invention is
administered prior to administration of a second drug substance, concurrently with a second drug
substance, or subsequent to administration of a second drug substance.              For example, a
                                                 -7-

formulation of the invention can be administered concurrently or consecutively in combination
with melphalan.     As another example, a formulation of the invention can be administered
concurrently or consecutively in combination with one or more of bortezomib, melphalan,
lenalidomide and carfilzomib.
        In accordance with the disclosed therapeutic and prophylactic treatment methods,
formulations of the invention can be administered in multiple dosages, for example, at a
frequency in a range of about daily to about annually, such as at a frequency in a range of about
every other week to about every three months, or such as once a month. In one aspect, an
antibody formulation of the invention is administered intravenously at a dose in a range from
about 10 mg to about 5000 mg drug substance. For example, a formulation can be administered
at a dose in a range from about 30 mg to about 2500 mg humanized 2A4 drug substance at a
frequency in a range of about every other week to about every other month. Representative
dosages used in the disclosed methods include 30 mg, 100 mg, 300 mg, 1000 mg, 2000 mg, and
2500 mg of humanized 2A4 drug substance.
        In one aspect of the invention, a method of therapeutically or prophylactically treating a
human patient having or at risk for having light chain (AL) amyloidosis characterized by the
presence of amyloid fibrils, deposits or prefibrillar aggregates, comprises administering to the
patient an effective dosage of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising: (a) an antibody
comprising a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a
heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and
which is present at a concentration of about 10 mg/mL; (b) a histidine    buffer   present at    a
concentration of about 25 mM; (c) trehalose present at a concentration of about 230 mM; (d)
polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L; and (e) a pH of about 6.5. In such a
method, the dosage is typically from about 0.5 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg of the antibody (e.g.,
about 0.5 mg/kg to about 8 mg/kg, or about 8 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg) administered
intravenously or subcutaneously at a frequency of from about weekly to about quarterly (e.g.,
once every 28 days).
        The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical product comprising: (a)    a vial
comprising about 100 mg antibody in powder form; (b) instructions for reconstitution of the
antibody; and (c) instructions for preparing the reconstituted antibody for infusion, wherein (i)
                                               -8-

the antibody comprises a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID
NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID
NOs: 14-16; and (ii) the reconstitution instructions require reconstitution with water for injection
to an extractable volume of 10 mL.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Figures 1A-1B show various humanized 2A4 antibody light chain and heavy chain
sequences. Bold and underlining, consensus sequence for N-linked glycosylation.
        Figure 2 shows murine 2A4 and 7D8 light chain variable region (VL) and heavy chain
variable region (VH) sequences.           Double underlining,     leader sequence;     underlining,
complementarity determining region (CDR) sequences.
        Figure 3 shows humanized 2A4 version 3 light chain variable region (VL) and heavy
chain variable region (VH) sequences. Lower case, back mutations.
        Figures 4A-4B show nucleic acid sequences encoding humanized 2A4 version 3 heavy
chain (FIG. 4A) and heavy chain (FIG. 4B) sequences. Single underline, leader sequence; no
underline, variable region; double underline, constant region.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention provides antibody formulations useful for prophylaxis and
treatment of amyloid disease. In one aspect of the invention, a pharmaceutical formulation
comprises (a) a chimeric or humanized version of antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number
PTA-9662) or of antibody 7D8 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468), or fragment thereof,
which specifically competes for binding to antigen with 2A4 or 7D8, and/or which is directed to
an epitope comprising AEDS (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein the antibody is present at a
concentration within the range from about 1 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL; (b) histidine buffer
present at a concentration within the range from about 20 mM to about 30 mM; (c) trehalose
present at a concentration within the range from about 210 mM to about 250 mM; and (d)
polysorbate 20 present at a concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by
weight; wherein the formulation is characterized by a pH within the range from about 6 to about
7.
                                                -9-

        In one aspect of the invention described herein, humanized 2A4 is an IgGI, kappa isotype
version of murine 2A4.        In the course of specificity characterization of humanized 2A4, the
antibody was found to also react with high affinity and in a conformation-dependent manner with
light chain in light chain amyloid fibrils, but not with free light chain in circulation.
        The present invention provides methods for intravenous infusion of humanized 2A4
and/or humanized 7D8 antibodies to target misfolded amyloid protein in patients with AA
amyloidosis and AL amyloidosis.           Some humanized 2A4 antibodies specifically bind to
pathologic amyloid forms of AL and SAA but do not bind to the parent molecules from which
these pathologic forms are derived (SAA, native immunoglobulin light chain [LC], intact
immunoglobulin [Ig]).
I.      Pharmaceutical Formulations and Products
        I.A.      Characteristics
        Provided herein are pharmaceutical formulations comprising a chimeric or humanized
version of antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662) or of antibody 7D8 (ATCC
Accession Number PTA-9468), or fragment thereof, that specifically competes for binding to
antigen (i.e., human AA or AL protein) with 2A4 or 7D8, respectively, and/or that is directed to
the epitope AEDS (SEQ ID NO: 18). Also provided are pharmaceutical formulations comprising
murine antibody 2A4 or murine antibody 7D8, or fragments thereof. The antibody is present at a
concentration within the range from about 1 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL. The formulation is
characterized by a pH within the range from about 6 to about 7 and comprises a histidine buffer
at a concentration within the range from about 20 mM to about 30 mM, trehalose at a
concentration within the range from about 210 mM to about 250 mM; and polysorbate 20 at a
concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by weight.
        The term "humanized immunoglobulin"              or "humanized antibody"          refers to an
immunoglobulin or antibody that includes at least one humanized immunoglobulin or antibody
chain (i.e., at least one humanized light or heavy chain). The term "humanized immunoglobulin
chain" or "humanized antibody chain" (i.e., a "humanized immunoglobulin light chain" or
"humanized immunoglobulin heavy chain") refers to an immunoglobulin or antibody chain (i.e.,
a light or heavy chain, respectively) having a variable region that includes a variable framework
                                                 - 10 -

region substantially from a human           immunoglobulin or antibody        and complementarity
determining regions (CDRs) (e.g., at least one CDR, preferably two CDRs, more preferably three
CDRs) substantially from a non-human immunoglobulin or antibody, and further includes
constant regions (e.g., at least one constant region or portion thereof, in the case of a light chain,
and preferably three constant regions in the case of a heavy chain).          The term "humanized
variable region" (e.g., "humanized light chain variable region" or "humanized heavy chain
variable region") refers to a variable region that includes a variable framework region
substantially from a human immunoglobulin or antibody and complementarity determining
regions (CDRs) substantially from a non-human immunoglobulin or antibody.
        The phrase "substantially from a human immunoglobulin or antibody" or "substantially
human" means that, when aligned to a human immunoglobulin or antibody amino sequence for
comparison purposes, the region shares at least 80-90%, preferably 90-95%, more preferably 95
99% identity (i.e., local sequence identity) with the human framework or constant region
sequence,    allowing,    for   example,  for   conservative   substitutions,  consensus     sequence
substitutions, germline substitutions, backmutations, and the like.            The introduction of
conservative     substitutions,   consensus    sequence    substitutions,   germline    substitutions,
backmutations, and the like, is often referred to as "optimization" of a humanized antibody or
chain.    The phrase "substantially from a non-human immunoglobulin or antibody" or
"substantially non-human" means having an immunoglobulin or antibody sequence at least 80
95%, preferably 90-95%, more preferably, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to that of a non
human organism, e.g., a non-human mammal.
        Accordingly, all regions or residues of a humanized immunoglobulin or antibody, or of a
humanized immunoglobulin or antibody chain, except possibly the CDRs, are substantially
identical to the corresponding regions or residues of one or more native human immunoglobulin
sequences. The term "corresponding region" or "corresponding residue" refers to a region or
residue on a second amino acid or nucleotide sequence which occupies the same (i.e., equivalent)
position as a region or residue on a first amino acid or nucleotide sequence, when the first and
second sequences are optimally aligned for comparison purposes.
        In some formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain variable region comprising an
amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, or 4. In some formulations, the
                                                 - 11 -

antibody comprises a heavy chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as
SEQ ID NO: 3 or 5. In some formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain variable region
comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, or 4 and a heavy
chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 3 or 5. In
some formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain variable region comprising an amino
acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 1 and a heavy chain variable region comprising an amino
acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 3. In some formulations, the antibody comprises a light
chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 4 and a heavy
chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 5. In some
formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain variable region comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 2 and a heavy chain variable region comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 3.
        In some formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain variable region comprising
three complementarity determining regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, and a heavy
chain variable region comprising three complementarity regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 9, 10,
and 11.    In other formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain variable region comprising
three complementarity determining regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 12, 7, and 8, and a heavy
chain variable region comprising three complementarity regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 9, 10,
and 11.
        In other formulations of the present invention, the antibody comprises light chain and
heavy chain variable regions of a murine, chimeric, or humanized 2A4 antibody, or of a murine,
chimeric, or humanized 7D8 antibody, as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,928,203 and PCT
International Publication No. WO 2009/086539, each of which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety, and the light chain and heavy chain variable region sequences described
in the referenced patent and publication are specifically incorporated by reference herein.
        In some formulations, the antibody comprises a light chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 or 21 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16 and 24. The antibody can include, or not
include, the leader sequences of the above-noted light chain and heavy chain amino acid
sequences.
                                                 -12-

         In other formulations, the antibody is a fragment of a 2A4 or 7D8 antibody, including
chimeric and humanized versions thereof, such as a Fab fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab') 2
fragment, a Fv fragment or a ScFv fragment.
         In some aspects of the invention, the antibody specifically binds to aggregated amyloid
protein without specifically binding to monomeric amyloid protein (e.g., at least a 10-fold and
usually at least 100-fold lower specific binding affinity for monomeric forms of the amyloid
protein).
         In some formulations, the antibody is present at a concentration within the range from
about 5 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL.            In some formulations, the antibody is present at a
concentration within the range from about 5 mg/mL to about 15 mg/mL. In some formulations,
the antibody is present at a concentration within the range from about 25 mg/mL to about 75
mg/mL. For example, the antibody may be present at a concentration of about 10mg/mL, or
present at a concentration of about 50 mg/mL.       The antibody may be present in a sterile liquid
dosage form of about 50 mg/vial to about 500 mg/vial, or greater. For example, the antibody
may be present in a sterile liquid dosage form of about 100 mg/vial.
         Antibodies used in the disclosed formulations can be coupled with a therapeutic moiety,
such as a cytotoxic agent, a radiotherapeutic agent, an immunomodulator, a second antibody
(e.g., to form an antibody heteroconjugate), or any other biologically active agent that facilitates
or enhances the activity of a chimeric or humanized 2A4 or a chimeric or humanized 7D8
antibody. Representative therapeutic moieties include agent known to be useful for treatment,
management, or amelioration of amyloid disease or symptoms of amyloid disease.
         Antibodies used in the disclosed formulations can also be coupled with a detectable label,
for example, as useful for diagnosing an amyloid disorder, for monitoring progression of
amyloid disease, and/or for assessing efficacy of treatment. Antibodies formulated as described
are particularly useful for performing such determinations in subjects having or being susceptible
to AA amyloidosis or AL amyloidosis, or in appropriate biological samples obtained from such
subjects. Representative detectable labels that may be coupled or linked to a humanized 2A4
antibody or humanized 7D8 antibody include various enzymes, such as horseradish peroxidase,
alkaline phosphatase, beta-galactosidase,      or acetylcholinesterase; prosthetic groups, such
streptavidinlbiotin   and avidin/biotin;   fluorescent  materials,  such as   but umbelliferone,
                                                -13  -

fluorescein, fluorescein isothiocynate, rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein, dansyl
chloride or phycoerythrin; luminescent materials, such as luminol; bioluminescent materials,
such as luciferase, luciferin, and aequorin; radioactive materials, such as but not limited to iodine
(m31          3  m12,), carbon (14C), sulfur (5S), tritium ( H), indium ("1In, "In,           12In, " In,), and
technetium ( 99Tc), thallium     (201 Ti), gallium (6 8Ga, 67 Ga), palladium ( 103 Pd), molybdenum (99Mo),
xenon ( 133Xe), fluorine (18F),       mSm, mLu, 159Gd,        14 9Pm,
                                                                        40La, 17 5 Yb, 166Ho, 90y, 47Sc, 16Re,
   Re,     Pr,    Rh,  97 Ru, 6 8Ge, 57 Co,                        3
                                                                     Gd, 1 69
                                              65Zn, 85Sr, 3P,                  ,  5 Cr, 54Mn,   Se, "3Sn, and
 1 Tin; positron emitting metals using various positron emission tomographies, nonradioactive
paramagnetic metal ions, and molecules that are radiolabelled or conjugated to specific
radioisotopes.
         Therapeutic moieties and/or detectable substances may be coupled or conjugated directly
to a murine, chimeric or humanized 2A4 antibody or a murine, chimeric or humanized 7D8
antibody, or indirectly, through an intermediate (e.g., a linker) using techniques known in the art.
See e.g., Amon et al., "Monoclonal Antibodies For Immunotargeting Of Drugs In Cancer
Therapy", in Monoclonal Antibodies And Cancer Therapy, Reisfeld et al. (eds.), pp. 243-56
(Alan R. Liss, Inc. 1985); Hellstrom et al., "Antibodies For Drug Delivery", in Controlled Drug
Delivery (2nd Ed.), Robinson et al. (eds.), pp. 623-53 (Marcel Dekker, Inc. 1987); Thorpe,
"Antibody Carriers Of Cytotoxic Agents In Cancer Therapy: A Review", in Monoclonal
Antibodies 84: Biological And Clinical Applications, Pinchera et al. (eds.), pp. 475-506 (1985);
"Analysis, Results, And Future Prospective Of The Therapeutic Use Of Radiolabeled Antibody
In Cancer Therapy", in Monoclonal Antibodies For Cancer Detection And Therapy, Baldwin et
al. (eds.), pp. 303-16 (Academic Press 1985), and Thorpe et al., Immunol. Rev., 1982, 62:119-58.
         Antibodies used in the disclosed formulations also include modified forms of murine,
chimeric or humanized 2A4 antibodies, or murine, chimeric or humanized 7D8 antibodies, which
have increased in vivo half-lives relative to the corresponding unmodified antibodies.                    Such
modified forms may be prepared, for example, by glycosylation, acetylation, pegylation,
phosphorylation, amidation, derivatization by known protecting/blocking groups, proteolytic
cleavage, linkage to a cellular ligand or other protein, etc.                 As one example, representative
methods for antibody half-life extension are described in PCT International Publication No. WO
02/060919.
                                                      -14-

         The present invention encompasses antibody formulations having stability at 38OC-42 0 C
as assessed by high performance size exclusion chromatography (HPSEC) for at least about 30
days, formulations having stability at 20OC-24 0 C for at least about 1 year, and formulations
having stability at 2 0C-4 0 C for at least about 3 years.     More particularly, the disclosed
formulations exhibit low to undetectable levels of antibody aggregation and/or fragmentation, or
a low or undetectable increase of antibody fragmentation and/or aggregation above an initial
level (e.g., less than about 10% aggregation. A formulation having low to undetectable levels of
fragmentation contains at least about 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99%, of the total protein,
for example, in a single peak as determined by high performance size exclusion chromatography
(HPSEC), or in two (2) peaks (one corresponding to each of the antibody heavy chains and
antibody light chains) by reduced Capillary Gel Electrophoresis (rCGE), representing the non
degraded antibody, and containing no other single peaks having more than 5%, more than 4%,
more than 3%, more than 2%, more than 1%, or more than 0.5% of the total protein each. A
formulation having low to undetectable levels of aggregation contains no more than about 15%,
no more than about 10%, no more that about 5%, no more than about 4%, no more than about
3%, no more than about 2%, no more than about 1%, or no more than about 0.5% aggregation by
weight protein as measured by high performance size exclusion chromatography (HPSEC). For
example, in some formulations, less than about 10% of the anti-amyloid antibody is present as an
aggregate.     Stable formulations of the invention also show little or no loss of biological
activity(ies) of a chimeric or humanized 2A4 or chimeric or humanized 7D8, for example
binding affinity measurable by ELISAs and/or additional functional assays, such as at least about
at least about 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% of an initial
measurable value of a given activity.
         The histidine buffer may be present in some formulations at a concentration of about 25
mM.     In some formulations, the histidine buffer comprises L-histidine and L-histidine HCl
monohydrate.       For example, in some formulations, L-histidine is present at a concentration
within the range from about 16 mM to about 22 mM and L-histidine HCl monohydrate is present
at a concentration within the range from about 4 mM to about 8 mM.
                                               - 15 -

        In some formulations, trehalose is present at a concentration from about 210 mM to about
250 mM, for example, about 230 mM. In some formulations, a different non-reducing sugar is
used, such as sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol.
        In some formulations, polysorbate 20 is present at a concentration within the range of
about from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by weight, for example, 0.005%, 0.01%, 0.015%,
0.02%, 0.025%, 0.03%, 0.035%, 0.04%, 0.045%, or 0.05%. Alternatively, in some formulations,
polysorbate 20 is present at a concentration within the range of about from about 0.05 g/L, 0.1
g/L, 0.15 g/L, 0.2 g/L, 0.25 g/L, 0.3 g/L, 0.35 g/L, 0.4 g/L, 0.45 g/L, or 0.5 g/L.              Some
formulations include polysorbate 20 at a concentration of 0.2 g/L.
        Some formulations are characterized by a pH within the range of about 6-7, for example,
a pH of 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9, or 7.0. Some formulations have a pH of
about 6.5.
        Some formulations are characterized by an osmolality of about 300 mOsm/kg.
        A bulking agent may also be included some formulations.
        Typically, the formulations are sterile, for example, as accomplished by sterile filtration
using a 0.2 tm or a 0.22 tm filter. The formulations of the invention are also generally stable
upon freezing and thawing.
        Optionally, formulations of the invention may further comprise other excipients, such as
saccharides,    polyols,   and    amino    acids    (e.g.,  arginine,     lysine,  and    methionine).
In other aspects, the present invention also provides formulations substantially free of surfactant,
inorganic salts, additional sugars, and/or other excipients, i.e., less than about less than 0.0005%,
less than 0.0003%, or less than 0.0001% of such compounds.
        An exemplary formulation comprises an antibody comprising a light chain comprising an
amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14, 15, or 16, which is present at a concentration
of about 10 mg/mL, a histidine buffer present at a concentration of about 25 mM, trehalose
present at a concentration of about 230 mM; polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about
0.2 g/L, and a pH of about 6.5.
                                                - 16  -

        I.B.    Preparation of Pharmaceutical Formulations
        The present invention also provides methods of preparing pharmaceutical formulations.
In one aspect of the invention, such a method comprises (a) culturing mammalian cells having
stably incorporated into their genome nucleic acids encoding the light and heavy chains of
murine antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662) or of antibody 7D8 (ATCC
Accession Number PTA-9468), or of chimeric or humanized versions thereof, so that the cells
secrete the antibody into the cell culture media, and purifying the antibody from the cell culture
media; (b) and preparing a formulation comprising (i) the purified antibody present at a
concentration within the range from about 1 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL; (ii) histidine buffer
present at a concentration within the range from about 20 mM to about 30 mM; (iii) trehalose
present at a concentration within the range from about 210 mM to about 250 mM; and (iv)
polysorbate 20 present at a concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by
weight; wherein the formulation is characterized by a pH within the range from about 6 to about
7.
        In some aspects of the invention, the disclosed methods of preparing a pharmaceutical
formulation include the additional step of evaluating at least one property of antibody in the
formulation selected from the group consisting of the physical stability, chemical stability and
biological activity.
        For example, in one aspect of the invention, mammalian cells are cultured for the
production of antibodies, wherein the mammalian cells have stably incorporated into their
genomes nucleic acids encoding the light and heavy chains of a humanized 2A4 antibody.
Mammalian cells useful for this purpose include (a) host cells having stably incorporated into
their genomes a nucleic acid sequence encoding a humanized 2A4 light chain set forth as SEQ
ID NO: 13 or 21 and a humanized 2A heavy chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15 or 24; (b) host
cells having stably incorporated into their genomes a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence
of SEQ ID NO: 19 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22; and (c)
host cells having stably incorporated into their genomes a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:
23.
                                               - 17 -

         For the production of antibodies, the disclosed nucleic acids are included in a vector. In
some examples, the vector contains the nucleic acid encoding murine 2A4 of 7D8 antibody, or a
chimeric or humanized version thereof, operably linked to a suitable control sequence capable of
effecting the expression of the DNA in a host cell. Such control sequences include a promoter to
effect transcription (e.g., a constitutive promoter or inducible promoter as known in the art), an
optional operator sequence to control such transcription, a sequence encoding suitable mRNA
ribosome binding sites, enhancers, polyadenylation signals, and sequences to control the
termination of transcription and translation. The vector may be a plasmid, a phage particle (e.g.,
a viral vector such as adenovirus, adeno-associated-virus, retrovirus, herpes virus, vaccinia virus,
lentivirus, poxvirus and cytomegalovirus vectors), or simply a genomic insert. Once transformed
into a suitable host, the antibody nucleic acids may integrate into the genome of the host, or the
vector may replicate and function independently of the host genome.
         The disclosed nucleic acids are included in a vector either singly or in combination (e.g.,
a combination of a nucleic acid encoding an antibody light chain and a nucleic acid encoding an
antibody heavy chain).       For example, a vector can comprise a nucleic acid comprising a
nucleotide sequence encoding any one of SEQ ID NOs: 13-16, 21, or 24; a nucleic acid
comprising the nucleotide sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 19-20 and 22-23, or
combinations thereof. Representative vectors of the invention include (a) a vector comprising a
nucleic acid sequence encoding a humanized 2A4 light chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a
humanized 2A heavy chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15; (b) a vector comprising a nucleic acid
having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22; and (c) a vector comprising a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:
23.
         Host cells useful for preparing antibody formulations of the invention include
mammalian cells, including cells of human origin, such as monkey kidney cells, human
embryonic kidney cells, baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells, Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO)
cells, mouse sertoli cells, human cervical carcinoma (HeLa) cells, canine kidney cells, human
lung cells, human liver cells, mouse mammary tumor cells, and NSO cells. For example, a host
cell can comprise in its genome a stably integrated nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide
                                                -18  -

sequence encoding any one of SEQ ID NOs: 13-16, 21, and 24; a stably integrated nucleic acid
comprising the nucleotide sequence of any one of SEQ ID NOs: 19-20 and 22-23, or
combinations thereof.        Representative host cells of the invention include (a) host cells
comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a humanized 2A4 light chain set forth as SEQ ID
NO: 13 or 21 and a humanized 2A heavy chain set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15 or 24; (b) host cells
comprising a nucleic acid having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19 and a nucleic acid
having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22; and (c) host cells comprising a nucleic acid
having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid having the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23.
         In another aspect of the invention, a chimeric or humanized 2A4 antibody or a chimeric
or humanized 7D8 antibody is prepared by chemical synthesis and then used in the disclosed
formulations.
         Antibodies used to prepare the disclosed formulations are typically isolated or purified,
i.e., substantially free of cellular material or other contaminating proteins from the cells in which
they are produced, or substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals when
chemically synthesized. For example, an antibody that is substantially free of cellular material
includes preparations of the antibody having less than about 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%, 8 %,
5%, 2%, 1%, 0.5%, 0.1%, or less (by dry weight) of contaminating protein. When an antibody is
recombinantly produced, it is also substantially free of culture medium such that culture medium
represents less than about 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%, 8%, 5%, 2%, 1%, 0.5%, 0.1%, or less, of
the volume of the protein preparation. When an antibody is produced by chemical synthesis, it is
preferably substantially free of or separated from chemical precursors or other chemicals
involved in the synthesis of the protein. Accordingly, such antibody preparations have less than
about 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%, 8%, 5%, 2%, 1%, 0.5%, 0.1%, or less (by dry weight) of
chemical precursors or compounds other than the antibody drug substance.              Purification of
recombinantly expressed antibody can utilize any of a number of methods known in the art, such
as, for example, affinity chromatography, acid treatment, depth filtration, anion exchange
chromatography, cation exchange chromatography, nanofiltration, ultrafiltration, dialysis and
diafiltration.
         The purified antibody drug substance can be adjusted to a solution comprising any of the
                                                  - 19 -

formulations described herein, diluted to the desired concentration and stored until ready for use.
Optionally, the formulation can be stored in concentrated form until ready for use.         Liquid
formulations can be stored in frozen form, under refrigeration or at room temperature, depending
upon their stability profile, which can be determined empirically. In some instances a further
filtration step is applied. Some of the formulations described herein may be lyophilized and
stored in powder form.        Lyophilized formulations can be stored in frozen form, under
refrigeration or at room temperature, depending upon their stability profile, which can be
determined empirically.       For example, the lyophilized formulations can be stored at a
temperature of about 20 C to 80 C. In such cases, the formulation would be reconstituted prior to
administration to a patient to yield a liquid formulation having the antibody and excipients
present in the concentrations described herein. In some cases, the formulation is reconstituted in
sterile water. In some cases, the formulation is reconstituted and added to an infusion bag for
administration to the patient. The reconstituted formulation can be stored under refrigeration or
at room temperature prior to administration to a patient for a time consistent with the stability
profile. Lyophilization and reconstitution techniques are known in the art and described in the
Examples.
         Thus, the present invention also encompasses pharmaceutical products comprising
lyophilized antibody drug substance and instructions for reconstitution and use. For example, a
representative pharmaceutical product can comprise: (a) a vial comprising about 100 mg
antibody in powder form; (b) instructions for reconstitution of the antibody; and (c) instructions
for preparing the reconstituted antibody for infusion, wherein (i) the antibody comprises a light
chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain
comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16; and (ii) the
reconstitution instructions require reconstitution with water for injection to an extractable
volume of 10 mL.
II.      Methods of Diagnosis and Treatment
         Also provided are methods of therapeutically or prophylactically treating a human patient
having or at risk of having amyloidosis characterized by the presence of amyloid protein fibrils,
                                               - 20 -

the method comprising administering to the patient an effective dosage of any of the
formulations described herein.
        II.A.   Subjects Amenable to Diagnosis and Treatment
        Humanized 2A4 drug substance is to be used for the treatment of systemic amyloidosis,
such as amyloidoses involving either amyloid light chain AL or amyloid A (AA) proteins.
Systemic amyloidoses are a complex group of diseases caused by tissue deposition of misfolded
proteins that result in progressive organ damage. The most common type, AL amyloidosis or
primary amyloidosis, involves a hematological disorder caused by clonal plasma cells that
produce misfolded immunoglobulin light chains.        Overproduction of misfolded light chain by
plasma cells results in deposits of abnormal AL protein (amyloid), in the tissues and organs of
individuals with AL amyloidosis. Clinical features of AL amyloidosis include a constellation of
symptoms and organ dysfunction that can include cardiac, renal, and hepatic dysfunction, GI
involvement, neuropathy's and macroglossia. A different form of systemic amyloidosis, AA
amyloidosis or secondary amyloidosis, occurs "secondarily" as a result of other illness, such as
chronic inflammatory diseases (for example, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis) or
chronic infections (for example, tuberculosis or osteomyelitis). In secondary amyloidosis, the
depositing amyloid protein is amyloid A protein, derived from an acute-phase protein serum
amyloid A.
        Peripheral amyloidosis is be amenable to this type of amyloid-specific immunotherapy
through antibody targeting of a neo-epitope that has been identified in AA amyloid, as well as in
AL amyloid. Studies in animal models of both AA and AL have demonstrated that significant
positive therapeutic effects may be possible at reasonable doses of antibody.
        Subjects or patients amenable to treatment using the disclosed antibody formulations
include individuals at risk of disease but not showing symptoms, as well as patients presently
showing symptoms of amyloid disease.        Therefore, the present methods can be administered
prophylactically to the general population without the need for any assessment of the risk of the
subject patient. For example, the present methods are especially useful for individuals who do
have a known genetic risk autoimmune disorders.           Such individuals include those having
relatives who have experienced this disease and those whose risk is determined by analysis of
                                               - 21 -

genetic or biochemical markers. As another example, patients suffering from AA amyloidosis
can be asymptomatic for a prolonged period of time, such that clinical diagnosis of AA
amyloidosis is often delayed or missed until the amyloid deposits are extensive.          For those
patients who are symptomatic, it is estimated that only 53% of the cases are diagnosed. See e.g.,
L.E.K. Consulting, Independent Market Research (2003). Prophylactic administration disclosed
antibody formulations may reduce the incidence of AA amyloidosis.
         The present methods are especially useful for individuals who do have a known risk of,
are suspected to have, or have been diagnosed with AA amyloidosis or AL amyloidosis. Such
individuals include but are not limited to those having chronic inflammatory diseases, inherited
inflammatory diseases, and chronic microbial infections, such as rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile
chronic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthropathy, Reiter's syndrome,
Adult Still's disease, Behcet's syndrome, Crohn's disease, Familial Mediterranean Fever,
leprosy, tuberculosis, bronchiectasis, decubitus ulcers, chronic pyelonephritis, osteomyelitis,
Whipple's     disease,   myeloma,     macroglobulinemia,     immunocyte      dyscrasia, monoclonal
gammopathy, occult dyscrasia. Chronic inflammatory and infectious conditions are prerequisite
to the development of AA amyloidosis and AL amyloidosis manifested by local nodular
amyloidosis can be associated with chronic inflammatory diseases.          Individuals who do have
known risk of AA amyloidosis also include but are not limited to those having malignant
neoplasms as Hodgkin's lymphoma, renal carcinoma, carcinomas of gut, lung and urogenital
tract, basal cell carcinoma, and hairy cell leukemia. Additionally, individuals with known risk of
AA amyloidosis also include but are not limited to those having lymphoproliferative disorders
such as Castleman's Disease. Some of such patients have AA amyloidosis characterized by the
presence of amyloid A protein fibrils. Some of such patients have AL amyloidosis characterized
by the presence of amyloid light chain-type protein fibrils. Some patients have systemic organ
dysfunction attributed to AL amyloidosis, including dysfunction of the heart, kidney, liver,
peripheral nervous system, gastrointestinal system, autonomic nervous system, lung, and/or soft
tissue or lymphatic system.
         Patients amenable to treatment also include those patients who have received, are
currently receiving, or will later receive an alternate therapy, for treatment of amyloid disease or
an associated condition, such as, inflammatory diseases, chronic microbial infections, malignant
                                                 - 22 -

  neoplasms, inherited inflammatory diseases, and lymphoproliferative disorders.        For example,
  patients may also receive or have received one or more of the therapeutic agents identified herein
  with respect to combination therapies. As a particular example, patients suffering from AL may
  also receive or have received bortezomib, melphalan, lenalidomide and/or carfilzomib. For those
  patients who have previously received alternate therapies for the treatment of amyloid disease,
  such therapies may or may not have been successful by the relevant clinical measures.
          II.B.   Treatment Regimes
          As used herein, the terms "treat" and "treatment" refer to the alleviation or amelioration
  of one or more symptoms or effects associated with the disease, prevention, inhibition or delay
  of the onset of one or more symptoms or effects of the disease, lessening of the severity or
  frequency of one or more symptoms or effects of the disease, and/or increasing or trending
  toward desired outcomes as described herein.
          Desired outcomes of the treatments disclosed herein vary according to the amyloid
  disease and patient profile and are readily determinable to those skilled in the art. Generally,
  desired outcomes include measurable indices such as reduction or clearance of pathologic
  amyloid fibrils, decreased or inhibited amyloid aggregation and/or deposition of amyloid fibrils,
  and increased immune response to pathologic and/or aggregated amyloid fibrils.             Desired
  outcomes also include amelioration of amyloid disease-specific symptoms. For example, desired
  outcomes for the treatment of AL amyloidosis include a decrease in the incidence or severity of
  known symptoms, including organ dysfunction, peripheral and autonomic neuropathy, carpal
  tunnel syndrome, macroglossia, restrictive cardiomyopathy, arthropathy of large joints, immune
  dyscrasias, myelomas, as well as occult dyscrasias. As another example, desired outcomes for
  the treatment of AA include a decrease in associated inflammation, arthritis, psoriasis, microbial
  infection, malignancy, or symptoms of other preexisting or coexisting disease to which the AA
5 amyloidosis is secondary.
          Desired outcomes of the disclosed therapies are generally quantifiable measures as
  compared to a control or baseline measurement.          As used herein, relative terms such as
  "improve," "increase," or "reduce" indicate values relative to a control, such as a measurement in
  the same individual prior to initiation of treatment described herein, or a measurement in a
                                                -23  -

control individual or group. A control individual is an individual afflicted with the same amyloid
disease as the individual being treated, who is about the same age as the individual being treated
(to ensure that the stages of the disease in the treated individual and the control individual are
comparable), but who has not received treatment using the disclosed antibody formulations. In
this case, efficacy of the disclosed antibody formulations is assessed by a shift or trend away
from measurable indices in the untreated control. Alternatively, a control individual is a healthy
individual, who is about the same age as the individual being treated. In this case, efficacy of the
disclosed antibody formulations is assessed by a shift or trend toward from measurable indices in
the healthy control.   Changes or improvements in response to therapy are generally statistically
significant and described by a p-value less than or equal to 0.1, less than 0.05, less than 0.01, less
than 0.005, or less than 0.00 1 may be regarded as significant.
        In both asymptomatic and symptomatic patients, treatment according to the disclosed
methods can begin at any time before or after the diagnosis of the underlying AA or AL amyloid
diseases. Treatment typically entails multiple dosages over a period of time. Treatment can be
monitored by assaying antibody, or employing radiolabeled SAP Scintigraphy over time. If the
response falls, a booster dosage may be indicated. The response of patients with AL amyloidosis
to treatment can be monitored by assessing cardiac markers, such as NT-proBNP and/or
troponin, serum creatine, and/or alkaline phosphatase; by performing serum free light chain
(SFLC) assays, quantitative immunoglobulin assays, biopsies, serum protein electrophoresis
(SPEP), urine protein electrophoresis (UPEP), serum, urine immunofixation electrophoresis
(IFE), and/or organ imaging techniques.        An exemplary complete response (CR) can be
determined from response criteria including negative IFE of serum and urine, normal K/X ration
and/or <5 % plasma cells in bone marrow. An exemplary very good partial response (VGPR)
can be determined from a dFLC of < 40 mg/L. An exemplary partial response (PR) can be
determined from a dFLC decrease of > 50%. In the kidney, a response to treatment can be
determined, for example, from a > 50% reduction (e.g., > 0.5g/24 hours) in 24 hour urine protein
excretion in the absence of either a reduction in eGFR of > 25% or an increase in serum creatine
of > 0.5 mg/dL. In the liver, a response to treatment can be determined, for example, from a >
50% reduction in initially elevated alkaline phosphatase or a > 2 cm reduction in liver size on CT
scan or MRI. In the heart, a response to treatment can be determined, for example, from a > 30%
                                               - 24 -

and 300 ng/L reduction in NT-proBNP in patients with baseline of NT-proBNP of > 650 ng/L.
        The antibody formulation can be administered intravenously in dosage ranges from about
10 mg to about 5000 mg for the patient in question, such as, for example, about 10 mg, about 30
mg, about 100 mg, about 300 mg, about 1000 mg, about 2000 mg, or about 2500 mg. The
antibody formulation can also be administered intravenously in dosage ranges from about 0.1
mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, or from about 0.5 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg, of the host body weight.
For example, dosages can be about 0.5 mg/kg body weight, about 1.0 mg/kg, about 1.5 mg/kg,
about 2.0 mg/kg, about 4.0 mg/kg, about 5.0 mg/kg, about 8.0 mg/kg, about 10 mg/kg, about 15
mg/kg, about 16 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg, about 25 mg/kg, or about 30 mg/kg body weight. Dose
escalation for an individual patient can occur at the discretion of the prescriber in the absence of
any clinically significant occurrence that the prescriber might reasonably believe would present
an undue safety risk for the patient, such as, for example, Grade > 3 non-hematologic toxicity,
Grade > 3 nausea, vomiting or diarrhea uncontrolled by maximum antiemetic/anti-diarrhea
therapy, Grade 4 neutropenia lasting > 7 days in the absence of growth factor support, Grade 3 or
4 neutropenia of any duration accompanied with fever > 38.5 0 C and/or systemic infection, or
other Grade > 4 hematologic toxicity.
        Antibody is usually administered on multiple occasions. An exemplary treatment regime
entails administration once per every two weeks, once a month, or once every 3 to 6 months. For
example, patients can receive the antibody formulation once every four weeks as a cycle, for
example every twenty-eight days.       The dosing frequency can be adjusted depending on the
pharmacokinetic profile of the antibody formulation in the patient. For example, the half-life of
the antibody may warrant a two week frequency of dosing.          In some methods, two or more
monoclonal antibodies with different binding specificities are administered simultaneously, in
which case the dosage of each antibody administered falls within the ranges indicated. Intervals
between single dosages can be weekly, monthly or yearly. Intervals can also be irregular as
indicated by measuring blood levels of antibody to amyloid protein (e.g., AA) in the patient. In
some methods, dosage is adjusted to achieve a plasma antibody concentration of about 1-1000
 tg/ml or about 25-300 tg/ml. Alternatively, antibody can be administered as a sustained release
formulation, in which case less frequent administration is required.
        Dosage and frequency vary depending on the half-life of the antibody in the patient. In
                                               - 25 -

general, human antibodies show the longest half life, followed by humanized antibodies,
chimeric antibodies, and nonhuman antibodies. The dosage and frequency of administration can
vary depending on whether the treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic.             In prophylactic
applications, a relatively low dosage is administered at relatively infrequent intervals over a long
period of time.    Some patients continue to receive treatment for the rest of their lives.        In
therapeutic applications, a relatively high dosage at relatively short intervals is sometimes
required until progression of the disease is reduced or terminated, until a partial or complete
response is achieved, and/or until the patient shows lessening or amelioration of symptoms of
disease. Thereafter, the patent can be administered a prophylactic regime.
         The formulations disclosed herein may be provided in a dosage form that is suitable for
parenteral (e.g., intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous) administration. As appropriate for
particular applications, the formulation may be alternately provided in a dosage suitable for
rectal, transdermal, nasal, vaginal, inhalant, ocular or other administration. The pharmaceutical
formulations are typically prepared according to conventional pharmaceutical practice. See e.g.,
Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, (19th ed.) ed. A. R. Gennaro, 1995, Mack
Publishing Company, Easton, Pa. and Encyclopedia of Pharmaceutical Technology, eds. J.
Swarbrick and J. C. Boylan, 1988-1999, Marcel Dekker, N.Y.
         In one aspect of the invention, a method of therapeutically or prophylactically treating a
human patient having or at risk for having light chain (AL) amyloidosis characterized by the
presence of amyloid fibrils, deposits or prefibrillar aggregates, comprises administering to the
patient an effective dosage of a pharmaceutical formulation comprising: (a) an antibody
comprising a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a
heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and
which is present at a concentration of about 10 mg/mL; (b) a histidine      buffer   present at     a
concentration of about 25 mM; (c) trehalose present at a concentration of about 230 mM; (d)
polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L; and (e) a pH of about 6.5. In such a
method, the dosage is typically from about 0.5 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg of the antibody (e.g.,
about 0.5 mg/kg to about 8 mg/kg, or about 8 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg) administered
intravenously or subcutaneously at a frequency of from about weekly to about quarterly (e.g.,
once every 28 days).
                                                - 26 -

        II.C.   Combinational Drug Therapy Treatment Regimes
        The present invention also encompasses combination therapies for treatment or
prophylaxis of amyloid disease, particularly AA amyloidosis and AL amyloidosis.                Such
combination therapies are performed by administering an antibody formulation of the invention
in conjunction with one or more second therapeutic agents, such as another therapy to treat or
effect prophylaxis of AA amyloidosis or AL amyloidosis, as the case may be.           Combination
therapy according to the invention may also be performed in conjunction with a second therapy
is used to treat or effect prophylaxis of a disease or condition associated with amyloid disease,
such as an inflammatory disease, a chronic microbial infection, a neoplasm (including malignant
neoplasms),    an inherited    inflammatory    disease, and/or   a lymphoproliferative     disorder.
Numerous treatments are available in commercial use, in clinical evaluation, and in pre-clinical
development, any of which could be selected for use in combination with the disclosed antibody
formulations. Such treatments can be one or more compounds or treatments selected from, but
not limited to several major categories, namely, (i) non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs; e.g., detoprofen, diclofenac, diflunisal, etodolac, fenoprofen, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen,
indomethacin, ketoprofen, meclofenameate, mefenamic acid, meloxicam, nabumeone, naproxen
sodium, oxaprozin, piroxicam, sulindac, tolmetin, celecoxib,          rofecoxib, aspirin, choline
salicylate, salsalte, and sodium and magnesium salicylate); (ii) steroids (e.g., cortisone,
dexamethasone, hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone, prednisolone, prednisone, triamcinolone);
(iii) DMARDs, i.e., disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (e.g., cyclosporine, azathioprine,
methotrexate,     leflunomide,    cyclophosphamide,      hydroxychloroquine,    sulfasalazine,   D
penicillamine, minocycline, and gold); (iv) recombinant proteins (e.g., ENBREL@ (etanercept, a
soluble TNF receptor) and REMICADE@ (infliximab) a chimeric monoclonal anti-TNF
antibody); (v) stem cell transplantation; and/or (vi) chemotherapy. Patients with AL amyloidosis
may also receive treatment regimes that include drugs or combinations of drugs often used to
treat hematological malignancies, such as melphalan, prednisone, dexamethasone, lenalidomide
(REVLIMID@) and proteosome inhibitors such as bortezomib (VELCADE@), and carfilzomib
(KYPROLISTM), at dosages in the range of the standard of care.
        The duration of the combination therapy depends on the type of amyloid disease being
treated, any underlying disease associated with the amyloid disease, the age and condition of the
                                                - 27 -

patient, the stage and type of the patient's disease, how the patient responds to the treatment, etc.
A medical doctor can observe the therapy's effects closely and make any adjustments as needed.
Additionally, a person having a greater risk of developing AA amyloidosis (e.g., a person who is
genetically predisposed or previously had an inflammatory disorder or other underlying diseases)
or AL amyloidosis may receive prophylactic combination treatments to inhibit or delay the
development of AA AL aggregates such as fibrils, or as maintenance therapy post-treatment.
        When performing a combination therapy, the two or more drug substances are
administered simultaneously or sequentially in any order, i.e., a formulation of the invention is
administered prior to administering a second drug substance, concurrently with a second drug
substance, or subsequent to administration of a second drug substance.              For example, a
combination therapy may be performed by administering a first therapy prior to (e.g., 1 minute, 5
minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24
hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, 96 hours, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks, 6 weeks, 8
weeks, or 12 weeks before), concomitantly with, or subsequent to (e.g., 1 minute, 5 minutes, 15
minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours,
72 hours, 96 hours, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, or 12 weeks
after) administering a second agent/therapy.
        The dosage, frequency and mode of administration of each component of the
combination can be controlled independently. For example, one therapeutic agent/therapy may
be administered orally three times per day, while the second therapeutic agent/therapy may be
administered intramuscularly once per day. Combination therapy may be given in on-and-off
cycles that include rest periods. The compounds may also be admixed or otherwise formulated
together such that one administration delivers both compounds. In this case, each therapeutic
agent is generally present in an amount of 1-95% by weight of the total weight of the
composition. Alternatively, an antibody formulation of the invention and a second therapeutic
agent can be formulated separately and in individual dosage amounts.         Drug combinations for
treatment can be provided as components of a pharmaceutical pack.
        Preferably, the disclosed combination therapies elicit a synergistic therapeutic effect, i.e.,
an effect greater than the sum of their individual effects or therapeutic outcomes. Measurable
therapeutic outcomes are described herein. For example, a synergistic therapeutic effect may be
                                                 -28-

an effect of at least about two-fold greater than sum of the therapeutic effects elicited by the
single agents of a given combination, or at least about five-fold greater, or at least about ten-fold
greater, or at least about twenty-fold greater, or at least about fifty-fold greater, or at least about
one hundred-fold greater. A synergistic therapeutic effect may also be observed as an increase in
therapeutic effect of at least 10% compared to the sum of the therapeutic effects elicited by the
single agents of a given combination, or at least 20%, or at least 30%, or at least 40%, or at least
50%, or at least 60%, or at least 7 0%, or at least 80%, or at least 90%, or at least 100%, or more.
A synergistic effect is also an effect that permits reduced dosing of therapeutic agents when they
are used in combination.
                                             EXAMPLES
        The following examples have been included to illustrate modes of the invention. Certain
aspects of the following examples are described in terms of techniques and procedures found or
contemplated by the present co-inventors to work well in the practice of the invention. In light of
the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art, those of skill appreciate that the
following examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes,
modifications, and alterations may be employed without departing from the scope of the
invention.
Example 1. Selection of Humanized 2A4 for the Treatment of AL amyloidosis
        An IgGI, kappa isotype antibody was prepared, which is a humanized version of murine
antibody 2A4. The light chain and heavy chain sequences of representative humanized 2A4
antibodies are set forth in Figures 1A-1B and 3.            Nucleic acids encoding the particular
humanized 2A4 antibody version 3, which amino acid sequences are shown in Figure 3, are
depicted in Figures 4A-4B.
        The parent monoclonal 2A4 antibody is directed against a neo-carboxy terminal epitope
of human serum Amyloid A (sAA), resulting from cleavage of the native sAA molecule at amino
acid residue 76. The murine antibody does not cross-react with IgGs or free light chain (LC) and
it has shown broad isotype recognition of patient derived AL amyloid samples examined to date.
2A4 recognizes multiple forms of AL light chain amyloid including soluble multimer and
                                                 -29 -

insoluble deposits.     In addition, the antibody has been shown to promote regression of
amyloidoma in a mouse xenograft model. The light chain and heavy chain sequences of murine
2A4 antibody are set forth in Figure 2.
Example 2. Dose Determination for Humanized 2A4 Antibody
        Nonclinical studies in the TRIAD mouse model and the cynomolgus monkey have
utilized doses of 4 and 40 mg/kg in the mouse and 10, 50, and 100 mg/kg in the monkey.
Conversion to the Human Equivalent Dose (HED) on a mg/kg basis (most appropriate
conversion for monoclonal antibodies due to their restriction to the vascular space) gives HEDs
of 0.32 and 3.2 for the mouse and 3.2, 16, and 32 for the monkey. Based on currently available
data, the NOAEL in both species is expected to be the highest dose administered. Using a mouse
HED (most sensitive species due to dosing limitations) of 3.2 and a I OX safety factor, the MRSD
for first in man dosing would be approximately 0.32 mg/kg.            Based upon animal studies,
administration to humans is begun with a dose of 0.5 mg/kg.
Example 3. Preparation of the Expression Vector
        For generation of the final h2A4 IgGI HC vector the variable region of the heavy chain
was isolated by PCR using the plasmid CET1019AS-hygro-h2A4VH3-Sce 4.23.07 as template.
Primers used for the amplification introduced at the 5' end of the fragments an MfeI restriction
site and at the 3' end a BlpI restriction site for subcloning. The variable region was cloned into
the MfeI and BamHI digested eukaryotic expression vector pBI-61, which contains the genomic
constant regions of human IgGI of Glm(3) allotype.           The resulting recombinant expression
vector pBI-61/2A4 IgG1-REM is 9,015 base pairs in size and carries the selectable marker
dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) from hamster under the control of the DHFR promoter and
polyadenylation signal. This vector also contains the beta-lactamase gene for selection in E. coli
as well as origins of replication for E. coli (ColE1 ori), SV40 (SV40 ori) and filamentous phage
fl (fl ori). Expression of the HC is driven by the immediate early promoter/enhancer region
from human cytomegalovirus (CMV) combined with a transcription enhancing element (TE)
derived from the hamster genome.               For transcript termination and stabilization the
                                                 -30-

polyadenylation signal from hamster growth hormone is used and for enhancement of
transcription a non-coding sequence derived from the hamster genome (TE).
        Using the plasmid CETO 109AS-hu2A4VL3-hck-puro-Sce              4.19.07 as template the
variable region of the h2A4 LC was isolated by PCR introducing at the 5' end of the fragments
an SgrAI restriction site and at the 3' end a KpnI restriction site for subcloning into the final
eukaryotic expression vector pBI-60 digested with the same restriction enzymes. This vector
contains the genomic constant region of a human kappa chain.           The resulting recombinant
expression vector pBI-60/2A4 LC is 7,144 base pairs in size and contains the selectable marker
neomycin phosphotransferase mutant, which confers resistance to geneticin, under the control of
the SV40 promoter. For transcript termination the polyadenylation signal from Herpes simplex
thymidine kinase is used. This vector also contains the beta-lactamase gene for selection in E.
coli as well as origins of replication for E. coli (ColE1 ori) and filamentous phage fl (fl ori).
Expression of the LC is driven by the immediate early promoter/enhancer region from human
cytomegalovirus (CMV) combined with a transcription enhancing element (TE) derived from the
hamster genome.     For transcript termination and stabilization the polyadenylation signal from
hamster growth hormone is used and for enhancement of transcription a non-coding sequence
derived from the hamster genome (TE).
Example 4. Production of Humanized 2A4 Antibody (Pool-Derived Material)
        Humanized 2A4 was produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, grown in
chemically defined media without any bovine-derived components. Antibody was pooled from
stable transfected cells from which the production cell line was ultimately derived. The pool
derived material was purified by protein A-affinity chromatography. This material was used for
human tissue cross-reactivity studies and for a single dose pharmacokinetic (PK) study in
cynomolgus monkeys. The formulation of the humanized 2A4 antibody is 10 mg/mL antibody,
25 mM L-Histidine/L-Histidine HCl monohydrate, 230 mM Trehalose dehydrate, 0.02% (w/v)
Polysorbate (TWEEN@) 20, pH       = 6.5.
                                               -31  -

Example 5. Production of Humanized 2A4 Antibody (Clone-Derived Material)
         A single CHO cell clone was isolated from cell pools as described in Example 3, and was
used to establish the Master Cell Bank (MCB) without any bovine materials. Humanized 2A4
for nonclinical studies was manufactured at 80 L scale using the same cell cultivation and
purification processes (except scale-up modifications) as the GMP clinical version of humanized
2A4 (2,000 L scale). Material from the 2,000 L scale production may also be used in nonclinical
studies.
Example 6. Process of Manufacturing Humanized 2A4 Antibody
         Vial Thaw & Inoculum Expansion. Cells from the MCB are thawed and transferred into
an appropriate cell culture flask. The cells are incubated at approximately 37'C. The thawed
culture is propagated for one to four days (first passage after cell thaw). For sub-cultivation, an
aliquot of a grown cell culture (and a defined volume of pre-warmed, 0.22 gm or less filtered
inoculum medium) is used to reach a seed density of approximately 0.1 - 0.5 x 106 cells/mL in
standard cell culture vessels of approximately 0.02 L to 1 L working volume. As an example,
the first passages can be done in 0.125 L or 0.25 L or 0.5 L vessels, followed by passages in 1 L
vessels. A stock culture can be initiated at this cultivation stage. For preparation of inoculum
cultures for individual production fermenters, aliquots of the stock cultures are expanded to
generate cultures with up to 25 L volume. Typically, the cell culture is scaled up from 1 L
cultures to 2 or more 1 L or 2 L cultures, then to 2 or more 2 L or 3 L cultures and finally to 2 or
more cultures with up to 25 L culture volume per vessel. Grown cell suspensions from several
vessels can be pooled and used to inoculate the 80 L bioreactor. Shake flasks, T-flasks, spinner
flasks and bags can be used as standard cell culture vessels for the above cultivation steps.
         Seed Cultures in Bioreactors.     Before inoculation with cells, 0.22 gm or less filtered
growth medium is added to the bioreactors. The content of the filled bioreactors is warmed to
approximately 37'C and maintained at this temperature throughout incubation of the cells. Cells
from the inoculum cultures are transferred into the pre-warmed medium. The initial cell density
is targeted within the range of 0.1 - 0.5 x 106 cells/mL. The cells are grown in an 80 L bioreactor
and subsequently in a 400 L bioreactor. Cells are subcultivated approximately every two to four
days. At this stage, cells may be transferred to another vessel of the same or larger volume.
                                                 - 32 -

Typically, the cell culture is scaled up from 1 x 80 L bioreactor culture to 1 x 400 L culture. To
initiate the production phase, the cells are transferred from the grown 400 L cell suspension to
the production bioreactor of approximately 2,000 L working volume.
         Production culture in 2,000 L Bioreactor. Before inoculation with cells, 0.22 pm or less
filtered production medium is added to the production bioreactor.         The content of the filled
production bioreactor is warmed to approximately 37'C and maintained at this temperature
throughout incubation of the cells. The initial cell density in the production phase is targeted
within the range of 0.1 - 0.5 x 106 cells/mL. The production bioreactor is run in a fed batch
mode. To support the production of antibody and to prolong culture duration, a nutrient feed
medium is added during the production stage. The point at which to start feeding is determined
either by culture time or by cell density.      As needed, a glucose solution and / or glutamine
solution can be added during the production stage to avoid depletion of these substances during
the production period. The run time of the 2,000 L production bioreactor is typically 8 to 14
days. Pre-harvest samples are tested for sterility, mycoplasma, and adventitious virus in vitro.
         Harvest and Clarification. After 8 to 14 days of cultivation in the production phase, the
cell culture fluid is separated from the cells. After pre-harvest sampling and prior to harvest, the
pH and the temperature of the culture can be adjusted to facilitate removal of cells, debris and
particles during harvest. To remove the cells, the culture is passed through a centrifugation plus
dead-end filtration unit. The cells are centrifuged and / or retained by the membranes.         The
harvested culture fluid is passed through filters of 0.22 pm pore size or less and collected in an
appropriate container.     Residual culture fluid can be removed from the harvest system by
flushing with Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS) to recover residual product from the harvest
system. The resulting recovered product amount is collected together with the harvested culture
fluid to form the harvest pool, also called harvested cell-free culture fluid (HCCF). The pH and
temperature of the HCCF can be adjusted to facilitate the subsequent downstream processing
steps.
         Purification.  The antibody is purified from the HCCF by a series of steps involving
affinity chromatography, acid treatment, depth filtration, anion exchange chromatography, cation
exchange chromatography, nanofiltration and ultra-/diafiltration, several of which may be
performed in several cycles.     To remove contaminants the affinity chromatography process step
                                                - 33 -

specifically binds the antibody product. The HCCF is applied to the chromatography column
packed with the MabSelect matrix. The matrix binds antibody at neutral pH, while contaminants
appear in the flow through and are removed. The column is eluted in a step elution with a 100
mM acetic acid/sodium acetate solution at pH 3.5. To inactivate potential viral contaminants, the
antibody solution is incubated at room temperature for a minimum of 60 minutes at pH 3.5  0.1.
After incubation the acid treated pool is adjusted to pH 7.2 using a 2 M Trometamol solution and
subjected to depth filtration for clarification.     For anion exchange chromatography, the depth
filtered product pool is adjusted to a conductivity <7 mS/cm with Water for Injection (WFI).
The adjusted pool is applied to a chromatography column packed with            Q  Sepharose FF resin.
The antibody passes through the anion exchange matrix unbound.                  The flow through is
monitored and the antibody containing fraction is collected based on absorbance measurement.
For cation exchange chromatography, the product pool is adjusted to a pH of 5.5  0.1 by
addition of acetic acid up to a conductivity of <7.5 mS/cm with WFI. The adjusted product pool
is applied onto a chromatography column packed with SP Sepharose FF cation exchange resin.
This chromatography step is performed in a bind-elute mode. The antibody binds to the cation
exchange matrix. The column is eluted in a step elution with a 100 mM acetic acid/sodium
acetate and 138.5 mM sodium chloride solution at pH 5.5.             Potential viral contaminants are
removed by passing the antibody solution through a 0.1 gm prefilter and a Planova 20N
nanofilter at a maximum pressure of 1 bar differential pressure of the Planova 20N nanofilter.
During     ultrafiltration/diafiltration (UF/DF),    the  product   is concentrated    to the target
concentration, and the buffer is exchanged with the formulation buffer.             Concentration and
diafiltration is performed using ultrafiltration membranes having a cut-off of approximately 30
kD. The material is processed by concentrating the product to 30-100 mg/mL. The 30 kD pool is
then diafiltered with a solution of 25 mM L-Histidine, pH 6.5 and is flushed to a concentration of
about 60 - 70 mg/mL. The 30 kD pool intermediate may be stored at -40'C until formulation is
performed. For formulation, the 30 kD product pool is adjusted to a solution containing 17.5
mM L-Histidine / 7.5 mM L-Histidine Hydrochloride, 230 mM Trehalose, and 0.02% (w/v)
Polysorbate20, pH       = 6.5. The antibody is finally diluted with formulation buffer to the desired
target concentration of 10 mg/mL. The resulting drug substance is filtered through a 0.22 gm
                                                  - 34 -

filter to remove any potential adventitious microbial contaminants and particulate material. The
drug substance can be stored frozen at -40'C until filling.
Example 7. Characterization of Drug Substance Containing Humanized 2A4 Antibody
         Humanized 2A4 used for formulation is composed of two heterodimers.        Each of the
heterodimers is composed of a heavy polypeptide chain of ~ 50 kDa (449 amino acids) and a
kappa light polypeptide chain of ~ 24 kDa (219 amino acids).         The antibody protein has a
humanized amino acid sequence with a total molecular mass of approximately 147 kDa. The
four polypeptide chains of the antibody molecule are linked together by disulfide bonds. Each
heavy polypeptide chain contains one consensus sequence for N-linked glycosylation, which is
occupied (positions 299 to 301, highlighted in bold and underlining in Figure 1A). There are two
binding sites for the serum amyloid A epitope per antibody molecule.
         A competitive binding ELISA has been established to measure binding of humanized
2A4 to its antigen (CGGHEDT (SEQ ID NO: 17) when conjugated to Ovalbumin) compared to
the reference standard.
Example 8. Humanized 2A4 Drug Substance Components and Composition
         The humanized 2A4 drug substance (100 mg/vial) for clinical use is a sterile liquid
dosage form consisting of a 10 mL fill in a 25 mL vial (20R). The nonclinical humanized 2A4
drug substance (200 mg/vial) is 20 mL fill in a 25 mL vial (20R). The nonclinical and clinical
formulations of humanized 2A4 are provided in Table 1. The final formulation of the humanized
2A4 drug substance has a density of 1.034 g/mL at 20 0 C and a pH of 6.5.
                                              - 35 -

        Table 1. Composition of Nonclinical and Clinical Humanized 2A4 Drug Substance
         Component               Function      Concentration          Nominal amount (mg/vial)
                                                    (g/L)       Nonclinical Vial    Clinical Vial Size]
                                                               Size = 25 mL (20R)     = 25 mL (20R)
Humanized 2A4 drug            Active           10             200                   100
substance                     Substance
L-Histidine                   Buffer           2.72           54.4                 27.2
                              component
L-Histidine HCl               Buffer           1.57           31.4                  15.7
monohydrate                   component
Trehalose dihydrate           Tonicity         87.02          1,740.4              870.2
                              agent
Polysorbate (TWEEN@) 20       Surfactant       0.20           4.0                  2.0
Water for Injection (WFI)     Solvent          ---            Add WFI to a total   Add WFI to a total
                                                              volume of 20 mL      volume of 10 mL
Example 9. Batch Formula for Drug Product (100mg/ml vial)
        A formula was designed for a 2,600 vial batch of drug product as provided in Table 2.
                             Table 2. Batch Formula for 2,600 Vials
Ingredient                        Grade                              Quantity per Batch
Humanized 2A4 antibody            -                                  260.0 g
L-Histidine                       USP, Ph. Eur.                      70.72 g
L-Histidine HCl monohydrate       Ph. Eur.                           40.82 g
Trehalose dehydrate               USP/NF, Ph. Eur.                   2,262.52 g
Polysorbate 20                    USP/NF, Ph. Eur.                   5.20 g
Example 10. Lyophilization
        A Hof Com 26041 freeze dryer was used to lyophilize the formulated humanized 2A4
drug substance over a period of approximately 86 hours with the pressure regulated by an MKS
control system (MKS Instruments) with N 2 injection according to the program set forth in Table
                                                 - 36 -

3. The endpoint was detected by Pirani signal. During the drying mode, the vials stand directly
on the shelves without lyo plates.     The nitrogen backfill is at approximately 600 mbar with
pharma grade, sterile N 2 . The vials were then closed and sotred at 50 C within the freeze dryer.
The final drug product is stored at 2-8 0 C, protected from light. The process should yield a white
to yellowish lyo cake.
        Table 3 summarizes the program for the lyophilization of humanized 2A4 drug
substance.
                                   Table 3. Lyophilization Steps
           Step           Step No.           Time         Shelf temperature      Vacuum MKS
                                           [hh:mm]               [0C]                [mbar]
         Loading             01              00:01                  5                  off
         Freezing            02              00:15                  5                  off
                             03              00:05                  2                  off
                             04              02:00                  2                  off
                             05              01:05                -50                  off
                             06              02:30                -50                  off
                             07              00:05                -50                 0.10
     Primary Drying          08              00:40                -10                 0.10
                             09              55:00                -10                 0.10
                             10              04:30                 30                 0.10
    Secondary Drying
                             11              20:00                 30                 0.10
        Total Time                           86:11
                                                 - 37 -

Example 11. Reconstitution of Lyophilized Drug Product
         Prior to application, the lyophlisate has to be reconstituted with sterilized water for
injection.   The reconstitution of h2A4 vials has been performed according to the following
procedure under laminar air-flow. The complete flip-off-cap of the respective product vial was
removed. The rubber-stopper was also removed. The solvent was added by pipetting the
necessary volume (2x 5mL WFI using a piston pipette). When performing this action, it was
ensured that the solvent was added slowly to the lyophilized product. The vials were carefully
swirled (not shaken), until the lyophilized product was completely dissolved. The solution was
made homogenous by carefully rotating the vial end-over-end.             The dissolved material was
aliquoted according to table 1 and stored at -70'C until analysis
Example 12. Clinical Assessment of Humanized 2A4 Drug Substance
         A clinical trial is designed to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the
Phase 2 recommended dose (P2RD) of humanized 2A4 drug substance in subjects with AL
amyloidosis. Dosing will begin at 0.5 mg/kg and escalate to a high of 30 mg/kg or 2500 mg total
(whichever is lower). Initially, humanized 2A4 drug substance will be given intravenously as a
single agent every 28 days until progression of organ function or unacceptable treatment related
toxicity or withdraw of consent. If the half-life (t 1 /2 ) of humanized 2A4 drug substance from the
initial doses suggests that a different dosing schedule would be more appropriate (e.g., every two
weeks or an alternate, less frequent schedule than once every 28 days), dosing in subsequent
cohorts may be modified using an alternative dosing schedule.
                                                - 38  -

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A pharmaceutical formulation comprising:
        (a)    a chimeric or humanized version of antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number
PTA-9662) or of antibody 7D8 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468), or fragment thereof, that
specifically competes for binding to antigen with 2A4 or 7D8, wherein the antibody is present at
a concentration within the range from about 1 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL;
        (b)    histidine buffer present at a concentration within the range from about 20 mM to
about 30 mM;
        (c)    trehalose present at a concentration within the range from about 210 mM to about
250 mM; and
        (d)    polysorbate 20 present at a concentration within the range from about 0.005% to
about 0.05% by weight;
        wherein the formulation is characterized by a pH within the range from about 6 to about
7.
2.      The formulation of claim 1, wherein the antibody is a humanized version of antibody
2A4.
3.      The formulation of claim 1, wherein the antibody comprises a light chain variable region
comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 4.
4.      The formulation of claim 1, wherein the antibody comprises a heavy chain variable
region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 5.
5.      The formulation of claim 3, wherein the antibody comprises a heavy chain variable
region comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 5.
                                               - 39 -

6.     The formulation of claim 5, wherein the antibody comprises a light chain comprising an
amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as any one of SEQ ID NO: 14-16.
7.     The formulation of claim 6, wherein the antibody comprises a light chain comprising an
amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15.
8.     The formulation of claim 1, wherein the antibody comprises a light chain variable region
comprising three complementarity determining regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 6, 7, and 8, and
a heavy chain variable region comprising three complementarity regions set forth as SEQ ID
NOs: 9, 10, and 11.
9.     The formulation of claim 1, wherein the antibody is a humanized or chimeric version of
antibody 7D8 produced by ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468.
10.    The formulation of claim 1, wherein the antibody comprises a light chain variable region
comprising three complementarity determining regions set forth as SEQ ID NOs: 12, 7, and 8,
and a heavy chain variable region comprising three complementarity regions set forth as SEQ ID
NOs: 9, 10, and 11.
11.    The formulation of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the antibody is present at a
concentration within the range from about 5 mg/mL to about 15 mg/mL.
12.    The formulation of claim 11, wherein the antibody is present at a concentration of about
10 mg/mL.
13.    The formulation of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the antibody is present at a
concentration within the range from about 25-75 mg/mL.
                                             - 40 -

14.     The formulation of claim 13, wherein the antibody is present at a concentration of about
50 mg/mL.
15.     The formulation of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the histidine buffer is present at a
concentration of about 25 mM.
16.     The formulation of claim 15, wherein the histidine buffer comprises L-histidine and L
histidine HCl monohydrate.
17.     The formulation of claim 16, wherein the L-histidine is present at a concentration within
the range from about 16 mM to about 22 mM and the L-histidine HCl monohydrate is present at
a concentration within the range from about 4 mM to about 8 mM.
18.     The formulation of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the trehalose is present at a
concentration of about 230 mM.
19.     The formulation of any one of claims 1-18, which is characterized by an osmolality of
about 300 mOsm/kg.
20. The formulation of any one of claims 1-19, wherein less than about 10% of the antibody is
present as an aggregate in the formulation.
21.     The formulation of any one of claims 1-20, which further comprises a bulking agent.
22.     The formulation of any one of claims 1-2 1, which is sterile.
23.     The formulation of any one of claims 1-22, which is stable upon freezing and thawing.
24.     A pharmaceutical formulation comprising:
                                              - 41 -

       (a)     an antibody comprising a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth
as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of
SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and which is present at a concentration of about 10 mg/mL;
       (b)     a histidine buffer present at a concentration of about 25 mM;
       (c)     trehalose present at a concentration of about 230 mM;
       (d)     polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L; and
       (e)     a pH of about 6.5.
25.    The formulation of claim 24, wherein the antibody comprises a light chain comprising an
amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid
sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO: 15.
26.    A pharmaceutical formulation comprising:
       (a)     an antibody, which is antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662),
antibody 7D8 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468), or a chimeric or humanized version of
antibody 2A4 or of antibody 7D8, or fragment thereof, that specifically competes for binding to
antigen with 2A4 or 7D8, wherein the antibody is present at a concentration within the range
from about 50 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL;
       (b)     a buffer;
       (c)     a non-reducing sugar; and
       (d)     a non-ionic surfactant.
27.    A lyophilized formulation of an antibody, comprising
       (a)     a humanized version of antibody 2A4 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9662) or
antibody 7D8 (ATCC Accession Number PTA-9468) or antigen binding fragment thereof;
       (b)     histidine;
       (c)     trehalose; and
       (d)     polysorbate 20.
                                                - 42 -

28.     The lyophilized formulation of claim 27, wherein the formulation has a pH of between
about 6 to about 7 when reconstituted.
29.     The lyophilized formulation of claim 28, wherein the formulation has a pH of about 6.5
when reconstituted.
30.     The lyophilized formulation of claim 27, comprising about 100 mg to about 1000 mg of
the antibody.
31.     The lyophilized formulation of claim 27, wherein the polysorbate 20 is present at a
concentration within the range from about 0.005% to about 0.05% by weight.
32.     The lyophilized formulation of claim 27, that enables reconstitution to yield an aqueous
solution comprising:
        (a)    an antibody comprising a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth
as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of
SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and which is present at a concentration of about 10 mg/mL;
        (b)    a histidine buffer present at a concentration of about 25 mM;
        (c)    trehalose present at a concentration of about 230 mM;
        (d)    polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L; and
        (e)    a pH of about 6.5.
33.     The lyophilized formulation of claim 32, wherein the lyophilized formulation comprises
about 100 mg of the antibody and enables reconstitution with sterile water.
34.     A nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 13.
35.     The nucleic acid of claim 34 comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19.
36.     The nucleic acid of claim 35 comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20.
                                                - 43 -

37.    A nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14
16.
38.    The nucleic acid of claim 37 comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO:
15.
39.    The nucleic acid of claim 38 comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22.
40.    The nucleic acid of claim 39 comprising the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23.
41.    A vector comprising the nucleic acid of any one of claims 34-40.
42.    A vector comprising the nucleic acids of claims 34 and 38.
43.    A vector comprising the nucleic acids of claims 35 and 39.
44.    A vector comprising the nucleic acids of claims 36 and 40.
45.    A host cell having stably incorporated into its genome the nucleic acid of any of claims
34-40.
46.    The host cell of claim 45, wherein the host cell is a CHO cell.
47.    The host cell of claim 45 having stably incorporated into its genome a nucleic acid
comprising the nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 13 and a nucleic acid comprising the
nucleotide sequence encoding any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16.
                                              - 44 -

48.     The host cell of claim 38 having stably incorporated into its genome a nucleic acid
comprising the nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 19 and a nucleic acid comprising the
nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 22.
49.     The host cell of claim 38 having stably incorporated into its genome a nucleic acid
comprising the nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 20 and a nucleic acid comprising the
nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 23.
50.     The host cell of any one of claims 47-49, wherein the host cell is a CHO cell.
51.     A method of making a pharmaceutical formulation comprising:
        (a)     culturing mammalian cells having stably incorporated into their genome one or
more nucleic acids encoding the light and heavy chains of a humanized 2A4 antibody so that the
cells secrete the antibody into the cell culture media, and purifying the antibody from the cell
culture media;
        (b)     and preparing the formulation of claim 1.
52.     The method of claim 51, wherein the nucleic acid encoding the light chain of a
humanized 2A4 antibody comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 13, and
wherein the nucleic acid encoding the heavy chain of a humanized 2A4 antibody comprises a
nucleotide sequence encoding any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16.
53.     The method of claim 52, wherein the nucleic acid encoding the light chain of a
humanized 2A4 antibody comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 13, and
wherein the nucleic acid encoding the heavy chain of a humanized 2A4 antibody comprises a
nucleotide sequence encoding SEQ ID NO: 15.
54.     The method of claim 53, wherein the nucleic acid encoding the light chain of a
humanized 2A4 antibody comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19, and wherein the
                                               - 45 -

nucleic acid encoding the heavy chain of a humanized 2A4 antibody comprises the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 22.
55.      The method of claim 54, wherein the nucleic acid encoding the light chain of a
humanized 2A4 antibody comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 20, and wherein the
nucleic acid encoding the heavy chain of a humanized 2A4 antibody comprises the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23.
56.      The method of any one of claims 51-55, further comprising evaluating at least one
property of antibody in the formulation selected from the group consisting of the physical
stability, chemical stability and biological activity.
57.      The method of any one of claims 51-55, wherein the mammalian cells are CHO cells.
58.      A method of therapeutically or prophylactically treating a human patient having or at risk
for having amyloidosis characterized by the presence of amyloid protein fibrils, the method
comprising administering to the patient an effective dosage of the formulation of any one of
claims 1-33.
59.    The method of claim 58, wherein the human patient has amyloid A amyloidosis
characterized by the presence of amyloid A protein fibrils.
60.      The method of claim 59, wherein the formulation is the formulation of claim 25.
61.      The method of claim 60, wherein the human patient has AL amyloidosis characterized by
the presence of amyloid light chain-type protein fibrils.
62.      The method of claim 61, wherein the formulation is the formulation of claim 25.
                                                 - 46  -

63.     The method of claim 61 or 62, wherein the patient is also treated with one or both of
melphalan, bortezomib, lenolidomide or carfilzomib.
64.     The method of claim 63, wherein the patient is treated with melphalan and/or bortezomib
prior to treatment with the formulation of any one of claims 1-33.
65.     The method of claim 64, wherein the patient is treated with melphalan and/or bortezomib
concurrently with treatment with the formulation of any one of claims 1-33.
66.     The method of claim 64, wherein the patient is treated with melphalan and/or bortezomib
subsequent to treatment with the formulation of any one of claims 1-33.
67.     The method of any one of claims 58-66, wherein the AL amyloidosis is associated with a
dyscrasia of the B lymphocyte lineage.
68.     The method of claim 67, wherein the dyscrasia is a malignancy.
69.     The method of claim 68, wherein the malignancy is multiple myeloma.
70.     The method of any one of claims 58-69, wherein the formulation is administered in
multiple dosages.
71.     The method of claim 70, wherein the formulation is administered at a frequency in a
range of about daily to about annually.
72.     The method of claim 71, wherein the frequency is in a range of about every other week to
about every three months.
                                               - 47 -

73.     The method of any one of claims 58-72, wherein the formulation is administered
intravenously at a dose in a range from about 10 mg to about 5000 mg humanized 2A4 drug
substance.
74.     The method of claim 73, wherein the formulation is administered at a dose in a range
from about 30 mg to about 2500 mg humanized 2A4 drug substance at a frequency in a range of
about every other week to about every other month.
75.     The method of claim 73 or 74, wherein the formulation is administered once a month.
76.     The method of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the dose is about 30 mg humanized 2A4
drug substance.
77.     The method of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the dose is about 100 mg humanized
2A4 drug substance.
78.     The method of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the dose is about 300 mg humanized
2A4 drug substance.
79.     The method of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the dose is about 1000 mg humanized
2A4 drug substance.
80.     The method of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the dose is about 2500 mg humanized
2A4 drug substance.
81.     A method of therapeutically or prophylactically treating a human patient having or at risk
for having light chain (AL) amyloidosis characterized by the presence of amyloid fibrils,
deposits or prefibrillar aggregates, comprising administering to the patient an effective dosage of
a pharmaceutical formulation comprising:
        (a)    an antibody comprising a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth
                                               -48-

as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth as any one of
SEQ ID NOs: 14-16, and which is present at a concentration of about 10 mg/mL;
       (b)    a histidine buffer present at a concentration of about 25 mM;
       (c)    trehalose present at a concentration of about 230 mM;
       (d)    polysorbate 20 present at a concentration of about 0.2 g/L; and
       (e)    a pH of about 6.5.
82.    The method of claim 81, wherein the dosage is from about 0.5 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg
of the antibody administered intravenously or subcutaneously at a frequency of from about
weekly to about quarterly.
83.    The method of claim 82, wherein the frequency of administration is once every 28 days.
84.    The method of claim 82, wherein the dosage is about 0.5 mg/kg to about 8 mg/kg.
85.    The method of claim 82, wherein the dosage is about 8 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg.
86.    A pharmaceutical product, comprising:
       (a)    a vial comprising about 100 mg antibody in powder form;
       (b)    instructions for reconstitution of the antibody; and
       (c)    instructions for preparing the reconstituted antibody for infusion,
wherein:
       (i)    the antibody comprises a light chain comprising an amino acid sequence set forth
              as SEQ ID NO: 13 and a heavy chain comprising an amino acid sequence set
              forth as any one of SEQ ID NOs: 14-16; and
       (ii)   the reconstitution instructions require reconstitution with water for injection to an
              extractable volume of 10 mL.
                                               - 49 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Onclave Therapeutics Limited
                      Garidel, Patrick
                      Klein, Pamela
                      Henderson, Isaac Craig
              <120>   Antibody Formulation and Methods
              <130>   E090 1040AU
              <140>   2012328739
<removed-apn>
              <141>   04-08-2014
              <150>   PCT/US2012/061950
              <151>   10-25-2012
              <150>   61/551,406
              <151>   10-25-2011
              <160>   24
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   131
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(19)
              <223>   LEADER SEQUENCE
              <220>
              <221>   mat_peptide
              <222>   (20)..(131)
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (43)..(58)
              <223>   CDR 1
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (74)..(80)
              <223>   CDR 2
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (113)..(121)
              <223>   CDR 3
              <400>   1
                                              1

              Met Lys Leu Pro Val Arg Leu Leu Val Leu Met Phe Trp Ile Pro
<removed-date>
              Ala
                              -15                 -10                 -5
              Ser Ser Ser Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro
              Val
                      -1 1                5                   10
              Ser Leu Gly Asp Gln Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser
              Leu
<removed-apn>
                  15                  20                  25
              Val His Ser Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu His Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys
              Pro
              30                  35                  40                  45
              Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe
              Ser
                              50                  55                  60
              Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Tyr Phe
              Thr
                          65                  70                  75
              Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Leu Gly Val Tyr Phe
              Cys
                      80                  85                  90
              Ser Gln Ser Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys
              Leu
                  95                  100                 105
              Glu Ile Lys
              110
              <210>   2
              <211>   131
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(19)
              <223>   LEADER SEQUENCE
              <220>
                                             2

              <221>   mat_peptide
<removed-date>
              <222>   (20)..(131)
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (43)..(58)
              <223>   CDR1
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (74)..(80)
              <223>   CDR2
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (113)..(121)
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   2
              Met Lys Leu Pro Val Arg Leu Leu Val Leu Met Phe Trp Ile Pro
              Ala
                              -15                 -10                 -5
              Ser Ser Ser Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro
              Val
                      -1 1                5                   10
              Ser Leu Gly Asp Gln Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Leu Ser
              Leu
                  15                  20                  25
              Val His Ser Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu His Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys
              Pro
              30                  35                  40                  45
              Gly Gln Ser Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe
              Ser
                              50                  55                  60
              Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Tyr Phe
              Thr
                          65                  70                  75
              Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Leu Gly Val Tyr Phe
              Cys
                      80                  85                  90
              Ser Gln Ser Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys
                                             3

              Leu
<removed-date>
                    95                     100            105
              Glu Ile Lys
              110
              <210>      3
              <211>      138
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Mus musculus
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>      MISC_FEATURE
              <222>      (1)..(19)
              <223>      LEADER SEQUENCE
              <220>
              <221>      mat_peptide
              <222>      (20)..(138)
              <220>
              <221>      MISC_FEATURE
              <222>      (45)..(54)
              <223>      CDR 1
              <220>
              <221>      MISC_FEATURE
              <222>      (69)..(87)
              <223>      CDR 2
              <220>
              <221>      MISC_FEATURE
              <222>      (120)..(127)
              <223>      CDR 3
              <400>      3
              Met Val Leu Gly Leu Lys Trp Val Phe Phe Val Val Phe Tyr Gln
              Gly
                              -15                 -10                 -5
              Val His Cys Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Arg Leu Val
              Gln
                      -1 1                5                   10
              Pro Lys Gly Ser Leu Lys Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr
              Phe
                  15                  20                  25
              Asn Thr Tyr Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly
                                                 4

              Leu
<removed-date>
              30                   35                   40                  45
              Glu Trp Val Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile
              Tyr
                              50                  55                  60
              Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Phe Arg Asp Asp
              Ser
                          65                  70                  75
<removed-apn>
              Gln Ser Met Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Asn Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp
              Thr
                      80                  85                  90
              Ala Met Tyr Tyr Cys Val Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr
              Trp
                  95                  100                 105
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ala
              110                 115
              <210>   4
              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (humanized 2A4 light chain variable region version 3)
              <400>   4
              Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro Val Thr Pro
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Pro Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His
              Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu His Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln
              Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser Gly Val
                                             5

              Pro
<removed-date>
                    50                    55              60
              Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys
              Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Val Gly Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ser Gln
              Ser
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile
              Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>      5
              <211>      119
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (humanized 2A4 heavy chain variable region version 3)
              <400>      5
              Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Thr
              Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp
              Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile Tyr Tyr Ala
              Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Asn
              Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                               6

              Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp Thr Ala Val
<removed-date>
              Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Cys Ala Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln
              Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
<removed-apn>
              <210>   6
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(16)
              <223>   2A4 VL CDR1
              <400>   6
              Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His Ser Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu
              His
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   7
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(7)
              <223>   2A4 VL CDR2
              <400>   7
              Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser
              1               5
              <210>   8
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
                                             7

              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
<removed-date>
              <222>   (1)..(9)
              <223>   2A4 VL CDR3
              <400>   8
              Ser Gln Ser Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr
              1               5
              <210>   9
              <211>   10
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(10)
              <223>   2A4 VH CDR1
              <400>   9
              Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Thr Tyr Ala Met Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   10
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(19)
              <223>   2A4 VH CDR2
              <400>   10
              Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile Tyr Tyr Ala Asp
              Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Lys Asp
              <210>   11
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
                                             8

              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
<removed-date>
              <222>   (1)..(8)
              <223>   2A4 VH CDR3
              <400>   11
              Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   12
              <211>   16
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (1)..(16)
              <223>   7D8 VL CDR1
              <400>   12
              Arg Ser Ser Leu Ser Leu Val His Ser Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu
              His
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   13
              <211>   219
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (humanized 2A4 kappa light chain)
              <400>   13
              Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Leu Ser Leu Pro Val Thr Pro
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Pro Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser Ser Gln Ser Leu Val His
              Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu His Trp Tyr Leu Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln
              Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser Asn Arg Phe Ser Gly Val
              Pro
                                                9

                  50                  55                    60
<removed-date>
              Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys
              Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Val Gly Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ser Gln
              Ser
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile
              Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp
              Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn
              Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu
              Gln
              145                 150                 155
              160
              Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp
              Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr
              Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys His Lys Val Tyr Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser
              Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Val Thr Lys Ser Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210                 215
              <210>    14
              <211>    449
              <212>    PRT
                                            10

              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (humanized 2A4 IgG1 heavy chain variant 1 (G1m1
              allotype))
              <400>   14
              Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly
              Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Thr
              Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp
              Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile Tyr Tyr Ala
              Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Asn
              Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp Thr Ala Val
              Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Cys Ala Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln
              Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val
              Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala
              Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser
                                            11

              Trp
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155
              160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val
              Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro
              Ser
<removed-apn>
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys
              Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Arg Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp
              Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
              Pro
              225                 230                 235
              240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
              Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
              Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
              Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
              Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
              Glu
              305                 310                 315
              320
                                            12

<removed-date>
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
              Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
              Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
<removed-apn>
              Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
              Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
              Leu
              385                 390                 395
              400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
              Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
              Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
              Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   15
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (humanized 2A4 IgG1 heavy chain variant 2 (G1m3
              allotype))
                                            13

<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221>   MISC_FEATURE
              <222>   (299)..(301)
              <223>   glycosylation site
              <400>   15
              Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Thr
              Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp
              Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile Tyr Tyr Ala
              Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Asn
              Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp Thr Ala Val
              Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Cys Ala Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln
              Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val
              Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala
              Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser
              Trp
                                            14

              145                 150                 155
<removed-date>
              160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val
              Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro
              Ser
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys
              Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Arg Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp
              Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly
              Pro
              225                 230                 235
              240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile
              Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu
              Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His
              Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg
              Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys
              Glu
              305                 310                 315
              320
                                            15

              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu
<removed-date>
              Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr
              Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu
              Thr
<removed-apn>
                      355                 360                 365
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp
              Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val
              Leu
              385                 390                 395
              400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp
              Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His
              Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
              Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   16
              <211>   445
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (humanized 2A4 IgG2 heavy chain)
              <400>   16
                                            16

<removed-date>
              Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val Gln Pro Gly
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr Phe Asn Thr
              Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly Leu Glu Trp
<removed-apn>
              Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile Tyr Tyr Ala
              Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp Ser Lys Asn
              Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp Thr Ala Val
              Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Cys Ala Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln
              Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val
              Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Cys Ser Arg Ser Thr Ser Glu Ser Thr Ala Ala
              Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser
              Trp
              145                 150                 155
              160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val
              Leu
                              165                 170                 175
                                            17

<removed-date>
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro
              Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys
              Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Cys Cys Val
<removed-apn>
              Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
              Leu
              225                 230                 235
              240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro
              Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val
              Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr
              Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val
              Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys
              Lys
              305                 310                 315
              320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser
              Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro
              Ser
                          340                 345                 350
                                            18

<removed-date>
              Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val
              Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly
              Gln
                  370                 375                 380
<removed-apn>
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp
              Gly
              385                 390                 395
              400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp
              Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His
              Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   17
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   17
              Cys Gly Gly His Glu Asp Thr
              1               5
              <210>   18
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   18
              Ala Glu Asp Ser
              1
              <210>   19
              <211>   660
                                            19

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (Hu2A4 VH3VL3 hcg1,k cDNA sequence - light chain
              without signal
                     sequence)
              <400> 19
              gacgtggtga tgacccagtc ccctctgtcc ctgcctgtga cccctggcga
<removed-apn>
              gcctgcctcc       60
              atctcctgcc ggtcctccca gtccctggtg cactccaccg gcaacaccta
              tctgcactgg      120
              tatctgcaga agcctggcca gtctcctcag ctgctgatct acaaggtgtc
              caaccggttc      180
              tccggcgtgc ctgaccggtt ctctggctcc ggctccggca ccgacttcac
              cctgaagatc      240
              tcccgggtgg aggccgagga cgtgggcgtg tactactgct cccagtccac
              ccacgtgcct      300
              ttcaccttcg gcggaggcac caaggtggag atcaagcgaa ctgtggctgc
              accatctgtc      360
              ttcatcttcc cgccatctga tgagcagttg aaatctggaa ctgcctctgt
              tgtgtgcctg      420
              ctgaataact tctatcccag agaggccaaa gtacagtgga aggtggataa
              cgccctccaa      480
              tcgggtaact cccaggagag tgtcacagag caggacagca aggacagcac
              ctacagcctc      540
              agcagcaccc tgacgctgag caaagcagac tacgagaaac acaaagtcta
              cgcctgcgaa      600
              gtcacccatc agggcctgag ctcgcccgtc acaaagagct tcaacagggg
              agagtgttag      660
              <210>   20
              <211>   726
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (Hu2A4 VH3VL3 hcg1,k cDNA sequence - light chain)
                                            20

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <221>   sig_peptide
              <222>   (1)..(66)
              <220>
              <221>   CDS
              <222>   (1)..(726)
              <220>
              <221>   V_region
              <222>   (67)..(402)
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   C_region
              <222>   (403)..(726)
              <400> 20
              atg gac atg cgg gtg ccc gca cag ctg ctg ggc ctg ctg atg ctg
              tgg         48
              Met Asp Met Arg Val Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Gly Leu Leu Met Leu
              Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              gtg tcc ggc tcc tcc ggc gac gtg gtg atg acc cag tcc cct ctg
              tcc         96
              Val Ser Gly Ser Ser Gly Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Leu
              Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              ctg cct gtg acc cct ggc gag cct gcc tcc atc tcc tgc cgg tcc
              tcc        144
              Leu Pro Val Thr Pro Gly Glu Pro Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser
              Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              cag tcc ctg gtg cac tcc acc ggc aac acc tat ctg cac tgg tat
              ctg        192
              Gln Ser Leu Val His Ser Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu His Trp Tyr
              Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              cag aag cct ggc cag tct cct cag ctg ctg atc tac aag gtg tcc
              aac        240
              Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser
              Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              cgg ttc tcc ggc gtg cct gac cgg ttc tct ggc tcc ggc tcc ggc
              acc        288
              Arg Phe Ser Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
              Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              gac ttc acc ctg aag atc tcc cgg gtg gag gcc gag gac gtg ggc
              gtg        336
              Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Val Gly
                                            21

              Val
<removed-date>
                          100                 105                 110
              tac tac tgc tcc cag tcc acc cac gtg cct ttc acc ttc ggc gga
              ggc         384
              Tyr Tyr Cys Ser Gln Ser Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly
              Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              acc aag gtg gag atc aag cga act gtg gct gca cca tct gtc ttc
              atc        432
              Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser Val Phe
<removed-apn>
              Ile
                  130                 135                 140
              ttc ccg cca tct gat gag cag ttg aaa tct gga act gcc tct gtt
              gtg        480
              Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly Thr Ala Ser Val
              Val
              145                 150                 155
              160
              tgc ctg ctg aat aac ttc tat ccc aga gag gcc aaa gta cag tgg
              aag        528
              Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala Lys Val Gln Trp
              Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              gtg gat aac gcc ctc caa tcg ggt aac tcc cag gag agt gtc aca
              gag        576
              Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln Glu Ser Val Thr
              Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              cag gac agc aag gac agc acc tac agc ctc agc agc acc ctg acg
              ctg         624
              Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Thr Leu Thr
              Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              agc aaa gca gac tac gag aaa cac aaa gtc tac gcc tgc gaa gtc
              acc        672
              Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr Ala Cys Glu Val
              Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              cat cag ggc ctg agc tcg ccc gtc aca aag agc ttc aac agg gga
              gag        720
              His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser Phe Asn Arg Gly
              Glu
              225                 230                 235
              240
              tgt tag
              726
              Cys
                                            22

<removed-date>
              <210>   21
              <211>   241
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic Construct
              <400>   21
<removed-apn>
              Met Asp Met Arg Val Pro Ala Gln Leu Leu Gly Leu Leu Met Leu
              Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Ser Gly Ser Ser Gly Asp Val Val Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Leu
              Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Pro Val Thr Pro Gly Glu Pro Ala Ser Ile Ser Cys Arg Ser
              Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln Ser Leu Val His Ser Thr Gly Asn Thr Tyr Leu His Trp Tyr
              Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Lys Pro Gly Gln Ser Pro Gln Leu Leu Ile Tyr Lys Val Ser
              Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Phe Ser Gly Val Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Gly
              Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Phe Thr Leu Lys Ile Ser Arg Val Glu Ala Glu Asp Val Gly
              Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Tyr Cys Ser Gln Ser Thr His Val Pro Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly
              Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala Pro Ser Val Phe
              Ile
                  130                 135                 140
                                            23

<removed-date>
              Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly Thr Ala Ser Val
              Val
              145                 150                 155
              160
              Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala Lys Val Gln Trp
              Lys
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln Glu Ser Val Thr
              Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Thr Leu Thr
              Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr Ala Cys Glu Val
              Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser Phe Asn Arg Gly
              Glu
              225                 230                 235
              240
              Cys
              <210>   22
              <211>   1350
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (Hu2A4 VH3VL3 hcg1,k cDNA sequence - heavy chain
              without signal
                     sequence)
              <400> 22
              gaggtgcagc tggtcgagtc cggcggaggc ctggtgcagc ctggcggctc
              cctgagactg       60
              tcctgcgccg cctccggctt caccttcaac acctacgcca tgtactggat
              caggcaggct      120
                                            24

<removed-date>
              cctggcaagg gactggagtg ggtggcccgg atcaggtcca agtccaacaa
              ctacgctatc      180
              tactacgccg actccgtgaa ggaccggttc accatctccc gggacgactc
              caagaactcc      240
              ctgtatctgc agatgaactc cctgaaaacc gaggacaccg ccgtgtacta
              ctgcgctcgg      300
              ccttactccg actccttcgc ctactggggc cagggcaccc tggtgaccgt
              gtccagcgcc      360
<removed-apn>
              tccaccaagg gcccatcggt cttccccctg gcaccctcct ccaagagcac
              ctctgggggc      420
              acagcggccc tgggctgcct ggtcaaggac tacttccccg aaccggtgac
              ggtgtcgtgg      480
              aactcaggcg ccctgaccag cggcgtgcac accttcccgg ctgtcctaca
              gtcctcagga      540
              ctctactccc tcagcagcgt ggtgaccgtg ccctccagca gcttgggcac
              ccagacctac      600
              atctgcaacg tgaatcacaa gcccagcaac accaaggtgg acaagagagt
              tgagcccaaa      660
              tcttgtgaca aaactcacac atgcccaccg tgcccagcac ctgaactcct
              ggggggaccg      720
              tcagtcttcc tcttcccccc aaaacccaag gacaccctca tgatctcccg
              gacccctgag      780
              gtcacatgcg tggtggtgga cgtgagccac gaagaccctg aggtcaagtt
              caactggtac      840
              gtggacggcg tggaggtgca taatgccaag acaaagccgc gggaggagca
              gtacaacagc      900
              acgtaccgtg tggtcagcgt cctcaccgtc ctgcaccagg actggctgaa
              tggcaaggag      960
              tacaagtgca aggtctccaa caaagccctc ccagccccca tcgagaaaac
              catctccaaa     1020
              gccaaagggc agccccgaga accacaggtg tacacgctgc ccccatcccg
              ggaggagatg     1080
              accaagaacc aggtcagcct gacctgcctg gtcaaaggct tctatcccag
              cgacatcgcc     1140
              gtggagtggg agagcaatgg gcagccggag aacaactaca agaccacgcc
              tcccgtgctg     1200
              gactccgacg gctccttctt cctctatagc aagctcaccg tggacaagag
                                            25

              caggtggcag      1260
<removed-date>
              caggggaacg tcttctcatg ctccgtgatg catgaggctc tgcacaacca
              ctacacgcag     1320
              aagagcctct ccctgtcccc gggtaaatga
              1350
              <210>   23
              <211>   1407
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Humanized antibody sequence containing murine and human
              residues
                     (Hu2A4 VH3VL3 hcg1,k cDNA sequence - heavy chain)
              <220>
              <221>   sig_peptide
              <222>   (1)..(57)
              <220>
              <221>   CDS
              <222>   (1)..(1407)
              <220>
              <221>   V_region
              <222>   (58)..(414)
              <220>
              <221>   C_region
              <222>   (415)..(1407)
              <400> 23
              atg gag ttc ggc ctg tcc tgg ctg ttc ctg gtg gcc atc ctg aag
              ggc         48
              Met Glu Phe Gly Leu Ser Trp Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ile Leu Lys
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              gtg cag tgc gag gtg cag ctg gtc gag tcc ggc gga ggc ctg gtg
              cag         96
              Val Gln Cys Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val
              Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              cct ggc ggc tcc ctg aga ctg tcc tgc gcc gcc tcc ggc ttc acc
              ttc        144
              Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr
              Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              aac acc tac gcc atg tac tgg atc agg cag gct cct ggc aag gga
                                            26

              ctg        192
<removed-date>
              Asn Thr Tyr Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly
              Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              gag tgg gtg gcc cgg atc agg tcc aag tcc aac aac tac gct atc
              tac        240
              Glu Trp Val Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile
              Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              tac gcc gac tcc gtg aag gac cgg ttc acc atc tcc cgg gac gac
<removed-apn>
              tcc        288
              Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp
              Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              aag aac tcc ctg tat ctg cag atg aac tcc ctg aaa acc gag gac
              acc        336
              Lys Asn Ser Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp
              Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              gcc gtg tac tac tgc gct cgg cct tac tcc gac tcc ttc gcc tac
              tgg         384
              Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr
              Trp
                      115                 120                 125
              ggc cag ggc acc ctg gtg acc gtg tcc agc gcc tcc acc aag ggc
              cca        432
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly
              Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              tcg gtc ttc ccc ctg gca ccc tcc tcc aag agc acc tct ggg ggc
              aca        480
              Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly
              Thr
              145                 150                 155
              160
              gcg gcc ctg ggc tgc ctg gtc aag gac tac ttc ccc gaa ccg gtg
              acg        528
              Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val
              Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              gtg tcg tgg aac tca ggc gcc ctg acc agc ggc gtg cac acc ttc
              ccg        576
              Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe
              Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              gct gtc cta cag tcc tca gga ctc tac tcc ctc agc agc gtg gtg
              acc        624
                                            27

              Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val
<removed-date>
              Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              gtg ccc tcc agc agc ttg ggc acc cag acc tac atc tgc aac gtg
              aat        672
              Val Pro Ser Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val
              Asn
                  210                 215                 220
              cac aag ccc agc aac acc aag gtg gac aag aga gtt gag ccc aaa
              tct        720
<removed-apn>
              His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Arg Val Glu Pro Lys
              Ser
              225                 230                 235
              240
              tgt gac aaa act cac aca tgc cca ccg tgc cca gca cct gaa ctc
              ctg        768
              Cys Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu
              Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              ggg gga ccg tca gtc ttc ctc ttc ccc cca aaa ccc aag gac acc
              ctc        816
              Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr
              Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              atg atc tcc cgg acc cct gag gtc aca tgc gtg gtg gtg gac gtg
              agc         864
              Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val
              Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              cac gaa gac cct gag gtc aag ttc aac tgg tac gtg gac ggc gtg
              gag        912
              His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val
              Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              gtg cat aat gcc aag aca aag ccg cgg gag gag cag tac aac agc
              acg        960
              Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser
              Thr
              305                 310                 315
              320
              tac cgt gtg gtc agc gtc ctc acc gtc ctg cac cag gac tgg ctg
              aat       1008
              Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu
              Asn
                              325                 330                 335
              ggc aag gag tac aag tgc aag gtc tcc aac aaa gcc ctc cca gcc
              ccc       1056
                                            28

              Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala
<removed-date>
              Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              atc gag aaa acc atc tcc aaa gcc aaa ggg cag ccc cga gaa cca
              cag       1104
              Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro
              Gln
                      355                 360                 365
              gtg tac acg ctg ccc cca tcc cgg gag gag atg acc aag aac cag
              gtc       1152
<removed-apn>
              Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln
              Val
                  370                 375                 380
              agc ctg acc tgc ctg gtc aaa ggc ttc tat ccc agc gac atc gcc
              gtg       1200
              Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala
              Val
              385                 390                 395
              400
              gag tgg gag agc aat ggg cag ccg gag aac aac tac aag acc acg
              cct       1248
              Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr
              Pro
                              405                 410                 415
              ccc gtg ctg gac tcc gac ggc tcc ttc ttc ctc tat agc aag ctc
              acc       1296
              Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu
              Thr
                          420                 425                 430
              gtg gac aag agc agg tgg cag cag ggg aac gtc ttc tca tgc tcc
              gtg       1344
              Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser
              Val
                      435                 440                 445
              atg cat gag gct ctg cac aac cac tac acg cag aag agc ctc tcc
              ctg       1392
              Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser
              Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              tcc ccg ggt aaa tga
              1407
              Ser Pro Gly Lys
              465
              <210>   24
              <211>   468
              <212>   PRT
                                            29

              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic Construct
              <400>   24
              Met Glu Phe Gly Leu Ser Trp Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ile Leu Lys
              Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Val Gln Cys Glu Val Gln Leu Val Glu Ser Gly Gly Gly Leu Val
              Gln
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Gly Gly Ser Leu Arg Leu Ser Cys Ala Ala Ser Gly Phe Thr
              Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Thr Tyr Ala Met Tyr Trp Ile Arg Gln Ala Pro Gly Lys Gly
              Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Trp Val Ala Arg Ile Arg Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Tyr Ala Ile
              Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Ala Asp Ser Val Lys Asp Arg Phe Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asp
              Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Asn Ser Leu Tyr Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Lys Thr Glu Asp
              Thr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ala Arg Pro Tyr Ser Asp Ser Phe Ala Tyr
              Trp
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly
              Pro
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Val Phe Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly
              Thr
              145                 150                 155
              160
                                            30

<removed-date>
              Ala Ala Leu Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val
              Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Ser Trp Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe
              Pro
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Ala Val Leu Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val
              Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Pro Ser Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val
              Asn
                  210                 215                 220
              His Lys Pro Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Arg Val Glu Pro Lys
              Ser
              225                 230                 235
              240
              Cys Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu
              Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr
              Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val
              Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val
              Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser
              Thr
              305                 310                 315
              320
              Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu
              Asn
                                            31

                                325               330                 335
<removed-date>
              Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala
              Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro
              Gln
                      355                 360                 365
<removed-apn>
              Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln
              Val
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala
              Val
              385                 390                 395
              400
              Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr
              Pro
                              405                 410                 415
              Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu
              Thr
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser
              Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser
              Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser Pro Gly Lys
              465
                                            32

