ABSTRACT
        Disclosed is an assembly (10) for cladding a surface (13), such as a wall or
ceiling of a building. The assembly includes a mount (11) having a base (20) which is
securable to the surface (13), and a pair of spaced apart first engagement formations
(21) extending from the base (20), and also includes a cladding member (14) having a
width defining a first axis, a length defining a second axis and a depth defining a third
axis, the cladding member (14) including a pair of spaced apart second engagement
formations (33) extending in a direction of the third axis. The first and second
engagement formations (21, 33) are engageable to retain the cladding member (14) to
the mount (11). When the first and second engagement formations (21, 33) are
engaged, the first and second engagement formations (21, 33) are wholly inboard of
extremities of the cladding member (14) spaced apart along the first axis.

Fgr1
Figure 1

                                               1
                           "Assembly for cladding a surface"
Technical Field
[0001]    The present disclosure relates to assemblies for cladding a surface, such as a
wall of a building. In particular, the disclosure relate to assemblies for cladding a
surface with battens.
Background
[0002]    Interior and exterior surfaces of a building are often clad to provide a
functional and/or decorative effect. For example, timber cladding is often secured over
rough brickwork on an exterior wall of a building to improve the aesthetic of the wall.
Similarly, corrugated steel cladding panels are often secured around and spaced apart
from interior walls to rapidly erect a weathertight exterior shell around a building.
[0003]    Over recent years, cladding interior and exterior surfaces of a building with
vertically arranged and spaced apart, typically timber, battens has become increasingly
popular. Arranging battens in this way causes shadows to be cast therebetween,
resulting in a light-shadow contrast which is generally considered to visually add depth
to a facade and be attractive. Also, where the battens are formed from a felt or similar
material, this spaced batten arrangement can provide acoustic dampening properties,
which is particularly useful in commercial environments.
[0004]    One approach to clad a wall or ceiling with spaced-apart battens is to use a
modular batten system comprising extruded aluminium battens and complementary
clips. The clips are configured to receive and engage one side of a batten. The battens
typically have connector features formed in the extrusion profile which are configured
to be received in and engage with the clips. To install this type of modular system, the
clips are affixed to the wall/ceiling in linear arrays arranged to receive the battens and
the battens are urged into the respective array of clips.
[0005]    Whilst such known modular systems retain the battens to the surface
adequately, they also suffer from a number of drawbacks. For example, as the clips are

                                              2
configured to receive and then engage a batten, it can prove difficult to subsequently
remove the batten from the engaged clips after installation, often causing damage to the
batten during removal and potentially requiring a specialised tool to prise the clip open
to allow removal of the batten. Also, when the batten is secured to the wall by an array
of clips spaced apart along its length, the clips are usually visible along the engaged
edge of the batten. The intermittent presence of the clips along the edge of the batten
interrupts the line formed by the edge and is considered unattractive and a significant
detractor from the aesthetic of the system. This is particularly important to relevant
users as these systems are often marketed as premium cladding due to their striking
visual appeal and are very expensive. Accordingly, it would be useful to provide an
assembly for cladding a surface which substantially resolves any or all of these issues,
or at least provides an alternative to known cladding assemblies.
[0006]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
which included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any
of these matters form part of common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
Summary
[0007]    According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an
assembly for cladding a surface. The assembly includes a mount having a base
securable to the surface, and a pair of spaced apart first engagement formations
extending from the base, and a cladding member having a width defining a first axis, a
length defining a second axis and a depth defining a third axis, the cladding member
including a pair of spaced apart second engagement formations extending in a direction
of the third axis. The first and second engagement formations are engageable to retain
the cladding member to the mount. When the first and second engagement formations
are engaged, the first and second engagement formations are wholly inboard of
extremities of the cladding member spaced apart along the first axis.

                                              3
[0008] At least one of the first engagement formations and the second engagement
formations may be resiliently deformable. The first and second engagement formations
may also be snap-lockingly engageable.
[0009]    The second engagement formations may be spaced apart to receive at least a
portion of the first engagement portions therebetween and engage. Also, the first
engagement formations may be configured as resiliently deformable arms and the
second engagement formations configured as opposing sidewalls of a channel.
Furthermore, each of the pair of arms may have a retaining portion extending therefrom
and at least partially away from each other to define a width, and the sidewalls define a
deforming portion spaced apart less than the width, so that urging the pair of arms into
the channel abuts the retaining portions against the deforming portion, causing the arms
to deform towards each other.
[0010]    Each of the retaining portions may be arranged at an end of the respective arm.
Optionally, at least a portion of each of the retaining portions may taper towards the
respective end. Each of the retaining portions may be bulbous, or comprise a bent
section of the respective arm.
[0011]    The sidewalls may taper towards the deforming portion. Also, the channel may
define an opening, and the sidewalls taper from proximal to the opening towards the
deforming portion. Alternatively, the channel may define a base connecting between
the sidewalls, and wherein the sidewalls taper from proximal to the base towards the
deforming portion.
[0012]    The deforming portion may comprise a projection extending from each
sidewall towards each other. Each of the projections may be a rib extending
longitudinally along the channel. Also, each of the pair of arms may have a recess
extending therein dimensioned to receive the respective projection.
[0013]    The mount may include a stop surface extending from each of the arms and
arranged to abut the channel when a portion of each of the arms is arranged in the

                                              4
channel. The channel may include an end face adjoining and extending from each
sidewall, and wherein each stop surface is arranged to abut the respective end face.
Also, each stop surface may be formed on a rib extending from the respective arm.
[0014]    The first engagement formations may extend from the base at least partially
towards each other.
[0015]    The second engagement formations may be separate to the cladding member
and affixed thereto. The cladding member may define a cavity dimensioned to receive
the second engagement formations, and the second engagement formations are affixed
within the cavity. Alternatively, the second engagement formations may be joined to a
connector portion for connecting to the cladding member, and the connector portion is
affixed to the cladding member. The connector portion may be dimensioned to receive
at least a portion of the cladding member.
[0016]    The assembly may include a plurality of the mounts, and each respective pair
of first engagement formations engages the second engagement formations to retain the
cladding member to each of the mounts.
[0017]    The cladding member may be configured to be a batten.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0018]    Exemplary embodiments will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[0019]    Figure 1 is a perspective view of an assembly for cladding a surface;
[0020]    Figure 2 is a perspective view of a clip, which is part of the assembly shown in
Figure 1;
[0021]    Figure 3 is an end view of the clip shown in the previous figure engaged with
a channel;
[0022]    Figures 4A and 4B are cross-section views of two configurations of the
assembly shown in Figure 1;

                                              5
[0023]    Figures 5A and 5B are cross-section views of a range of different cladding
member configurations;
[0024]    Figure 6 is a perspective view of an alternative cladding member embodiment
including a separate connector;
[0025]    Figure 7 is an end view of two different connector configurations spaced apart
from respective clips;
[0026]    Figure 8 is a cross-section view of an assembly including different
configurations of the alternative cladding member of Figure 6;
[0027]    Figure 9 is an end view of an alternative clip;
[0028]    Figure 10 is a perspective view of three different configurations of a further
alternative cladding member; and
[0029]    Figure 11 is an end view of one of the further alternative cladding members
shown in Figure 10 engaged with the alternative clip shown in Figure 9.
Description of Embodiments
[0030]    The present disclosure relates to an assembly for cladding a surface, such as a
wall or ceiling surface of a building. One disclosed assembly includes a mount having a
base securable to the surface, and a pair of spaced apart first engagement formations
extending from the base, and a cladding member having a width defining a first axis, a
length defining a second axis and a depth defining a third axis, and a pair of spaced
apart second engagement formations extending in a direction of the third axis. The first
and second engagement formations are engageable to retain the cladding member to the
mount. When the first and second engagement formations are engaged, the first and
second engagement formations are wholly inboard of extremities of the cladding
member spaced apart along the first axis.
[0031]    The disclosed assemblies are typically configured as a modular system,
whereby common second engagement portions are integrally formed in, or attached to,
each cladding member, regardless of length or cross-sectional profile of the cladding
member. This means that differently shaped cladding members can be secured to a
surface with a common mount. This enhances the adaptability of the system, and

                                              6
reduces the complexity of the system, allowing a wide range of functional and/or
aesthetic properties to be achieved with only a few different components. For example,
this allows a complex geometry cladding design, comprising differently profiled
cladding members secured to a surface in a specific arrangement, to be readily
constructed by unskilled workers.
[0032]    The configuration of the first and second engagement formations of the
disclosed assemblies ensures that the connection between the cladding member and the
mount is concealed, as, when the engagement formations are engaged, they are
arranged within the extremities of the width of the cladding member and behind the
cladding member. This is advantageous, as this provides a tidy and elegant appearance.
For example, where the cladding member is configured as an elongate beam, this
ensures an entire longitudinal edge of the cladding member is visible, providing a
desirable aesthetic.
[0033]    Typically at least one of the engagement formations is resiliently deformable,
typically providing a snap-fit engagement between engagement formations. This is a
useful aspect of the assembly, as this allows rapid connection of the cladding member
to the mount, and consequently to the surface to be clad.
[0034]    Typically, the second engagement formations, arranged on the cladding
member, are shaped and dimensioned to at least partially receive the first engagement
formations, arranged on the mount, to engage the formations. Usually, this involves the
second engagement formations being embodied in a channel arranged in, or attached to,
the cladding member, and the first engagement formation being embodied as a pair of
resiliently deformable arms extending from the mount. This configuration of the
engagement formations further enhances concealing the connection between cladding
member and mount, therefore further enhancing the aesthetic of the assembly.
[0035]    When the assembly is configured to have a cooperating channel and mount
arms, the structure of the channel is typically shaped and dimensioned to cause the
arms inserted therein to deform towards each other until the arms have sufficient space

                                              7
to resiliently deform away from each other and abut the channel. This may be enhanced
by the arms having a retaining portion at least partially extending away from each other
to assist the arms being urged toward each other to cause engagement of the mount
with the channel. This arrangement is useful as allows the cladding member to be easily
engaged with the clip to form a secure connection, enhancing efficiency of installation,
and also assist with removal of the cladding member from the surface.
[0036]    Figure 1 shows an assembly 10 for cladding a surface. The assembly 10
includes a plurality of mounts, in the form of clips 11, affixed to ceiling battens 12
which are, in turn, secured to a ceiling surface 13. A plurality of cladding members, in
the form of timber battens 14, are shown spaced apart from the clips 11 and ceiling
battens 12. The clips 11 are arranged in pairs and aligned to engage with one of the
battens 14.
[0037]    Figure 2 shows one of the clips 11 of the assembly shown in Figure 1 in
isolation. The clip 11 includes a base 20 having a pair of spaced apart first engagement
portions, in the form of resiliently deformable arms 21, extending therefrom and
defining a width dimension, for example, width dimension "x", thereacross. The base
20 is adapted to be secured to a surface, such as by a fastener (not shown), adhesive or
welded. Each arm 21 typically includes a retaining portion to retain the clip 11 to a
cladding member. The embodiment shown in Figure 2 has a retaining portion
configured as a projection 22 extending from each arm 21 and in substantially opposite
directions, away from each other. Each projection 22 is arranged at an end of the
respective arm 21 and tapers towards the respective end, to provide a ramped surface
23. Each arm 21 typically also includes a stop surface 24 extending therefrom. In the
embodiment shown in Figure 2, the stop surface 24 is arranged on a rib 25 extending
from the respective arm 21.
[0038]    Whilst the retaining portions are shown in Figure 2 as projections 22, it will be
appreciated that the retaining portions may be embodied in other forms suitable for
retaining the clip 11 to a cladding member. For example, the retaining portions may
comprise a section (not shown) of each arm 21 which is bent to extend in opposite

                                              8
directions, or at an angle, away from each other. Alternatively, the retaining portions
may be recesses (not shown) which extend into the respective arm 21. Furthermore, it
will be appreciated that the retaining portions may be arranged partway along (not
shown) the respective arm 21 instead of being at the end of the arm 21, as shown in
Figure 2.
[0039]    Figure 3 shows the first engagement formations of one of the clips 11 engaged
with a respective second pair of spaced apart engagement formations, in the form of a
channel 30, typically formed integrally with, or affixed to, one of the battens 14 (not
illustrated). The channel 30 comprises two opposed sidewalls 31 spaced apart from
each other and typically joined by a base 32. The sidewalls 31 are dimensioned to
receive and retain at least a portion of the pair of arms 21 of the clip 11. The sidewalls
21 typically define a deforming portion, in the embodiment shown in Figure 2
configured as a pair of opposed projections 33, spaced apart a dimension less than the
width defined by the arms 21. Adjacent the deforming portion, the sidewalls 31 define
a cavity 34 spaced apart more than the width defined by the arms 21. Adjoining each of
the sidewalls 21 is an end face 35 extending therefrom.
[0040]    The clip 11 engages the channel 30 with a snap-lock type engagement. To
engage the clip 11 with the channel 30, the arms 21 are inserted between the sidewalls
31 and urged towards the base 32. This causes the arms 21 to abut against the
deforming portion. The shape and configuration of the deforming portion ensures that
when the arms 21 are urged thereagainst, the restricted spacing therebetween deforms
the arms 21 towards each other. In the embodiment shown in Figure 2, this is caused by
the ramped surface 23 on each arm 21 abutting the respective sidewall projection 33.
As the space between the sidewall projections 33 is less than the width defined by the
pair of ramped surfaces 23, urging the arms 21 towards the base 32 of the channel 30
compresses the ends of the arms 21 towards each other. Continued urging of the arms
21 towards the base 32 eventually causes the arms 21 to be inserted into the channel 30
past the deforming portion, allowing the arms 21 to resiliently deform away from each
other and abut the sidewalls 31. In the embodiment shown in Figure 2, the cavity 33 is
dimensioned to be wider than the width defined across the ramped surfaces 23, thereby

                                              9
allowing the arms 21 to spring apart and abut the sidewalls 31. To enhance engagement
of the clip 11 with the channel 30, the stop surfaces 24 extending from the arms 21 abut
the respective end face 35 of the channel 30 when the arms 21 are inserted past the
deforming portion, thereby preventing further insertion of the arms 21 into the channel
30.
[0041]    Whilst the clip 11 is described above as having the first engagement portions
formed on resiliently deformable arms 21, it will be appreciated that the channel 30
sidewalls may alternatively be resiliently deformable and the arms 21 substantially
rigid, meaning that the channel 30 is deformed to engage the arms 21 in a snap-lock
type engagement. For example, the first engagement portions may be embodied on
either side of a rigid projection (not shown) extending from the cladding member and
be received and engaged within a resiliently deformable portion of the clip 11.
[0042]    Figures 4A and 4B show two different configuration of the assembly 10
shown in Figure 1. In Figure 4A, a plurality of like battens 41 are joined to a ceiling
surface 40 by a plurality of like clips 11. Each of the battens 41 has a cavity extending
therein and dimensioned to receive the channel 30, and has a section of channel 30
affixed therein. Each section of channel 30 is engaged with at least one clip 11 affixed
to the ceiling surface 40, thereby securing the respective batten 41 to the ceiling 40. In
Figure 4B, plurality of different battens 45 are joined to the ceiling surface 40 by
another plurality of like clips 11. Each of the battens 45 has a cavity extending therein
and dimensioned to receive the channel 30, and has a section of channel 30 affixed
therein. Each section of channel 30 is engaged with at least one clip 11 affixed to the
ceiling surface 40, thereby securing the respective batten 45 to the ceiling 40. This
therefore demonstrates the advantageous modularity of the assembly 10, as these are
two examples of the many different batten configurations able to be constructed with
the assembly 10.
[0043]    Figures 5A and 5B show different configurations of the cladding member. In
Figure 5A, the cladding members are in the form of extruded battens 51, such as
extruded metal or plastic. Each batten 51 has an integral channel portion 52 shaped to

                                              10
receive and retain a clip 11 by the arms 21 cooperating with a deforming portion 521,
as described above. The peripheral cross-sectional profile of the various battens 51
shown in Figure 5A varies significantly however the geometry of the channel portion
52 is consistent, thereby ensuring each batten 51 can be engaged with the same clip 11.
In Figure 5B, the cladding members are in the form of machined battens 55, typically
being machined from solid blocks of material, such as timber, plastic, metal or stone.
Each batten 55 includes a cavity 56 for receiving a section of channel 30. Again, the
peripheral cross-sectional profile of the various battens 55 shown in Figure 5B varies
significantly however the geometry of the cavity 56 is consistent, thereby ensuring each
batten 55 can receive a section of the channel 30 and then be engaged with the clip 11.
[0044]    Figure 6 shows a cladding member, in the form of a batten 60, connected to an
alternative channel 61, whereby common reference numerals indicated common
features. The channel 61 includes a base portion 62 having the sidewalls 31 extending
therefrom and also having a connector portion for connecting to the cladding member.
In the embodiment shown in Figure 6, the connector portion includes a further channel
63 dimensioned to receive a side of the batten 60. The base 62 is typically adapted to be
affixed to the batten 60, for example having apertures (not shown) for securing
fasteners therethrough, however alternatively engages the batten 60 by frictional
engagement. In this embodiment, the channel 61 is typically dimensioned to have the
same longitudinal length as the batten 60 and is therefore secured along the length of
the batten 60. This arrangement is useful for attaching flexible or semi-rigid materials,
such as felt, to a surface, as the channel 561 can be readily attached to such materials,
for example, by adhesive.
[0045]    Figure 7 shows two different configurations of the channel 611, 612 having
different connector portions. The first channel 611 has a connector portion which
defines a channel 631 dimensioned to receive a first batten (not shown) having a first
width. The second channel 612 has a connector portion which defines a channel 632
dimensioned to receive a second batten (not shown) having a second width which is
greater than the first width. Both channel configurations 611, 612 have a common
sidewall 31 configuration to allow engagement with a common clip 11.

                                              11
[0046]    Figure 8 shows an alternative configuration of the assembly 10 comprising
different channel configurations 81, 82, 83 connecting respective different cladding
members, in the form of timber battens 84, 85, 86, to a ceiling surface 80. Each channel
81, 82, 83 is affixed to the respective batten 84, 85, 86 by at least one mechanical
fastener 87, and also engaged with at least one clip 11 affixed to the ceiling 80.
[0047]    Figure 9 shows an alternative clip embodiment 90. The clip 90 has a base 91
secured to a surface 97 by a mechanical fastener, in the example shown being a screw
98, and a pair of resiliently deformable arms 92 extending from the base 91, typically at
an angle towards each other, to define a width, such as width dimension "y" across an
end of the arms 92. Each of the arms 92 typically have a retaining portion arranged at
the respective end at least partially extending away from each other. In the embodiment
shown in Figure 9, the retaining portions are configured as a rounded bulb 93 arranged
at the respective end of the arm 92. Each arm 92 typically further includes a stop
surface 94 extending therefrom. In the embodiment shown in Figure 9, the stop surface
94 is formed on a rib 95 extending from the respective arm 92.
[0048]    Figure 10 shows three different cladding members, in the form of a timber
battens 110, 111, 112, each housing a common, further alternative channel 100. The
channel 100 has opposed sidewalls 101 which are spaced apart to define an opening
and are joined by a base 102. The sidewalls 101 define a deforming portion
dimensioned to be less than the width defined by the arms 91 of the clip 90. In the
embodiment shown in Figure 10, the deforming portion is defined by the sidewalls 101
tapering from proximal to the opening towards a minimum width point 103. The
sidewalls 101 then diverge from the minimum width point 103 towards the base 102.
An end face 104 adjoins each sidewall adjacent the opening and extends therefrom.
Whilst the channel 100 is shown in Figure 9 as separate to the battens 110, 111, 112
and affixed therein, it will be appreciated that the channel 100 may be integrally formed
with the battens 110, 111, 112, for example, by appropriate routing.
[0049]    Figure 11 shows the batten 110 and associated channel 100 engaged with the
clip 90, thereby securing the batten 110 to the surface 97. The channel 100 and clip 90

                                            12
have complementary geometry configured to optimise engagement and release of the
channel 100 and clip 90. For example, the taper of the sidewalls 101 from the opening
towards the minimum width point 103 assist with progressively compressing the arms
92 towards each other when inserted into the channel 100 and urged towards the base
102. Similarly the diverging of the sidewalls 101 away from the minimum width point
103 towards the base 102 provides sufficient space for the arms 92 to resiliently deform
apart from each other and abut against the sidewalls 101, thereby securing the arms 92
within the channel 100. This configuration of the sidewalls 101 also assist with removal
of the arms 92 from the channel 100, as the taper of the sidewalls 101 from proximal to
the base towards the minimum width point 103 progressively compresses the arms 92
towards each other until the arms 92 can be removed from the channel 100.
[0050]   To further enhance engaging and removing the clip 90 from the channel 100,
the shape of the bulbous portion 93 at the end of each arm 92 assists compressing the
arms towards each other when urged against the sidewalls 101 and towards or away
from the base 102, by providing a ramped surface to assist sliding of the arms 92 along
the sidewalls 101 in either direction. When the arms 92 are engaged within the channel
100, the stop surface 94 extending from each arm 92 abuts the respective end face 104
of the channel 100, thereby preventing the arms 92 from being inserted further into the
channel 100. The cooperation of the retaining portions, in this embodiment being the
bulbs 93, and the stop surfaces 94 formed on the ribs 95 with the sidewalls 101 ensures
the arms 92 are securely retained within the channel 100, advantageously reducing or
preventing relative movement. This therefore decreases likelihood of the connection
between the batten 110 and clip 90 rattling if subject to winds or other forces.
[0051]   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
[0052]   It will be appreciated that numerous variations and/or modifications may be
made to the above-described embodiments without departing from the broad general

                                              13
scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

                                            14
CLAIMS:
1.        An assembly for cladding a surface, the assembly including:
          a mount having a base securable to the surface, and a pair of spaced apart first
engagement formations extending from the base; and
          a cladding member having a width defining a first axis, a length defining a
second axis and a depth defining a third axis, the cladding member including a pair of
spaced apart second engagement formations extending in a direction of the third axis,
          wherein the first and second engagement formations are engageable to retain
the cladding member to the mount, and
          wherein, when the first and second engagement formations are engaged, the
first and second engagement formations are wholly inboard of extremities of the
cladding member spaced apart along the first axis.
2.        The assembly of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first engagement
formations and the second engagement formations are resiliently deformable.
3.        The assembly of claim 2, wherein the first and second engagement formations
are snap-lockingly engageable.
4.        The assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the second
engagement formations are spaced apart to receive at least a portion of the first
engagement portions therebetween and engage.
5.        The assembly of claim 4, wherein the first engagement formations are
resiliently deformable arms and the second engagement formations are opposing
sidewalls of a channel.
6.        The assembly according to claim 5, wherein each of the pair of arms has a
retaining portion extending therefrom at least partially away from each other to define a
width, and the sidewalls define a deforming portion spaced apart less than the width,
and wherein urging the pair of arms into the channel abuts the retaining portions
against the deforming portion, causing the arms to deform towards each other.

                                            15
7.        The assembly according to claim 6, wherein each of the retaining portions are
arranged at an end of the respective arm.
8.        The assembly according to claim 7, wherein at least a portion of each of the
retaining portions taper towards the respective end.
9.        The assembly according to claim 7 or 8, wherein each of the retaining portions
is bulbous.
10.       The assembly according to claim 7 or 8, wherein each of the retaining portions
comprise a bent section of the respective arm.
11.       The assembly according to any one of the claims 6 to 10, wherein the
sidewalls taper towards the deforming portion.
12.       The assembly according to claim 11, wherein the channel defines an opening,
and wherein the sidewalls taper from proximal to the opening towards the deforming
portion.
13.       The assembly according to claim 11, wherein the channel defines a base
connecting between the sidewalls, and wherein the sidewalls taper from proximal to the
base towards the deforming portion.
14.       The assembly according to claim 6, wherein the deforming portion comprises
a projection extending from each sidewall towards each other.
15.       The assembly according to claim 14, wherein each of the projections is a rib
extending longitudinally along the channel.
16.       The assembly according to claim 14 or 15, wherein each of the pair of arms
has a recess extending therein dimensioned to receive the respective projection.

                                            16
17.       The assembly according to any one of claims 5 to 16, wherein the mount
further includes a stop surface extending from each of the arms and arranged to abut the
channel when a portion of each of the arms is arranged in the channel.
18.       The assembly according to claim 17, wherein the channel further includes an
end face adjoining and extending from each sidewall, and wherein each stop surface is
arranged to abut the respective end face.
19.       The assembly according to claim 17 or 18, wherein each stop surface is
formed on a rib extending from the respective arm.
20.       The assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
engagement formations extend from the base at least partially towards each other.
21.       The assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
second engagement formations are separate to the cladding member and affixed
thereto.
22.       The assembly according to claim 21, wherein the cladding member defines a
cavity dimensioned to receive the second engagement formations, and wherein the
second engagement formations are affixed within the cavity.
23.       The assembly according to claim 21, wherein the second engagement
formations are joined to a connector portion for connecting to the cladding member,
and wherein the connector portion is affixed to the cladding member.
24.       The assembly according to claim 23, wherein the connector portion is
dimensioned to receive at least a portion of the cladding member.
25.       The assembly according to any one of the preceding claims including a
plurality of the mounts, and wherein each respective pair of first engagement
formations engages the second engagement formations to retain the cladding member
to each of the mounts.

                                         17
26.      The assembly according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
cladding member is a batten.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/11

