Abstract
The present invention relates to compositions for weight management comprising:
a) a microbiome modifying component; b) a satiety modifying component; and c) a
metabolic modifying component. The composition may also be used for the
treatment of obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension or heart disease.

Figure 1
     Figure

          AUSTRALIA
        Patents Act 1990 (Cth)
COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
            APPLICANT
       OPTIBIOTIX LIMITED
                TITLE
           COMPOSITION
                 -1-

                                            COMPOSITION
   Technical Field of the Invention
            The invention relates to a composition for weight management and/or for use in the
   treatment of elevated cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension or heart disease.
 5 Background to the Invention
            Overweight and obese are conditions defined as abnormal or excessive fat
   accumulation that may impair health. It results from imbalances in the body's regulation of
   energy intake, expenditure and storage.
            Obesity is one of the greatest public health challenges of the 21st century. It is a
10 complex condition, one with serious social and psychological dimensions, that affects
   virtually all age and socioeconomic groups in both developed and developing countries.
   The health consequences of obesity range from increased risk of premature death to
   serious chronic conditions that reduce the overall quality of life. Excess weight is the fifth
   leading risk for global deaths. At least 2.8 million adults die each year as a result of being
15 overweight or obese. In addition, 44% of the diabetes burden, 23% of the ischaemic heart
   disease burden and between 7% and 41% of certain cancer burdens are attributable to
   being overweight or obese.
            Among the reasons that have led to the dramatic increase in obesity are an increase
   in the intake of high fat, salt and refined sugar foods that are energy rich but otherwise low
20 in nutritional value (vitamins, minerals, micronutrients) in combination with an increasingly
   sedentary nature to everyday life with a dramatic decrease in physical activity.
            Prebiotics have attracted interests as candidate compounds for the control of
   obesity and associated metabolic disorders. In animal studies, prebiotics have been shown
   to regulate the intake of food, prevent weight gain, beneficially alter lipid metabolism and
                                               - 1a -

   reduce obesity-related inflammation. So far, most studies have focused on simply
   supplementing the diet with inulin and fructooligosaccharides (FOS).
            Prebiotics are dietary ingredients which can selectively enhance beneficial
   indigenous gut microbiota, such as lactobacilli or bifidobacteria, and are finding much
 5 increased application into the food sector. Prebiotics are non digestible food ingredients
   that are selectively metabolised by colonic bacteria which contribute to improved health. As
   such, their use can promote beneficial changes within the indigenous gut microbial milieu
   and they can therefore help survivability of probiotics. They are distinct from most dietary
   fibres like pectin, celluloses, xylan, which are not selectively metabolised in the gut. Criteria
10 for classification as a prebiotic is that it must resist gastric acidity, hydrolysis by mammalian
   enzymes and gastrointestinal absorption, it is fermented by intestinal microflora and
   selectively stimulates the growth and/or activity of intestinal bacteria associated with health
   and well-being.
            One of the primary functions of the colonic microbiota is to salvage energy from
15 dietary material that has not been digested in the upper gastrointestinal tract, through
   participating in the initial hydrolysis of complex macromolecules, breaking them down into
   smaller fragments that can be utilised by other members of the gut microbiota. It is
   postulated that about 7% to 10% of the total daily energy requirements of the host are
   derived from colonic bacterial fermentation. In the absence of microbial fermentation in the
20 gut, this energy contribution to would be lost to the host, as humans lack the enzymes
   necessary to catabolise plant polysaccharides and they would be excreted from the
   organism as waste. As such, it appears that the presence of a gut microbiota may lead to a
   direct increase in energy salvaging through the fermentation of dietary polysaccharides.
            Although obesity is caused by an excess caloric intake which is not matched by an
25 increase in energy expenditure, differences in gut microbiota composition and activities
   between individuals may also be an important contributing factor affecting energy
                                                   -2-

   homeostasis. This would imply that the gut microbiota of obese individuals would be more
   efficient in salvaging and/or storing energy from a specific diet compared to the microbiota
   of lean individuals.
            Some dietary fibres can form viscous gels on exposure to an aqueous environment
 5 and their gelling properties may account for weight loss promoting effects by delaying
   gastric emptying, slowing bowel transit time and blunting post-prandial surges in insulin and
   glucose.
            It is an object of the present invention to provide a formulation which can be used for
   weight management - whether as a food supplement, additive or potential treatment. It is a
10 further object of the present invention to provide a formulation whose components have a
   synergistic effect on an individual so as to reduce or modulate weight gain.         It would be
   preferably if such a formulation was effective in more than one area of weight management,
   for example modifying metabolism of fat and reducing energy gain by colonic bacterial
   fermentation. It would also be preferable that the formulation could be easily administered
15 as either a medicament or a food supplement or additive.
   Summary of the Invention
            In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   composition comprising:
            a)       a microbiome modifying component;
20          b)       a satiety modifying component; and
            c)       a metabolic modifying component.
           The microbiome modifying component may comprise one or more microbial strains.
   Such microbial strains could be bacterial and fall within the scope of what is typically
   considered to be a probiotic.       The microbiome modifying component may alternatively or
                                                   -3-

   additionally comprise a growth medium for one or more microbial strains - these strains
   could already be present in the individual or included as part of the composition.
            The micrbiome modifying component may comprise a selective microbial growth
   inhibitor and/or microbial cidal compound.           Therefore the microbial strains which are
 5 already present in the individual can be manipulated by encouraging growth, inhibiting
   growth or actively killed. Such manipulation allows to the desired microbial population to be
   selected so as to provide their associated health benefits.
            The microbiome modifying component preferably comprises a prebiotic and/or
   probiotic. If desired, the prebiotic may be producible by the probiotic bacterial strain by
10 reverse enzyme reaction. The satiety modifying component preferably acts mechanistically
   to suppress appetite.      The metabolic modifying component preferably acts to increase
   metabolism and/or modify insulin sensitivity.
            The micorbiome modifying component may comprise a prebiotic; the satiety
   modifying component may comprise dietary fibre and the metabolic modifying component
15 may comprise chromium.
            The term "dietary fibre" is intended to mean indigestible portions of food derived
   from plants which comprise soluble and insoluble fibres.
            The term "chromium" covers all dietary chromium, including trivalent chromium
   (Cr(III) or Cr3 ') which naturally occurs in trace amounts in foods and waters. Chromium acts
20 systemically potentiating insulin action, increasing metabolic rate, influencing carbohydrate,
   lipid and protein metabolism and maintaining glucose levels.
            The term "prebiotic" is intended to mean a selectively fermented ingredient that
   allows specific changes, both in the composition and/or activity in the gastrointestinal
   microflora flora that confers benefits upon host wellbeing and health. Prebiotics act in the
                                                    -4-

   colon and produce changes in the microbial flora which affect energy metabolism and gut
   peptides involved in satiation (GLP1, GLP2). These have a long acting affect.
            Preferably, the dietary fibre comprises glucomannan. Gucomannam acts primarily
   in the stomach by suppressing appetite by gel formation in the stomach, causing distension
 5 and activating mechanoreceptors that signal increased satiety and fullness.
            Preferably    the   prebiotic    comprises  one    or  more   selected  from:   inulin,
   fructooligosaccharides (FOS), galactooligosaccharides (GOS), a-gluco-oligosaccharides, a
   low gas producing prebiotic and combinations thereof.
           The composition may comprise the dietary fibre in the range of 0.5 to 15g. The
10 dietary dose may be in the range of 1g to 3g per day. More preferably, the dietary dose
   may be in the range of 1.5g to 2.5g per day. The composition comprises chromium in the
   range of 50 to 10OOpg. The chromium may be in a dose in the range of 100 to 750pg per
   day. More preferably, the chromium may be in a dose in the range of 200 to 500pg per
   day.
15         The composition comprises the prebiotic in the range of 3 to 30g. The prebiotic may
   be in a dose of 5 to 25g per day. More preferably, the prebiotic may be in a dose of 10 to
   20g per day.
           The composition may comprise a combination of:
            (a)      glucomannan and chromium;
20          (b)      glucomannan, FOS and chromium;
            (c)      glucomannan and FOS; or
            (d)      glucomannan and a low gas producing prebiotic.
            It will be apparent to the skilled addressee that the composition may be in any easily
   administered form, for example in the form of a powder, tablet, or capsule.                The
                                                    -5-

   composition may further comprise an excipient or carrier compound to modify the release
   profile of one or more of the components through the intestinal environment. Alternatively,
   the composition may be in the form of a food stuff or food additive. The composition could
   be used as a dietary supplement - for example to be blended with foods/drinks or
 5 consumed alongside foods/drinks.
            The composition may further comprise one or more active ingredients selected from:
   vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals, antioxidants, and combinations thereof.
            Vitamins may include fat soluble vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E,
   and vitamin and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, vitamins can include water
10 soluble vitamins such as vitamin C (ascorbic acid), the B vitamins (thiamine or B 1,
   riboflavoin or B25 niacin or B3, pyridoxine or B6, folic acid or B9, cyanocobalimin or B12,
   pantothenic acid, biotin), and combinations thereof.
            Minerals may include, but are not limited to, sodium, magnesium, chromium, iodine,
   iron, manganese, calcium, copper, fluoride, potassium, phosphorous,              molybdenum,
15 selenium, zinc, and combinations thereof.
            Antioxidants may include but are not limited to ascorbic acid, citric acid, rosemary
   oil, vitamin A, vitamin E, vitamin E phosphate, tocopherols, di-alpha-tocopheryl phosphate,
   tocotrienols, alpha      lipoic acid, dihydrolipoic acid, xanthophylls, beta cryptoxanthin,
   lycopene, lutein, zeaxanthin, astaxanthin, beta-carotene, carotenes, mixed carotenoids,
20 polyphenols,                fiavonoids,           and         combinations              thereof.
            Phytochemicals may include but are not limited to cartotenoids, chlorophyll,
   chlorophyllin, fiber, flavanoids, anthocyamns, cyaniding, delphinidin, malvidin, pelargonidin,
   peonidin,       petunidin,         flavanols,   catechin,   epicatechin,     epigallocatechin,
   epigailocatechingallate, theaflavins, thearubigins, proanthocyanins, flavonols, quercetin,
25 kaempferol,     myricetin,      isorhamnetin, flavononeshesperetin,  naringenin,    eriodictyol,
                                                   -6-

   tangeretin, flavones, apigenin, luteolin, lignans, phytoestrogens, resveratrol, isoflavones,
   daidzein, genistein, glycitein, soy isoflavones, and combinations thereof.
           The composition will preferably be used for weight management (including reducing
   overall mass) in an individual.
 5         The composition may be used as a medicament for treating obesity and/or related
   conditions.
           In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   composition for use in the treatment of obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension
   or heart disease comprising:
10         a)     a microbiome modifying component;
           b)     a satiety modifying component; and
           c)     a metabolic modifying component.
           The microbiome modifying component may comprise one or more microbial strains.
   Such microbial strains could be bacterial and fall within the scope of what is typically
15 considered to be a probiotic.     The microbiome modifying component may alternatively or
   additionally comprise a growth medium for one or more microbial strains - these strains
   could already be present in the individual or included as part of the composition.
           The microbiome modifying component may comprise a selective microbial growth
   inhibitor and/or microbial cidal compound.        Therefore the microbial strains which are
20 already present in the individual can be manipulated by encouraging growth, inhibiting
   growth or actively killed. Such manipulation allows to the desired microbial population to be
   selected so as to provide their associated health benefits.
           The microbiome modifying component may comprise a prebiotic and/or probiotic. If
   desired, the prebiotic may be producible by the probiotic bacterial strain by reverse enzyme
                                                 -7-

   reaction.   The satiety modifying component preferably acts mechanistically to suppress
   appetite.   The metabolic modifying component preferably acts to increase metabolism
   and/or modify insulin sensitivity.   It is preferred that micorbiome modifying component
   comprises a prebiotic; the satiety modifying component comprises dietary fibre and the
 5 metabolic modifying component comprises chromium.
           The dietary fibre may be selected from comprises glucomannan and/or the prebiotic
   comprises one or more selected from the following: inulin, fructooligosaccharides (FOS),
   galactooligosaccharides (GOS), a-gluco-oligosaccharides, a low gas producing prebiotic
   and combinations thereof.
10         The composition may comprise the dietary fibre in a dose of the range of 0.5 to 5g
   per day. The dietary dose may be in the range of 1g to 3g per day. More preferably, the
   dietary dose may be in the range of 1.5g to 2.5g per day.
           The composition may comprise chromium in a dose in the range of 50 to 10OOpg
   per day. The chromium may be in a dose in the range of 100 to 750pg per day. More
15 preferably, the chromium may be in a dose in the range of 200 to 500pg per day.
           The composition may comprise the prebiotic in a dose of 3 to 30g per day. The
   prebiotic may be in a dose of 5 to 25g per day. More preferably, the prebiotic may be in a
   dose of 10 to 20g per day.
           The composition may comprise a combination of:
20         (a)     glucomannan and chromium;
           (b)     glucomannan, FOS and chromium;
           (c)     glucomannan and FOS; or
           (d)     glucomannan and a low gas producing prebiotic.
           The composition may be in the form of a capsule, powder, or tablet.
                                                -8-

           The composition may further comprise an excipient or carrier compound to modify
   the release profile or one or more of the components through the intestinal environment.
           The composition may further comprise one or more active ingredients selected from:
   vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals, antioxidants, and combinations thereof.        A list of
 5 suitable active ingredients is listed herein above with reference to the first aspect of the
   present invention.
           Further aspects of the       present invention relate to methods of producing
   compositions as herein above described.
           In one such further aspect, there is provided a method of producing a composition
10 comprising: providing a microbiome modifying component; a satiety modifying component;
   and a metabolic modifying component; and mixing the components together so as to form
   the composition.
           In another such aspect, there is provided a method of producing a composition for
   use in the treatment of obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension or heart
15 disease comprising: providing a microbiome modifying component; a satiety modifying
   component; and a metabolic modifying component; and mixing the components together so
   as to form the composition.
           In both of these aspects, the methods may comprise providing and mixing together
   a combination of:
20         (a)     glucomannan and chromium;
           (b)     glucomannan, FOS and chromium;
           (c)     glucomannan and FOS; or
           (d)     glucomannan and a low gas producing prebiotic,
           so as to form the composition.
                                                -9-

           It will be apparent to the skilled addressee that the methods of producing a
   composition as herein above described may be employed to produce any of the
   compositions as outlined and described in the compositional aspects of the invention.
   Furthermore, additional steps may be incorporated into the methods such as formulation
 5 steps or steps incorporating the compositions into foodstuffs or tablets.
           In accordance with yet a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method of treating obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension or heart disease
   comprising administering a composition as herein above described in a therapeutically
   effective amount.
10         In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a use
   of a composition as herein above, in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of
   obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension or heart disease.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
           Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
15 only with reference to the figures and examples detailed below.
           Initial stages of developing the composition of the present invention focused on
   screening a large number of possible components to establish which components have a
   proven effect in weight management and which may be useful in combining with other
   components so as to provide a synergistic effect or combined modes of action.          These
20 components were also screened for toxicology profiles and whether they have been proved
   safe for human consumption.
   Chromium
           Chromium is a trace element that exists in foods and supplements in the trivalent
   form. Chromium levels are low in many staple foods; the better sources are processed
                                               - 10-

   meats, pulses, spices and whole grains. It plays a role in the metabolism of carbohydrate
   and fat and has attracted interest as a supplement that may promote weight loss.
           Pittler et al. (2003) conducted the first meta-analysis of RCTs (10 trials, n=489) of
   chromium picolinate and weight loss. They reported a weighted mean difference of 1.1 kg
 5 (95% CI 1.8, 0.4) in favour of chromium picolinate over placebo.
           Very recently, Onakpoya et al. (2013) conducted a meta-analysis on the effect of
   chromium supplementation on weight loss in overweight and obese adults. Their analysis of
   11 RCT (n=866) reported a modest but statistically significant mean difference in weight of
   0.5 kg (95% CI -0.96, -0.03) in favour of chromium over placebo. They also found a modest
10 reduction in percentage body fat, but no effect on BMI or waist to hip circumference. The
   dose of chromium administered in the studies ranged from 137 pg/d to 1000 pg/d, but there
   was no clear evidence of a dose-response. Consequently, the authors noted it was difficult
   to determine a minimum effective dose, but reported that the largest weight loss tended to
   be found in RCTs with dosages of 400 pg/d.
15         Chromium has been suggested to improve insulin sensitivity, increase metabolic
   rate and reduce food cravings (Anderson 1998; Attenburrow et al. 2002; Onakpoya et al.
   2013).
           Onakpoya et al. (2013) reported some adverse effects in participants, including
   watery stools, vertigo, weakness, nausea, vomiting, dizziness and headaches. These
20 adverse effects disappeared on withdrawal of chromium and reappeared when it was
   reintroduced. Other authors have reported constipation, decreased appetite and urticaria
   (Yazaki et al. 2010; Krol et al. 2011).
           There is no reference nutrient intake for chromium, but COMA recommends that an
   intake above 25 pg/d is adequate for adults (DoH, 1991). The UK Food Standards Agency
25 advise that intake up to 1000 pg/d from foods and/or supplements is likely to be safe.
                                                - 11 -

           There seems to be little data on the sensory effects of adding chromium to foods.
   Achanta et al. (2007) explored the effects of adding various minerals including chromium to
   yoghurts. They reported that addition of chromium at a level equivalent to 25% of the US
   RDA had no effect on the flavour or taste of yoghurt.
 5 Glucomannan
            Glucomannan is a soluble fibre derived from the perennial plant, Amorphophallus
   konjac. It consists of D-mannose and D-glucose in a molar ratio of 1.6:1.0, connected by
   P(1,4)-glycosidic bonds. Glucomannan has been attributed with a range of beneficial effects
   on parameters of obesity and cardiovascular risk (Doi 1995).
10         A fairly recent meta-analysis of 9 randomised controlled trials (RCT; n=379)
   reported that glucomannan causes a small, but statistically significant 0.79 kg (95% CI
   1.53, -0.05) weight loss in trials averaging 5.2 weeks in duration (Sood et al. 2008). Weight
   loss was greatest in obese subjects (mean -1.30 (-1.69, -0.91) kg) and in RCTs with a
   parallel study design. The dose of glucomannan used in the studies ranged from 1.24 g/d to
15 15.1 g/d, the lower doses being supplied as capsules or tablets and the higher doses
   incorporated into granola bars or biscuits. Interestingly, the 3 studies that supplied
   glucomannan in biscuits or granola bars failed to report any significant weight change
   (Vuskan et al. 1999; Vuskan et al. 2000; Yoshida et al. 2006).
            Salas-Salvado et al. (2008) conducted a 4 arm parallel design RCT to investigate
20 the effects of a mixed fibre supplement (1 g glucomannan and 3 g Plantago ovato husk
   taken twice or three times daily) in the context of an energy-restricted diet on weight loss
   and metabolic variables in obese and overweight subjects. The study was designed with
   weight loss as the primary end point and was adequately powered to detect a modest 1.5
   kg greater weight loss in the treatment groups. It was also of longer duration (16 weeks). At
25 the end of the study the two fibres groups had lost marginally more weight (-4.52 (SD 0.56)
   and -4.60 (SD 0.58) kg) than the placebo group (-3.79 (SD 0.58) kg), but the difference
                                                - 12-

   between groups was not significant (P=0.43). The authors concluded that when taken in
   combination with an energy-restricted diet, a Plantago ovato and glucomannan fibre
   supplement has no additional benefit in promoting weight loss. The study did, however,
   demonstrate a favourable reduction in LDL cholesterol with both doses of fibre.
 5         Glucomannan forms a viscous gel on exposure to an aqueous environment. Its
   gelling properties probably account for any weight loss promoting effects by delaying gastric
   emptying, slowing bowel transit time and blunting post-prandial surges in insulin and
   glucose (Chua et al. 2010). It is possible that glucomannan may also exert effects in the
   large bowel that could influence appetite and weight loss. Chen and associates reported
10 that supplementation with 4.5 g/d of glucomannan for 21 d increased SCFA fatty acid
   concentrations and the proportion of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria in the faeces of healthy
   and constipated adults (Chen et al. 2006; Chen et al. 2008).
           Glucomannan as Konjac flour has a long history of incorporation into foods in the
   Far East.    Limited   data from      toxicological and    genotoxicity studies   indicate that
15 glucomannon is safe (Oketani et al. 1991; Nihon Bioresearch Inc. 1992).
           A number of researchers have added glucomannan to biscuits or granola bars
   (Vuksan et al. 1999 & 2000; Yoshida et al. 2006). Weight loss supplements need to contain
   1 g of glucomannan per portion rather than the 3.3 g that Yoshida et al. (2006) incorporated
   into each of their bars. It is possible that 1 g will have less effect on the sensory properties
20 of a food product than 3 g. Glucomannan has been used widely as an emulsifier, stabiliser
   and fat replacer which indicates that it can be successfully incorporated into foods (Chua et
   al. 2010).
           Glucomannan is approved by EFSA for weight loss (EC, 2013) and a supplement
   needs to contain 1 g of glucomannan per quantified portion and consumers need to be
25 informed that a beneficial effect is obtained with a daily intake of 3 x 1 g doses taken with
                                                  -13-

   water before meals in the context of an energy-restricted diet (EC 2013). It is also approved
   for a claim that it helps in the maintenance of normal blood cholesterol concentrations.
   Prebiotics
           A small number of studies have investigated whether acute treatment with prebiotics
 5 influences appetite and food intake. An early study by Archer et al. (2004) investigated the
   acute effect of inulin and lupin kernel fibre on fat intake, total energy intake and ratings of
   satiety over a 24 hour period. Using a 3 way cross-over design they fed participants (33
   males, mean age 52 y, BMI 27.4 (SD 4.1)) a full-fat sausage patty and reduced-fat patties,
   with 50% of the fat replaced with inulin or lupin kernel for breakfast. The inulin containing
10 patty led to a lower total fat intake and total energy intake on the test day, but had no effect
   on measures of satiety in comparison with the full fat patty. The patty containing lupin
   kernel fibre produced similar results, but also increased satiety for up to 5 h post breakfast.
   Peters et al. (2009) examined the acute effects of cereal bars enriched with inulin, p-glucan
   or a combination of inulin and P-glucan on food intake and 6 subjective ratings of hunger
15 over a 2 day test period. They found no difference in energy intake or any of the 6
   subjective ratings of hunger between treatments. In a 3 way cross-over study, Hess et al.
   (2011) fed participants two separate doses of 0, 5 and 8 g of short chain FOS (scFOS). On
   each test day, the first dose was incorporated into a hot cocoa beverage and consumed
   alongside breakfast. The second dose was incorporated into 3 chocolate-flavoured chews
20 and consumed 2 h before dinner. The scFOS treatments failed to alter measures of satiety
   at breakfast or lunch and food intake during an ad libitum lunch. Over the remainder of the
   day, energy intake was significantly lower for women consuming the 16 g dose.
            Only a few studies seem to have reported whether chronic supplementation with
   prebiotics influences adiposity in humans (Abrams et al. 2007; Parnell & Reimer 2009;
25 Genta et al. 2009). Body mass index (BMI) increases during adolescence, with a healthy
   annual increment thought to be between 0.6-0.8 kg/m2 (Maynard et al. 2001). In a
                                                  -14-

   randomised placebo controlled trial, supplementation with FOS (8 g/d) for 12 months
   contributed to the maintenance of an appropriate BMI during pubertal growth (T 0.7 kg/m2 v
   T1.2 k/m2 over 12 months; n=97). This effect was modulated by habitual intake of dietary
   calcium, with prebiotic supplementation exhibiting more benefit in adolescents with a dietary
 5 calcium intake > 700 mg/d (Abrams et al. 2007). In overweight or obese adults (BMI > 25
   kg/m2; n= 48) a 3 month intervention with 21 g/d of FOS elicited a small but significant
   weight loss relative to a maltodextrin control (-1.03 (SD 0.43) kg v +0.45 (SD 0.31) kg;
   Parnell & Reimer 2009). In a study of obese pre-menopausal women (n=35) with slight
   dyslipidaemia, supplementation with yacon syrup (providing 10 g/d of FOS) for 120 d
10 resulted in a remarkably large loss of weight (approx. 15 kg) and associated substantial
   reductions in BMI and waist circumference (Genta et al. 2009).
           Using a randomised, single-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over design, Cani et al.
   (2006) compared the effect of consuming FOS with a maltodextrin placebo (16 g/d x 2 wk)
   on total energy intake and subjective ratings of appetite. At the end of each
15 supplementation period, participants consumed a free-choice buffet meal for breakfast,
   lunch and dinner and rated their satiety, fullness, hunger and prospective food intake on
   visual analogue scales. FOS treatment significantly increased satiety at breakfast and
   dinner, increased fullness at dinner and decreased prospective food intake at dinner. Also,
   FOS treatment elicited a modest 5% reduction in total energy intake over a 24 hour test
20 period. Using a similar experimental design, Cani et al. (2009) reported minor transient
   increases in the release of anorexic gut peptides (GLP-1 & PYY) in response to a test meal
   after 2 weeks of FOS supplementation relative to a maltodextrin placebo. An increase in
   anorexigenic and/or decrease in orexigenic gut peptides have been demonstrated in a few
   other studies (Parnell & Reimer, 2009; Tarini & Wolever 2010; Verhoef et al. 2011).
25         Recently, Harrold et al. (2013) conducted a placebo-controlled randomised cross
   over study to compare the acute effects of a herbal product (Natural Remedies, UK) and a
   commercial inulin supplement (Fibresure; Proctor & Gamble) alone or in combination on
                                              -15-

   appetite and food intake (58 normal to slightly overweight women). The herbal product
   contained Yerbe Mate, Guarana and Damiana (YGD). Both YGD and inulin induced a
   decrease in food intake and energy intake at an ad libitum lunch 4 h 15 min after
   administration, although the effect for YGD was greater than that for inulin (132.2 kcal v
 5 89.84 kcal). These effects were enhanced when YGD and inulin were combined. The
   combination also elicited a significant decrease in hunger and the desire to eat. Studies
   combining inulin/FOS with other dietary fibres are limited. As described earlier Peters et al.
   (2009) explored possible synergies between inulin and p-glucans on food intake and ratings
   of hunger, but found no effect of either supplement alone or in combination.
10          The mechanism(s) through which prebiotics reduce food intake remain to be fully
   clarified, but the modulation of gut hormones may be important. Animal and human studies
   have reported increased release of the anorexigenic gut hormones, GLP-1 and PYY and
   inhibition of the orexigenic gut hormone, ghrelin in response to feeding inulin or FOS (Cani
   et al. 2004; Delzenne et al. 2005; Cani et al. 2009; Parnell & Reimer 2009; Tarini & Wolever
15 2010; Verhoef et al. 2011). These effects seem to be at least in part driven by short chain
   fatty acids produced from the colonic fermentation of prebiotics. GLP-1 and PYY are co
   secreted from enteroendocrine L cells present in the intestinal epithelium (Habib et al.
   2013). L cells contain receptors for SCFA and several experimental studies have
   demonstrated that infusion of SCFA into the colon induces the release of GLP-1 from
20 colonic L cells (Cani et al. 2007). The mechanism(s) through which prebiotics may suppress
   the release of ghrelin are unclear, although it could be through altering the rate of nutrient
   absorption or the osmolality of the intestinal lumen (Overduin et al, 2005). If the effects of
   prebiotics on appetite are driven solely by SCFA rather than an increase in bifidobacteria,
   then similar effects may be expected from the consumption of resistant starch and soluble
25 fibres.
            Inulin is commonly used in the food industry in products such as ice cream, yoghurt
   and margarine as a fat replacer with the aim of reducing energy content. Devereux et al
                                                -16-

   (2003) explored the sensory effects of adding inulin and FOS (range 4 -13 g/100g) to a
   range of other foodstuffs including bakery and meat products. All products were rated as
   acceptable by an untrained sensory panel, although most products were rated lower than
   their full-fat counterparts because of changes in texture and taste.
 5          In addition to sensory acceptability it is important to consider whether food
   processing is likely to destroy the prebiotic activity of inulin and FOS. Huebner et al. (2008)
   explored the effect of pH, heat and Maillard reaction conditions on the prebiotic activity of
   FOS and inulin. Prebiotic activity was reduced by heating at low pH, but stable when
   subjected to low pH alone or Maillard reaction conditions. Bohm et al. (2005) reported that
10 heating at high temperatures for 60 min caused substantial degradation of inulin to form di
   D- fructose dianhydrides. These limited data indicate that it is important to quantify the
   amount of prebiotic in the final food product and/or measure its functional properties.
            Carabin and Flamm (1999) reviewed the toxicological data from animal studies and
   adverse effect reports from clinical trials of inulin and FOS. They concluded that there is no
15 evidence of treatment-related toxicity, genotoxicity or carcinogenicity. Furthermore, they
   failed to find evidence of detrimental effects on mineral absorption, lipid metabolism or
   glycaemic control. Adverse effects were limited to the GI tract, namely bloating, flatulence
   and diarrhoea, with effects becoming evident with single doses > 20 g/d. Minor GI related
   adverse effects have been reported in most interventions with prebiotics, so there is interest
20 in other potentially prebiotic oligosaccharides that may produce less gas. A commercial a
   glucooligosaccharide (BioEcolians; Solibia) has been shown to produce less gas than inulin
   when fermented in a pH-controlled faecal batch culture, so could be a good candidate for
   inclusion in a weight loss product once its efficacy has been demonstrated (Sarbini et al.
   2013).
25          Some FOS and inulin based weight loss supplements are on the market. For
   example, e'lefexir Flat Tummy Plus is a FOS based supplement sold to promote a flat
                                                 -17-

   tummy. Other products include Easyfibre@ FOS, Jarrow Inulin FOS powder and USN Diet
   Fuel Ultra Lean. The latter product is a low GI meal replacement shake that contains a
   weight loss blend of FOS, calcium, N-acetyl-l-carnitine, hydroxycitric acid and fibre.
            A further more detailed analysis of the literature based on efficacy of effect, likely
 5 effects on taste, safety/health effects and potential for synergy narrowed down this list of
   components to those identified in Table 1 below, it also identified an additional prebiotic of
   possible interest.
          Dietary Fibre             Prebiotic                         Mineral
          Glucomannan (1 X 3g/d)    FOS (5-7g, 3 X d)                 Chromium (400pg/d)
                                    Inulin (5-7g, 3 X d)
                                    BioEolians (5-7g, 3 X d)
         Table 1
             Rationale for using glucomannan          as the base ingredient: The efficacy of
10 glucomannan is supported by a meta-analysis of human trials that concluded that
   glucomannan promotes modest weight loss.
             Rationale for incorporation of prebiotics in a weight loss formulation: There is
   evidence from human trials and substantial evidence from animal studies that prebiotics
   may favourably influence makers of appetite, food intake or weight loss. There is also some
15 evidence of other beneficial metabolic and immunological effects that may complement any
   potential weight promoting/appetite suppressive effects. A side effect that is often reported
   in trials with fructan-based prebiotics is mild gastrointestinal distress/flatulence. Recently, a
   number of researchers have started to report that non-fructan based prebiotics produce
   less gas. The incorporatation of one of these prebiotics such as a-gluco-oligosaccharides
20 (BioEcolians, Soliba) or galactooligosaccharides (Vivinal GOS) into a product may prove
   beneficial.
                                                  -18-

            Rationale for incorporation of chromium into a weight loss formulation: Two meta
   analyses of human studies have concluded that supplementation with chromium promotes
   modest weight loss. Moreover, there is some evidence that chromium has other health
   benefits such as reducing fasting blood glucose concentrations and inflammation (Abdollahi
 5 et al. 2013; Chen et al. 2013).
            Possibility of synergy between the identified components: Chromium likely promotes
   weight loss by increasing insulin sensitivity and metabolic rate and perhaps through
   reducing food cravings. These effects seem to be mediated via signalling pathways that
   occur outside of the gastrointestinal tract. In contrast, the effects of glucomannan and
10 prebiotics seem to relate to events occurring in the gut.
            There has only been one study that investigating the effect of a supplement
   containing chromium and prebiotics (inulin) on weight loss in humans (Hoeger et al. 1998).
   In this study, a supplement combining chromium               picolinate, inulin, capsicum, L
   phenylalanine (an amino acid) and other poorly defined lipotropic nutrients caused a greater
15 loss of body fat and maintenance of lean tissue than a placebo treatment in participants
   (n=123) following an aerobic exercise programme and energy restricted diet for 4 weeks
   (Hoeger et al. 1998).
            One very recent study reported that a combination of glucomannan and chromium
   was effective at lowering total and LDL cholesterol in hypercholesterolaemic children
20 whereas glucomannan alone was not, indicating that the components can act in synergy at
   least in relation to the control of blood cholesterol concentrations (Martino et al. 2013).
            The screening suggested that glucomannan, prebiotics and chromium are the best
   likely candidates to include in a weight loss product. Studies reporting inhibition of appetite
   and/or weight loss after supplementation with prebiotics have administered 16-21 g/d in
25 three equal doses, whereas beneficial effects of glucomannan have been reported at a
   daily intake of 3 g, and chromium may be effective at the pg level. The gram doses of
                                                  -19-

   glucomannan and prebiotics make it difficult to incorporate both into a weight loss capsule
   and suggest that a product combining the two would have to be a beverage or food. It is
   suggested that potential vehicles to explore are bread and other cereal/starchy products.
            Average intakes of bread within the UK are approximately 2.5 medium slices of a
 5 large loaf per day (this equates to approximately 90 g) (Bates et al. 2011). Based on
   previous pilot work conducted in SHU, it seems feasible to incorporate prebiotics into bread
   at a concentration of approximately 8-10%. An average intake of bread would therefore
   provide approximately 50% of the recommended daily dose of prebiotics. So, it follows that
   any weight loss formulation would need to be incorporated into perhaps 2 or 3 food different
10 food products that are commonly consumed throughout the day, e.g. breakfast cereals,
   bread, and another starchy staple such as pasta. It will also be necessary to explore the
   stability of glucomannan, prebiotics and chromium to the appropriate food processing
   techniques.
            A weight loss food product should aim to supply 5-7 g of prebiotic, 1 g of
15 glucomannan and 130 pg chromium per average portion.
   Examples
            The figures accompanying the below examples are as follows:
            Figure 1 shows photographs of cross-sectional and side views of a bread made
   according to the recipes outlined in the bread Example A; and
20          Figure 2 shows photographs of three jars of yoghurt prepared according to the
   recipes outlined in the yoghurt Example B, in which (moving left to right) the yoghurt
   products produced were (1) fruit on the bottom, (2) fruit mixed in as pieces and (3) fruit
   mixed in homogeneous.
                                                - 20 -

  Example A - Bread
          Bread products were prepared to compare whether the addition of glucomannan
  and FOS or glucomannan and prebiotics detrimentally affected the production properties
  and consumer experience of the bread. Bread was produced according to the following
5 recipes:
    Standard                                        %
    Strong white flour                            59.17
    Salt                                          1.18
    Flour improver                                1.18
    Sugar                                         1.18
    Vegetable shortening                          2.96
    Yeast                                         1.78
    Water                                         32.54
    Total                                        100.00
    1. GLU/FOS
    Strong white flour                           55.93
    Salt                                          1.12
    Flour improver                                1.12
    Sugar                                         1.12
    Vegetable shortening                          2.80
    Yeast                                         1.68
    Water                                        30.76
    Glucomannan                                   1.89
    FOS                                           3.59
    Total                                        100.00
                                          - 21 -

     2. GLU/BioEcolians (prebiotic)                       %
     Strong white flour                                 55.93
     Salt                                                1.12
     Flour improver                                      1.12
     Sugar                                               1.12
     Vegetable shortening                                2.80
     Yeast                                               1.68
     Water                                              30.76
     Glucomannan                                         1.89
     BioEcolians                                         3.59
     Total                                              100.00
     3. GLU/Bi muno (prebiotic)                            %
     Strong white flour                                  55.82
     Salt                                                1.12
     Flour improver                                      1.12
     Sugar                                               1.12
     Vegetable shortening                                2.79
     Yeast                                               1.67
     Water                                               30.70
     Glucomannan                                         1.89
     Bi muno                                             3.77
     Total                                              100.00
           All of the recipes were mixed and proved for approximately 45 minutes prior to
   cooking at 200   0C for 8-10 minutes.
 5         In comparison to the standard recipe, samples 2, Glucomannan and FOS, 3 and 4,
   Glucomannan and Bio Ecolians and Glucomannan and Bi muno mixed well with no issues.
   The dough itself was slighter tougher to work than the standard product but this did not
   pose a significant issue. Photographs of the different breads are shown in Figure 1.
           The product containing Glucomannan (90% Glucomannan) and FOS, proved prior
10 to baking but failed to rise to the level achieved by the standard product and had a denser,
                                                 - 22 -

   more closed structure post cooking. Colour development in excess of the standard product
   was quickly evidenced during the cooking process. This is as a result of the fructo
   oligosaccharides being high in sugar.
           Upon a short organoleptic assessment of the product amongst the qualified sensory
 5 panel, an increased sweetness was clearly evident in this adapted recipe.
           Roll volume was also affected with the Glucomannan and BioEcolians sample and
   the Glucomannan and Bimuno sample. The impact on colour was less significant and
   produced acceptable products. Both products appeared denser in texture than the standard
   and did not rise during proving to the same degree as the standard product (within the
10 same timeframe). Organoleptic assessment by the trained sensory panel agreed that both
   these products were acceptable in comparison to standard.
           It was felt that the combination of Glucomannan and FOS in the levels tested could
   produce an acceptable product when included in a sweeter bread product such as a tea
   cake, hot cross bun or malt loaf for example.
15         The sample containing the Glucomannan            and BioEcolians sample and the
   Glucomannan and Bimuno sample were considered to be comparable to the standard
   product and acceptable in terms of colour, texture and flavour.
   Example B - Yoqhurt
           A yoghurt product was prepared in order to investigate the potential of using a
20 composition according to the invention in a weight management yoghurt product.           In
   particular, the formulation, blending and organoleptic properties were investigated.
           Three EFSA (European Food Safety Authority)             approved ingredients, GOS
   prebiotic, glucomannan and chromium were added to a yoghurt produced via the common
   yoghurt protocol using a unique combination of strains of Streptococcus thermophilus and
25 Lactobaccillus bulgaricus in order to assess product acceptability via a panel (n=4).
                                                - 23-

   Different formulations were tested and two types were considered acceptable in terms of
   taste, texture/consistency and mouth feel.
            In the recipe, the yoghurt was prepared separately using 2 production strains:
   Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobaccillus bulgaricus. The combination of these 2
 5 strains led to a high viscosity yoghurt (69 sec posthumus).
            To the standard ingredients, GOS prebiotic, glucomannan and chromium were
   added via the fruit. A serving size of 150 g was used which contained per serving size 6 g
   of prebiotic, 1 g of glucomannan, 130 pg chromium.
    Formulation             Standard           GLU                 GLU/Chro/prebiotic
                            g/loog             g/loog              g/lOOg
    yoghurt                                75                   74                   67
    sucrose                                  5                   5                    5
    chromiumchloride 1%                      -                   -              0,0087
    glucomannan                                              0,67                  0,67
    GOS 56%                                  -                   -                  7,1
    fruitpreparation                       20                   20                   20
10          In these recipes, the same type of yoghurt was used. However, if desired, the
   protein and sucrose content of the yoghurt may be adjusted to optimise the protein and
   desired sweetness.
            The yoghurt was prepared using the common yoghurt protocol. To the yoghurt a
   strawberry fruit preparation was added. In comparison to the standard recipe, GOS
15 prebiotic, glucomannan and/or chromium were mixed with the strawberry fruit preparation
   with no issues. After mixing in the glucomannan, the strawberry fruit preparation became
   very viscous/thick within 30 min which was consequently used to prepare the fruited
   yoghurt in three ways after addition of the ingredients.
        -   Direct mixing of the fruit preparation and yoghurt to a homogeneous product;
20      -   Directly adding the fruit preparation on the bottom to stiffen, before pouring the
            yoghurt on top; and
                                                   - 24 -

        -  Stiffening the strawberry preparation and gently mixing in the yoghurt to maintain
           pieces.
       With reference to Figure 2, three types of yoghurt were prepared and tested: (1) fruit on
   the bottom, (2) fruit mixed in as pieces and (3) fruit mixed in homogeneous. Upon a short
 5 organoleptic assessment of the product type by consumer type panel (n=4) the different
   preparations revealed different sensations:
        -  (Type 1) The key effect of the addition of the glucomannan to the fruit was that
           although the visual impression was that it was a tough gel, it was actually very
           smooth, viscous and easy to smoothen in the mouth. Yoghurt flavour was
10         recognizable.
        -  (Type 2) The presence of fruit pieces (or on the bottom and mixed in with the
           yoghurt portion) provided a more fruity sensation of the product. Yoghurt flavour was
           recognizable.
        -  (Type 3) The homogeneous product was evaluated as gluey like/sticky and coating
15         the mouth with a less attractive flavour.
           All yoghurt types had a thickness which was expected for a stirred yoghurt type. The
   sweetness of the yoghurt types differed. The yoghurt type 1 was regarded as less sweet
   compared to type 3.
           The combination of GOS, glucomannan, chromium in the levels tested could
20 produce an acceptable product when used by addition via a fruit preparation. The samples
   containing ingredients in the fruit preparation and provided as fruit on the bottom and/or as
   pieces in the product (type 1 and type 2) were considered the best and acceptable in terms
   of taste, texture/consistency and mouth feel.
                                                 - 25 -

   Example Formulations
          The following formulations are theoretical examples of formulations which may be
   prepared and consumed as a formulation dose in a capsule, tablet or powder form or pre
   blended with a food product such as a dough-based product or yoghurt.
 5 Formulation 1: Glucomannan, FOS and chromium
           1g glucamannan
           5g FOS
           130 pg chromium
   Formulation 2: Glucomannan and chromium alone
10         1g glucamannan
           130 pg chromium
   Formulation 3: Glucomannan and FOS
           1g glucamannan
           5g FOS
15 Formulation 4: Glucomannan and a low gas producing prebiotic
                   1g glucamannan
                   5g BioEolians
          All of the above example formulations are intended to be administered three times a
   day with water.
                                             - 26 -

           The forgoing embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the protection
   afforded by the claims, but rather to describe examples of how the invention may be put
   into practice.
   List of References
 5 Abdollahi M, Farshchi A, Nikfar S, Seyedifar M. Effect of chromium on glucose and lipid
   profiles in patients with type 2 diabetes; a meta-analysis review of randomized trials. J
   Pharm Pharm Sci. 2013;16(1):99-114.
   ABRAMS, S. A., GRIFFIN, I. J., HAWTHORNE, K. M. & ELLIS, K. J. 2007. Effect of
   prebiotic supplementation and calcium intake on body mass index. J Pediatr, 151, 293-8.
10 ACHANTA, K., ARYANA, K.J., BOENEKE, C.A. 2007. Fat free plain set yogurts fortified
   with various minerals. Food Sci Tech, 40, 424-429.
   ANDERSON, R. A. 1998a. Chromium, glucose intolerance and diabetes. J Am Coll Nutr,
   17, 548-55.
   ANDERSON, R. A. 1998b. Effects of chromium on body composition and weight loss. Nutr
15 Rev, 56, 266-70.
   ARCHER, B. J., JOHNSON, S. K., DEVEREUX, H. M. & BAXTER, A. L. 2004. Effect of fat
   replacement by inulin or lupin-kernel fibre on sausage patty acceptability, post-meal
   perceptions of satiety and food intake in men. Br J Nutr, 91, 591-9.
   ATTENBURROW, M. J., ODONTIADIS, J., MURRAY, B. J., COWEN, P. J. & FRANKLIN,
20 M. 2002. Chromium treatment decreases the sensitivity of 5-HT2A receptors.
   Psychopharmacology (Berl), 159, 432-6.
   BATES B, LENNOX A, BATES C et al. (2011) National Diet and Nutrition Survey. Headline
   results from years 1 and 2 (combined) of the Rolling Programme (2008/2009-2009/10).
   Food Standards Agency & Department of Health, London.
25 BOHM, A., KAISER, I., TREBSTEIN, A. & HENLE, T. 2005. Heat-induced degradation of
   inulin. European Food Research and Technology, 220, 466-471.
   CANI, P. D., JOLY, E., HORSMANS, Y. & DELZENNE, N. M. 2006. Oligofructose promotes
   satiety in healthy human: a pilot study. Eur J Clin Nutr, 60, 567-72.
                                                 - 27 -

   CANI, P. D., HOSTE, S., GUIOT, Y. & DELZENNE, N. M. 2007. Dietary non-digestible
   carbohydrates promote L-cell differentiation in the proximal colon of rats. Br J Nutr, 98, 32
   7.
   CANI, P. D., LECOURT, E., DEWULF, E. M., SOHET, F. M., PACHIKIAN, B. D., NASLAIN,
 5 D., DE BACKER, F., NEYRINCK, A. M. & DELZENNE, N. M. 2009. Gut microbiota
   fermentation of prebiotics increases satietogenic and incretin gut peptide production with
   consequences for appetite sensation and glucose response after a meal. Am J Clin Nutr,
   90, 1236-43.
   CARABIN, I. G. & FLAMM, W. G. 1999. Evaluation of safety of inulin and oligofructose as
10 dietary fiber. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol, 30, 268-82.
   CHEN, H. L., CHENG, H. C., LIU, Y. J., LIU, S. Y. & WU, W. T. 2006. Konjac acts as a
   natural laxative by increasing stool bulk and improving colonic ecology in healthy adults.
   Nutrition, 22, 1112-9.
   CHEN, H. L., CHENG, H. C., WU, W. T., LIU, Y. J. & LIU, S. Y. 2008. Supplementation of
15 konjac glucomannan into a low-fiber Chinese diet promoted bowel movement and improved
   colonic ecology in constipated adults: a placebo-controlled, diet-controlled trial. JAm Col
   Nutr, 27, 102-8.
   CHUA, M., BALDWIN, T. C., HOCKING, T. J. & CHAN, K. 2010. Traditional uses and
   potential health benefits of Amorphophallus konjac K. Koch ex N.E.Br. J Ethnopharmacol,
20 128, 268-78.
   DELZENNE, N. M., CANI, P. D., DAUBIOUL, C. & NEYRINCK, A. M. 2005. Impact of inulin
   and oligofructose on gastrointestinal peptides. Br J Nutr, 93 Suppl 1, S157-61.
   DEVEREUX, H. M., JONES, G. P., McCORMACK, L., & HUNTER, W. C. 2003. Consumer
   acceptability of low fat foods containing inulin and oligofructose. J Food Sci, 68, 1850-1854.
25 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH (1991): Dietary Reference Values for Food Energy and
   Nutrients for the United Kingdom. Report on Health and Social Subjects No. 41. HSMO,
   London
   DOI, K. 1995. Effect of konjac fibre (glucomannan) on glucose and lipids. Eur J Clin Nutr,
   49 Suppl 3, S190-7.
                                                -  28 -

   GENTA, S., CABRERA, W., HABIB, N., PONS, J., CARILLO, I. M., GRAU, A. & SANCHEZ,
   S. 2009. Yacon syrup: beneficial effects on obesity and insulin resistance in humans. Clin
   Nutr, 28, 182-7.
   HABIB, A. M., RICHARDS, P., ROGERS, G. J., REIMANN, F. & GRIBBLE, F. M. 2013. Co
 5 localisation and secretion of glucagon-like peptide 1 and peptide YY from primary cultured
   human L cells. Diabetologia, 56, 1413-6.
   HARROLD, J. A., HUGHES, G. M., O'SHIEL, K., QUINN, E., BOYLAND, E. J., WILLIAMS,
   N. J. & HALFORD, J. C. 2013. Acute effects of a herb extract formulation and inulin fibre on
   appetite, energy intake and food choice. Appetite, 62, 84-90.
10 HESS, J. R., BIRKETT, A. M., THOMAS, W. & SLAVIN, J. L. 2011. Effects of short-chain
   fructooligosaccharides on satiety responses in healthy men and women. Appetite, 56, 128
   34.
   Hoeger WW, Harris C, Long EM, Hopkins DR. Four-week supplementation with a natural
   dietary compound produces favorable changes in body composition. Adv.Ther. 1998 Sep
15 Oct; 15 (5):305-14.
   HUEBNER, J., WEHLING, R. L., PARKHURST, A. & HUTKINS, R. W. 2008. Effect of
   processing conditions on the prebiotic activity of commercial prebiotics. International Dairy
   Journal, 18, 287-293.
   KROL, E., KREJPCIO, Z., BYKS, H., BOGDANSKI, P. & PUPEK-MUSIALIK, D. 2011.
20 Effects of chromium brewer's yeast supplementation on body mass, blood carbohydrates,
   and lipids and minerals in type 2 diabetic patients. Biol Trace Elem Res, 143, 726-37.
   MARTINO, F., PUDDU, P. E., PANNARALE, G., COLANTONI, C., MARTINO, E., NIGLIO,
   T., ZANONI, C. & BARILLA, F. 2013. Low dose chromium-polynicotinate or policosanol is
   effective in hypercholesterolemic children only in combination with glucomannan.
25 Atherosclerosis, 228, 198-202.
   MAYNARD, L. M., WISEMANDLE, W., ROCHE, A. F., CHUMLEA, W. C., GUO, S. S. &
   SIERVOGEL, R. M. 2001. Childhood body composition in relation to body mass index.
   Pediatrics, 107, 344-50.
   NIHON BIORESEARCH INC. HASHIMA LABORATORY, JAPAN. 1992. Study No. 823 1,
30 Antigenicity Study of Propal A Using Bacteria
                                                - 29 -

   OKETANI Y, ICHIKAWA K, ONO, C. 1991. Toxicity studies on glucomannan (1) acute
   toxicity in mice and rats. Journal of Applied Pharmacology, 27, 127-131.
   ONAKPOYA, I., POSADZKI, P. & ERNST, E. 2013. Chromium supplementation in
   overweight and obesity: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials.
 5 Obes Rev, 14, 496-507.
   OVERDUIN, J., FRAYO, R. S., GRILL, H. J., KAPLAN, J. M. & CUMMINGS, D. E. 2005.
   Role of the duodenum and macronutrient type in ghrelin regulation. Endocrinology, 146,
   845-50.
   PARNELL, J. A. & REIMER, R. A. 2009. Weight loss during oligofructose supplementation
10 is associated with decreased ghrelin and increased peptide YY in overweight and obese
   adults. Am J Clin Nutr, 89, 1751-9.
   PETERS, H. P., BOERS, H. M., HADDEMAN, E., MELNIKOV, S. M. & QVYJT, F. 2009. No
   effect of added beta-glucan or of fructooligosaccharide on appetite or energy intake. Am J
   Clin Nutr, 89, 58-63.
15 PITTLER, M. H., STEVINSON, C. & ERNST, E. 2003. Chromium picolinate for reducing
   body weight: meta-analysis of randomized trials. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord, 27, 522-9.
   SALAS-SALVADO, J., FARRES, X., LUQUE, X., NAREJOS, S., BORRELL, M., BASORA,
   J., ANGUERA, A., TORRES, F., BULLO, M. & BALANZA, R. 2008. Effect of two doses of a
   mixture of soluble fibres on body weight and metabolic variables in overweight or obese
20 patients: a randomised trial. Br J Nutr, 99, 1380-7.
   SOOD, N., BAKER, W. L. & COLEMAN, C. I. 2008. Effect of glucomannan on plasma lipid
   and glucose concentrations, body weight, and blood pressure: systematic review and meta
   analysis. Am J Clin Nutr, 88, 1167-75.
   TARINI, J. & WOLEVER, T. M. 2010. The fermentable fibre inulin increases postprandial
25 serum short-chain fatty acids and reduces free-fatty acids and ghrelin in healthy subjects.
   Apple Physiol Nutr Metab, 35, 9-16.
   VERHOEF, S. P., MEYER, D. & WESTERTERP, K. R. 2011. Effects of oligofructose on
   appetite profile, glucagon-like peptide 1 and peptide YY3-36 concentrations and energy
   intake. Br J Nutr, 106, 1757-62.
                                                 - 30 -

   VUKSAN, V., JENKINS, A. L., ROGOVIK, A. L., FAIRGRIEVE, C. D., JOVANOVSKI, E. &
   LEITER, L. A. 2011. Viscosity rather than quantity of dietary fibre predicts cholesterol
   lowering effect in healthy individuals. Br J Nutr, 106, 1349-52.
   VUKSAN, V., JENKINS, D. J., SPADAFORA, P., SIEVENPIPER, J. L., OWEN, R.,
 5 VIDGEN, E., BRIGHENTI, F., JOSSE, R., LEITER, L. A. & BRUCE-THOMPSON, C. 1999.
   Konjac-mannan (glucomannan) improves glycemia and other associated risk factors for
   coronary heart disease in type 2 diabetes. A randomized controlled metabolic trial. Diabetes
   Care, 22, 913-9.
   VUKSAN, V., SIEVENPIPER, J. L., OWEN, R., SWILLEY, J. A., SPADAFORA, P.,
10 JENKINS, D. J., VIDGEN, E., BRIGHENTI, F., JOSSE, R. G., LEITER, L. A., XU, Z. &
   NOVOKMET, R. 2000. Beneficial effects of viscous dietary fiber from Konjac-mannan in
   subjects with the insulin resistance syndrome: results of a controlled metabolic trial.
   Diabetes Care, 23, 9-14.
   YAZAKI, Y., FARIDI, Z., MA, Y., ALI, A., NORTHRUP, V., NJIKE, V. Y., LIBERTI, L. &
15 KATZ, D. L. 2010. A pilot study of chromium picolinate for weight loss. JAltern Complement
   Med, 16, 291-9.
   YOSHIDA, M., VANSTONE, C. A., PARSONS, W. D., ZAWISTOWSKI, J. & JONES, P. J.
   2006. Effect of plant sterols and glucomannan on lipids in individuals with and without type
   II diabetes. Eur J Clin Nutr, 60, 529-37
20
                                                 - 31 -

   Claims
   1.     A composition comprising:
          a)      a microbiome modifying component;
          b)      a satiety modifying component; and
 5        c)      a metabolic modifying component.
   2.     A composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the microbiome modifying component
          comprises one or more microbial strains.
   3.     A composition as claimed in either claim 1 or 2, wherein the microbiome modifying
          component comprises a growth medium for one or more microbial strains.
10 4.     A composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the micrbiome modifying component
          comprises a selective microbial growth inhibitor and/or microbial cidal compound.
   5.     A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the growth medium
          comprises a prebiotic and/or probiotic.
   6.     A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the satiety modifying
15        component acts mechanistically to suppress appetite.
   7.     A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the metabolic modifying
          component acts to increase metabolism and/or modify insulin sensitivity.
   8.     A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the microbiome modifying
          component comprises a prebiotic; the satiety modifying component comprises
20        dietary fibre and the metabolic modifying component comprises chromium.
    9.    A composition as claimed in claim 8, wherein the dietary fibre comprises
          glucomannan and/or the prebiotic comprises one or more selected from: inulin,
                                              - 32 -

       fructooligosaccharides (FOS), galactooligosaccharides (GOS), a-gluco
       oligosaccharides, a low gas producing prebiotic and combinations thereof.
   10. A composition as claimed either claim 8 or 9, wherein the composition comprises
       the dietary fibre in the range of 0.5 to 15g.
 5 11. A composition as claimed in claims 8 to 10, wherein the composition comprises
       chromium in the range of 50 to 1OOOpg.
   12. A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the composition
       comprises a prebiotic in the range of 3 to 30g.
   13. A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the composition
10     comprises a combination of:
       (a)     glucomannan and chromium;
       (b)     glucomannan, FOS and chromium;
       (c)     glucomannan and FOS; or
       (d)     glucomannan and a low gas producing prebiotic.
15 14. A composition as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the composition is in the
       form of a capsule.
   15. A composition as claimed in claim 14, wherein the composition further comprises an
       excipient or carrier compound to modify the release profile or one or more of the
       components through the intestinal environment.
20 16. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the composition is in
       the form of a food stuff or food additive.
   17. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, for use as a dietary
       supplement.
                                              - 33 -

   18. A composition as claimed in any preceding claims, wherein the composition further
       comprises one or more active ingredients selected from: vitamins, minerals,
       phytochemicals, antioxidants, and combinations thereof.
   19. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, for use as a medicament.
 5 20. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, for weight management in an
       individual.
   21. A composition for use in the treatment of obesity, elevated cholesterol, diabetes,
       hypertension or heart disease comprising:
       a)      a microbiome modifying component;
10     b)      a satiety modifying component; and
       c)      a metabolic modifying component.
   22. A composition as claimed in claim 21, wherein the microbiome modifying
       component comprises one or more microbial strains.
   23. A composition as claimed in either claim 21 or 22, wherein the microbiome
15     modifying component comprises a growth medium for one or more microbial strains.
   24. A composition as claimed in claim 21, wherein the micrbiome modifying component
       comprises a selective microbial growth inhibitor and/or microbial cidal compound.
   25. A composition as claimed in claim 21 to 23, wherein the microbiome modifying
       component comprises a prebiotic and/or probiotic.
20 26. A composition as claimed in claims 21 to 25, wherein the satiety modifying
       component acts mechanistically to suppress appetite.
   27. A composition as claimed in claims 21 to 26, wherein the metabolic modifying
       component acts to increase metabolism and/or modify insulin sensitivity.
                                           - 34 -

   28. A composition as claimed in claims 21 to 27, wherein the micorbiome modifying
       component comprises a prebiotic; the satiety modifying component comprises
       dietary fibre and the metabolic modifying component comprises chromium.
   29. A composition as claimed in claim 28, wherein the dietary fibre is selected from
 5     comprises glucomannan and/or the prebiotic comprises one or more selected from
       the following: inulin, fructooligosaccharides (FOS), galactooligosaccharides (GOS),
       a-gluco-oligosaccharides, a low gas producing prebiotic and combinations thereof.
   30. A composition as claimed in either claim 28 or 29, wherein the composition
       comprises the dietary fibre in a dose of the range of 0.5 to 5g per day.
10 31. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 228to 30, wherein the composition
       comprises chromium in a dose in the range of 50 to 1OOOpg per day.
   32. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 25 to 31, wherein the composition
       comprises the prebiotic in a dose of 3 to 30g per day.
   33. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 32, wherein the composition
15     comprises a combination of:
       (a)      glucomannan and chromium;
       (b)      glucomannan, FOS and chromium;
       (c)      glucomannan and FOS; or
       (d)      glucomannan and a low gas producing prebiotic.
20 34. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 33, wherein the composition is
       in the form of a capsule.
                                             - 35 -

   35. A composition as claimed in claim 34, wherein the composition further comprises an
       excipient or carrier compound to modify the release profile or one or more of the
       components through the intestinal environment.
   36. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 35, wherein the composition
 5     further comprises one or more active ingredients selected from: vitamins, minerals,
       phytochemicals, antioxidants, and combinations thereof.
   37. A method of producing a composition comprising: providing a microbiome modifying
       component; a satiety modifying component; and a metabolic modifying component;
       and mixing the components together so as to form the composition.
10 38. A method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the method is used to form a composition
       as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20.
   39. A method of producing a composition for use in the treatment of obesity, elevated
       cholesterol, diabetes, hypertension or heart disease comprising: providing a
       microbiome modifying component; a satiety modifying component; and a metabolic
15     modifying component; and mixing the components together so as to form the
       composition.
   40. A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the method is used to form a composition
       as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 36.
                                           - 36 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
