                                         ABSTRACT
A computer implemented method can include selecting a first flow rate model for a well,
providing reservoir data to the first flow rate model, providing production history data to
the first flow rate model, computing a solution to the first flow rate model and comparing
the solution to production history data. A method can include implementing dual, triple
or quad porosity models of a reservoir and history matching a model against actual well
production data. A method can include comparing one or more models and determining
whether a parameter has a unique solution. A system can include a computer readable
medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the
processor to perform one or more methods.

WO 2015/102632                                            PCT/US2014/010036
                                     1/10
                                                            K-  100
              101>
                   Input reservoir data and production
                                  history
              102:
                              Select model
              103:
                       Change param in the model
                  (if necessary) to get a close solution
              104>                   I
                     Weigh data points appropriately
              105:
                         Automatic history match
              106-               7
                            All models done              No
              107                      Yes
                  Select best model (AIC, BIC, F-test)
              108-i          slt
                Non-unique solution sensitivity analysis
                                     FIG. 1

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
                HISTORY MATCHING MULTI-POROSITY SOLUTIONS
 5                                  FIELD OF INVENTION
   [0001]     The embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to methods and systems for
   determining reservoir properties and fracture properties in oil and gas wells.
                              BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
   [0002]     To maximize the production from an oil and/or gas well, it can be important to
10 have an accurate computer model of the well. Fractured oil and gas reservoirs can be
   challenging to characterize and model, however.       These challenges can arise, in part,
   because such reservoirs comprise the combination of interacting natural reservoir media
   and the fractures contained therein, each of which has different parameters, such as
   porosity and permeability. Multi porosity models, such as dual, triple and quad porosity
15 models, have been developed to model naturally fractured reservoirs.           Conventional
   models can typically rely on well pressure to determine reservoir properties. It can also
   be advantageous to model a reservoir based on actual history.            History matching,
   however, can be a nonlinear problem and mathematically accurate models may have
   multiple solutions.    Therefore, there is a need in the art for improved methods and
20 systems for determining reservoir properties and fracture properties in wells, such as oil
   and gas wells.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   [0003]     FIG. 1 is a flow diagram illustrating exemplary history matching multi-porosity
   modeling according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
25 [0004]     FIG. 2 is a graphical user interface providing exemplary history matching
   multi-porosity modeling data according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0005]     FIG. 3A is a schematic perspective view of an exemplary dual porosity model
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0006]     FIG. 3B is a plan view of the embodiment depicted in FIG. 3A.
30 [0007]     FIG. 4A is a schematic perspective view of an exemplary triple porosity model
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0008]     FIG. 4B is a plan view of the embodiment depicted in FIG. 4A.
                                               1

   WO 2015/102632                                                           PCT/US2014/010036
   [0009]      FIG. 5 is a graphical user interface providing exemplary history matching
   multi-porosity modeling data according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0010]      FIG. 6 is another graphical user interface providing exemplary history
   matching multi-porosity modeling data according to an embodiment of the present
 5 disclosure.
   [0011]      FIG. 7 is a graphical user interface illustrating an exemplary model comparison
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0012]      FIG. 8 is a graphical user interface illustrating another exemplary model
   comparison according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
10 [0013]      FIG. 9A is a graphical user interface illustrating an exemplary comparison of
   models with production data according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0014]      FIG. 9B is a graphical user interface illustrating another exemplary comparison
   of models with production data according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0015]      FIG. 10 is a graphical user interface illustrating an exemplary statistical
15 distribution according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   [0016]      FIG. 11 is a graphical user interface illustrating another exemplary statistical
   distribution according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF DISCLOSED EMBODIMENTS
   [0017]      As an initial matter, it will be appreciated that the development of an actual,
20 real commercial application incorporating aspects of the disclosed embodiments can and
   likely will require many implementation-specific decisions to achieve the developer's
   ultimate goal for the commercial embodiment. Such implementation-specific decisions
   may include,      and    likely are   not limited to,       compliance  with    system-related,
   business-related, government-related and other constraints, which may vary by specific
25 implementation, location and from time to time. While a developer's efforts might be
   complex and time-consuming in an absolute sense, such efforts would nevertheless be a
   routine undertaking for those of skill in this art having the benefits of this disclosure.
   [0018]      It should also be understood that the embodiments disclosed and taught herein
   are susceptible to numerous and various modifications and alternative forms. Thus, the
30 use of a singular term, such as, but not limited to, "a" and the like, is not intended as
   limiting of the number of items. Similarly, any relational terms, such as, but not limited
   to, "top," ''bottom," "left," "right," "upper," "lower," 'down," '"up," "side," and the like,
                                                2

   WO 2015/102632                                                           PCT/US2014/010036
   used in the written description are for clarity in specific reference to the drawings and are
   not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.
   [0019]     In one embodiment, there can be provided a method for determining reservoir
   properties and fracture properties in oil and gas wells based on dimensionless flow rate
 5 using computerized modeling. A computational model generally refers to a mathematical
   model that simulates the behavior of a system, such as the production from an oil and/or
   gas well, and allows a user to analyze the behavior of the system. In an embodiment,
   modeling using a dimensionless flow rate model of a hydrocarbon well can allow for
   determining reservoir and fracture properties from data sources where daily and/or
10 monthly rates are available but the flowing pressure is not available. An example of such
   a data source would be the Texas Railroad Commission public cumulative production of
   oil, water and gas for all the wells in Texas. The data from this source can be used to
   determine a flow rate, but it typically does not provide the daily pressure data for the well,
   which can be a requirement in some computational models. In an embodiment using a
15 dimensionless rate solution, this or other public data can be used for determining reservoir
   and fracture properties, even though the daily pressure data may be unavailable. This can
   allow a well engineer or other user to compare wells in the same geographical area (or
   others).  While embodiments of the present disclosure can use pressure information if
   available, such information is not required because both rate and pressure exist in the
20 same equation. In other words, to avoid having two partial derivatives in one equation
   (making the equation underdetermined), one can be made constant.                 This can be
   considered a significant difference between an analytical solution and a numerical
   solution.   That is, in a numerical solution, both variables can change over time; but,
   during a single time step, one of them can be constant.           Public production data and
25 information about wells can be available from multiple sources, including, for example,
   private web services such as DrillingInfo.com, and one or more state government's public
   web service.
   [0020]     FIG. 1 is a flow diagram 100 illustrating exemplary history matching multi
   porosity modeling according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.          In block 101
30 reservoir data and production history can be provided to a computational model of a well.
   The production history is the actual data (or relevant portions of such data) measured at
   the well while it is in operation. The full range of information can include, for example,
   pressures, temperatures, volumes of oil, water, and gas produced by the well, and other
                                               3

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   information gathered by the well operator.         Of course, the full range of available
   production information would be known to the well operator, but may not generally be
   available to the public. Although it can be desirable to have as much information about a
   well as possible, one or more embodiments of the present disclosure can allow accurate
 5 modeling and determination of reservoir properties and fracture properties using only the
   oil, gas and water flow rates of the well at hand, which can be any well. Depending on
   the location of the well, operators are sometimes required to make at least some well
   information public.     In the U.S., for example, public data can typically include the
   volumes of oil, water and gas produced by a particular well, such as on a monthly or other
10 periodic basis.
   [0021]      Providing historical data to a computational model can be performed in any
   manner that allows the computational model to access the data during operation. In one
   embodiment, which is but one of many, historical data can be entered manually, for
   example, through a suitable graphical user interface ("GUI") implemented on a computer
15 containing or having access to the computational model.            In another embodiment,
   historical data can be stored on a suitable storage medium, such as a hard disk, CD ROM,
   or flash drive that can be accessed or read by a processor, such as the processor executing
   the computational model. For example, historical data can be stored in the form of an
   Excel spreadsheet which can be accessed by the model. In still another embodiment,
20 historical data can be stored on a computer system having a computer processor separate
   from the computer processor executing the computational model.            For example, the
   historical data can be provided through a system configured in a client-server
   architecture, where the historical data can be stored on a server computer which can be
   accessed over a computer network by the computational model that can be running on a
25 client computer processor. In yet another embodiment, a computational model can access
   historical data on a remote computer, such as through the Internet or through distributed
   computing or cloud computing architectures.        As an example, for a project in a given
   geographic area (which can be any geographic area), a web service, in which the
   historical data can be stored on a computer server, can be accessed by a client computer
30 over the Internet. A client computer can also be the modeling computer, or it can simply
   retrieve historical data for later access by a modeling computer.       Accessing historical
   data can, but need not, include filtering inputs, such as to narrow the scope of wells from
   or regarding which to obtain the production data. Filtering options or criteria can include,
                                               4

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   for example, latitude and longitude, public land survey, operator name, well name, or
   other information, such as well American Petroleum Institute ("API") number or other
   identifying information. Once the scope of well data has been defined, the web service
   can transfer the data to a user defined location.    Once the data is made available, the
 5 monthly cumulative volumes for oil, water and gas that were reported to a state, for
   example, can be converted to average monthly rates in view of their corresponding
   cumulative amounts of time. An Excel spreadsheet can be useful for this purpose. For
   instance, in at least one embodiment, an application or model can read or otherwise obtain
   data from an Excel spreadsheet which, for example, can be obtained from a comma
10 separated values ("CSV") file including the data, or another source. The multi-porosity
   computational model, discussed in embodiments below, can then consume this data and
   analyze it. Other information provided in block 101 can include reservoir data. Reservoir
   data can include data about well geometry and permeability, for example. In at least one
   embodiment, which is but one of many, a GUI can be provided for allowing entry of one
15 or more parameters into a model engine.
   [0022]     FIG. 2 is a graphical user interface providing exemplary history matching
   multi-porosity modeling data according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. On
   the right hand side of the screen in this embodiment, the GUI can allow entry of one or
   more parameters, such as, for example, matrix permeability km, man-made or secondary
20 hydraulic fracture permeability kF, natural fracture permeability kf, fracture length (or, in
   some embodiments the half-length) LF, number of secondary fractures, number of natural
   fractures, and skin. In the embodiment of FIG. 2, which is but one of many, the number
   of fractures can be the length of a drainage area of the model divided by LF. The "skin"
   can be the pressure drop caused by a flow restriction in a near-wellbore region.          Of
25 course, it will be appreciated that this is only one embodiment, and that additional
   parameters can be added to (or omitted from) the GUI, for example, depending on the
   model used, the preferences of the system designer, or a particular application at hand.
   For example, if a computational model makes use of historical pressure information, then
   a similar entry window can be provided. The reservoir data can also be provided in one
30 or more embodiments in like manners as those described with respect to the historical
   data, for example, through a spreadsheet or from suitable computer storage media located
   on the same computer executing the computational model or a remote computer
   accessible over a computer network or otherwise. Similarly, in other embodiments, the
                                              5

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   GUI shown in FIG. 2 can be provided on the same computer as the model or on a separate
   computer disposed in communication with the model computer.
   [0023]      In one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, it can be useful to hold
   some of the parameters constant rather than recalculate them. This can allow a user (e.g.,
 5 a well engineer) to analyze how the output of the computational model can change in
   response to variations in one or more of its input parameters. Therefore, in the GUI 200
   according to the embodiment depicted in FIG. 2, check boxes 210 can be provided to the
   left of each parameter.    Checking the box can provide an input to the computational
   model, for example, so that the parameter can be iteratively calculated by the model when
10 executed by the system computer.         If the box is unchecked, however, then this can
   provide an input to the computational model so that the model can hold the corresponding
   parameter constant while only the parameters associated with the checked boxes can be
   iteratively calculated by the computational model. Such an embodiment can be useful in
   performing sensitivity analyses, for example.      It will of course be understood that the
15 above-mentioned inputs can be provided in other manners as well, including in the
   reverse of the order described (i.e., unchecking a box corresponds to iterative calculations
   while checked boxes correspond to constants).
   [0024]      The values of one or more parameters can be displayed, such as in a series of
   windows 211 in the GUI placed in relation to each parameter. Data entry boxes 212 can
20 be provided, which can allow a user to enter values for each parameter. A user initially
   can provide a first set of inputs in data entry boxes 212 for the computational model to
   use as initial values for the parameters. These initial values can be estimated based on
   known or estimated values for similar wells in the area, for instance. They can also be
   chosen based on typical values or on the user's skill or experience. For example, typical
25 values for porosity can be around 4 - 10 percent in some formations or locations, such as
   the so-called Eagle Ford shale, for example. Details of a well design can, but need not,
   provide or suggest a maximum limit for the total number of fractures, and can also
   provide or suggest a range for other fracture properties based on other analyses. In an
   embodiment, a computational model can iteratively re-calculate values for one or more
30 parameters, for example, until the model can determine a solution that matches the
   historical data. The final values of one or more parameters, such as iteratively calculated
   by the computational model, can then be displayed in one or more windows 211.
                                                6

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   [0025]     On, for example, the left hand side of the GUI embodiment depicted in FIG. 2,
   which is but one of many, a display can show a comparison of a model result 201,
   indicated by the solid line, and production data 202, indicated by the series of data points.
   This can provide a visual indication of the computational model solution and how it
 5 performs against historical data. One or more other features can be included in a GUI (or
   plurality of GUIs), such as in the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 2. For example, a GUI
   can include controls or other inputs for one of more functions, such as for selecting the
   axes type 203, performing history matching 204, performing sensitivity analyses 205,
   weighing historic data 206, calculating a slope of the model 207, selecting the model flow
10 pattern 208, separately or in combination with one or more other mechanisms, such as for
   selecting a transient or steady state analysis 209. One or more GUIs can be implemented
   as an algorithm on the same computer implementing the computational model. In one or
   more other embodiments, the GUI(s) can be implemented on a separate computer, for
   example, a computer or plurality of computers that can provide reservoir information to a
15 model over a local network, over the Internet, or by way of another system for allowing
   or implementing data transfer or other communication between two or more computers.
   [0026]     A transient analysis, or unsteady state analysis, can assume that interaction
   between fractures and a matrix is changing during a given flow time interval. The pseudo
   steady state analysis can assume that interaction between fractures and a matrix is
20 constant during a given flow time interval.
   [0027]     The initial values for the parameters supplied by a user through a GUI (e.g., the
   GUI of FIG. 2) can be provided to a computational model of a well.                Exemplary
   embodiments of a computational model using a dimensionless flow rate will be described
   with respect to FIGS. 3A - 4B. FIGS. 3A - 4B provide schematic depictions of geometry
25 that can be used according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. FIG.
   3A is a schematic perspective view of an exemplary dual porosity model according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure.        FIG. 3B is a plan view of the embodiment
   depicted in FIG. 3A. FIG. 4A is a schematic perspective view of an exemplary triple
   porosity model according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. FIG. 4B is a plan
30 view of the embodiment depicted in FIG. 4A. FIGS. 3A-4B will be described in
   conjunction with one another. A well drainage area can be modeled as a rectangular
   block of subsurface matrix having a length x, width y, and a height h. The horizontal
   wellbore 301 can run through the matrix (e.g., through the middle) along length x.
                                               7

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   Extending outwardly along both sides of a horizontal wellbore 301 can be the main
   hydraulic fractures 302. The hydraulic fractures 302 can serve to transport hydrocarbons
   from a formation matrix to a wellbore 301. The fracture length LF can be modeled as a
   length between the main hydraulic fractures in a formation matrix, as shown in the
 5 figures. One-half of the fracture length, or LF/ 2 , can be the distance from the formation
   fracture to a center of the relevant section of matrix 300. This can be seen in the plan
   view of the dual porosity geometry model shown in FIG 3B. In the dual porosity model,
   the matrix can be assigned a matrix or reservoir permeability km and each main, or
   hydraulic, fracture 302 can be assigned a permeability kF.
10 [0028]      With continuing reference to the Figures, and specific reference to FIGS. 4A
   4B, a triple porosity model geometry can be similar to the dual porosity model except that
   in addition to the main hydraulic fractures 402, the triple porosity model can include
   additional fractures 403 running along the length x of a formation matrix 400 to simulate
   natural fractures.    Fractures 403 in the triple porosity model, sometimes referred to as
15 natural fractures, can be assigned a permeability kf.            An exemplary geometric
   arrangement of the fractures is depicted in the plan view of the geometry of the triple
   porosity model shown in FIG. 4B. The geometry of the multi-porosity models can be
   adapted to include any number of fractures required by or appropriate for a particular
   application. For example, a quad porosity model can be constructed by extending the
20 model to an additional set of fractures that could be modeled, e.g., as running along both
   the length x and width y of a formation matrix, such as at the midpoint of the matrix
   height h, or at another location along height h.          Such additional fractures can be
   considered to be disposed in one or more planes, such as a plane that can be described as
   the "z" plane.       These fractures can also be assigned one or more permeability
25 designations. For convenience, in a multi-porosity model, it can be useful to adopt the
   designation ki, where "i" represents an index of n number of porosities or other variables
   associated with "i" number of fractures. This notation will be adopted in describing one
   or more embodiments below, which notation those of skill in the art will appreciate
   reflects the form of a multi-porosity model.
30 [0029]      In at least one embodiment of Applicants' present disclosure, a linear flow of
   fluid(s) through one or more of embodiments of the models described above can be
   represented by the following dimensionless linear flow, which, in Laplace space, can be
   determined by:
                                               8

   WO 2015/102632                                                                 PCT/US2014/010036
                 1    __27s
   [00301          -=        2r      COTH(-2        sf(S)YDe)
               q(s)          sf(s)
   [0031]      where q(s) is a dimensionless flow rate in Laplace space (alternatively, q(s) can
   be represented as qDL(S) or DL wherein "DL" stands for dimensionless and the bar over
   qDL  indicates Laplace space), f(s) is the fracture function, and YDe is the dimensionless
 5 reservoir half-width (rectangular geometry). The fracture function can be given in such
   an embodiment as:
   [0032]      fi(s) =           3A((oi    + Fi)
   [0033]      where k is a dimensionless interporosity parameter and o is the dimensionless
   storativity ratio. These parameters, in turn, can be represented in this embodiment as:
10 [0034]         g=          V
                            OtVt
   [00351      Ai=          12
                            LF
                                  kF
                                  kF
                                       Acw
   [0036]      where og is the indexed, dimensionless storativity ratio, Ac                is the cross
   sectional area to flow (defined below) and A is the indexed, dimensionless interporosity
   flow. The initial conditions can be given as:
15 [00371      Acw = 2 h xe, where h is the reservoir thickness and            Xe  is the lateral length,
   0i = Porosity fraction of the respective media and
   [00381              ((o' = 1, AO = 3, FN = 0, where N is the number of porosity, i.e., dual
   porosity N   =  2, triple porosity N      = 3, quad porosity N = 4, etc.
   [0039]      In a model according to this embodiment, the geometry of the well can be
20 described as:
   [0040]      Fi= L'
                       3s
                               sf,   1 (s)  TANH     (Vsfi+ 1(s))   for a pseudo steady state model
   and
   [0041]      Fi= "for                  a transient flow (unsteady state) model.
                     3+sf jn(s)
   [0042]      Returning now to FIG. 1, in block 102, a first model can be selected, such as,
25 for example, a dimensionless flow triple porosity model as described above. In such an
   embodiment, which is but one of many, the number of fractures n in the model can be
   two. This model can be used to evaluate well performance according to one or more
   embodiments of the present disclosure.                It will be appreciated that in at least one
                                                      9

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   embodiment of the present disclosure, different models can be tested against each other,
   for example, to determine which model(s) provides the most accurate results for a
   particular well, which can be any well.
   [0043]      One or more computational models according to Applicants' disclosure can be
 5 computer implemented.         The computational models can be created in any suitable
   software programing language, such as C, C++, Java, FORTRAN, or one or more other
   languages, such as C#, F#, J#, Javascript, Python, or another language, separately or in
   combination, in whole or in part.         In at least one embodiment, for example, a
   computational model can be implemented in MATLAB , which can be described as a
10 numerical computing environment or programming language and which will be familiar
   to one or more of those with experience in the relevant art.
   [0044]      In block 103, one or more parameters can be changed, for example, if
   necessary or desired to obtain a close, closer or other different solution.           In one
   embodiment, a chosen model can be used to determine a flow rate. The model can be
15 initially run using a set of parameters with initial values, which can be input to the model
   through one or more entry boxes 212 in a GUI (see, e.g., FIG. 2). The initial values can
   be chosen by the user based on experience, or preferably, with known information from
   similar wells in the area (or another source appropriate for an application at hand). The
   initial parameters can include estimates of the permeabilities kf and kF, the fracture length
20 LF   and/or the cross-sectional area to flow Acw.      From these values, k and o can be
   calculated, such as according to the equations described above. In block 104, the user, if
   desired, can weigh data points. Normally, relatively early production data can tend to be
   noisy and inaccurate. Therefore, relatively recent production information can be more
   helpful or accurate when forecasting the future production of a well. Block 104 can allow
25 a user to assign a weight to one or more data points, which can, for example, at least help
   compensate for data that may be less reliable or important than other data (e.g., early data
   versus more recent data, etc.). FIG. 5 is a graphical user interface providing exemplary
   history matching multi-porosity modeling data according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure.    FIG. 6 is another graphical user interface providing exemplary history
30 matching multi-porosity modeling data according to an embodiment of the present
   disclosure. In the exemplary GUI 500 embodiment shown in FIG. 5, a group of historical
   data points can be selected in a selection box 501, which can be sized by moving a mouse
   or other input device to select only a group of points that appear to be inconsistent with
                                              10

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   the trend of other data points from a well.        These points can reflect noisy or poor
   measurements, for instance, and using a pop-up box 502, for example, a well engineer can
   reduce the weight given to such points during use by a model. A model can be instructed
   to weigh one or more points according to its assigned weight, such as by way of a weight
 5 button 503 being activated (or deactivated, if desired).
   [0045]     After a model is run (or otherwise) using initial parameters and any weighting
   of data, if applicable, an automatic history match can performed in block 105.       Model
   flow rates can be computed and compared to the flow rates determined from historical
   data and an error rate can be calculated. History matching can be performed by
10 techniques familiar to those skilled in the art, such as by nonlinear regression. In one or
   more embodiments of the present disclosure, an optimization function in MATLAB can
   be used to iteratively find a solution to the dimensionless rate model in Laplace space as
   described above. Other algorithms for performing nonlinear regression also can be used,
   as a matter of preference. Suitable nonlinear algorithms are known to those of skill in the
15 art and can be implemented in, for example, C, C++, MATLAB, FORTRAN, or any other
   suitable computer language. In at least one embodiment, the iterations that can required
   to determine solutions for a computational model to determine the value of the parameters
   can be performed according to MATLAB's nonlinear regression function, "lsqnonlin."
   [0046]     At the end of a regression, a history matched solution determined in block 105
20 can be displayed to a user for analysis. For example, as shown on the left hand side of the
   exemplary GUI 600 of FIG. 6, an embodiment can depict a display of a history matched
   model. A historical flow rate can be shown, such as by individual data points in a chart
   601. A dimensionless model flow rate can be depicted in a curve 602. Parameters for kf
   and kF calculated by a model can be shown in a pop-up window 603. An output of the
25 1sqnonlin nonlinear regression algorithm can be shown in a window as well, such as
   window 603.       The actual values for the permeabilities, fracture lengths, and other
   parameters can be determined by the model through an iterative history matching process
   according to embodiments of the present disclosure. These values can then be used by a
   user to evaluate and predict the future production of a well.
30 [0047]     With continuing reference to the Figures, and specific reference to FIG. 1, in
   block 106, a determination can be made regarding whether additional models are to be
   evaluated.   This can allow a well engineer to determine whether to adjust the parameters
   and re-run a previous computational model or whether to select a different model
                                               11

   WO 2015/102632                                                           PCT/US2014/010036
   altogether. At block 106, results from a history match performed in block 105 can be
   compared against an acceptable error, which can be based, for example, on a difference
   between the actual and modeled production rates. The cumulative production of fluids,
   such as oil, gas, oil and water, oil and gas, or oil and water and gas, for both an actual and
 5 a computational model can be compared with the expectation that the error will be less
   than an amount satisfactory to the requirements set by a user, which can be any
   percentage of error.
   [0048]     In at least one embodiment, error can be calculated as a root-mean-squared rate
   according to the formula Error(x)     = ((Qmodel(x) - Qactual(x)) * weight(x)), where x is
10 the value of a parameter, Qmodel(x) is the value of the parameter iteratively calculated by
   a computational model, Qactual(x) is the actual value of the parameter as measured in, or
   derived from, the historical data, and weight(x) is the influence of a data point on the
   error which affects the history match. An initial or default weight value for all data points
   can be 1 until changed by a user, although this need not be the case and each initial
15 weight can be any value, whether the same as or different from one or more other weight
   values.    A user can set a desired range of acceptable error as a matter of design
   preference.
   [0049]     In at least one embodiment, if a model flow rate falls outside a range of
   acceptable error, then the work flow can proceed back to block 102. If the well engineer
20 or other user elects to re-run a then-current model, then flow can proceed to block 103
   and then block 104 where the well engineer can adjust and/or re-weigh one or more
   parameters. A computational model can then compute the history match in block 105.
   This process can be repeated until a model flow rate matches a historical flow rate to
   within an acceptable error, or until a number of allowable iterations has been reached.
25 The model selection can be defined by a user, for example, in MATLAB or other source
   code. At block 106, a well engineer can choose to compare one or more models, such as
   dual, triple, and/or quad porosity models, against one another to see which model(s)
   provide the best results for a subject well. Flow can proceed back to block 102, where a
   different model can be chosen by a suitable entry or input to a computer, for example, a
30 selection box or a command window on one or more GUI screens. The actions described
   in blocks 103-105 can be repeated for one or more models. In block 106, after all models
   which a well engineer has selected for analysis have been determined through one or
                                               12

   WO 2015/102632                                                          PCT/US2014/010036
   more of the actions described with respect to blocks 103-105, flow can proceed to block
   107 for selecting a best model.
   [0050]      Referring still to FIG. 1, in block 107, a best model can be selected, such as by
   a user, system or combination thereof. One or more models can be compared using one
 5 or more statistical tools to select a model, for example, a model that most accurately
   matches the actual historical production data. Models can be compared using the Akaike
   Information Criteria, or "AIC" value. The AIC compares a model's residual sum of
   squares to the model's complexity (number of variables). A model with the lowest AIC
   value can have the highest relative probability of minimizing information loss and the
10 lowest probability of overfitting or having too many parameters.
   [0051]      In such an embodiment, the AIC parameter can be calculated using the
   following formula:
   [00521     AIC = n1n SSR) + 2K +             2K(K+1)
                               kn                n-K-1
   [0053]     where n is the number of data points, SSR is the sum of squared residual, and
15 K is the number of parameters used in the model (i.e., Km, Kf, KF, etc.).
   [0054]      FIG. 7 is a graphical user interface illustrating an exemplary model comparison
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. FIG. 7 shows the results of an
   exemplary AIC calculation. Here, dual, triple, and quad porosity models were compared.
   It is apparent that in this example embodiment, which is but one of many, the best model
20 for this particular well would be the triple-porosity model because the probability of that
   model being correct was found to be 79.7% (i.e., a higher probability than those for the
   remaining models).
   [0055]      In another embodiment, the models can be compared using an F-test, which
   can be calculated according to the following formula:
25 [0056]
                                       SSR1-SSR2             n-p2
                                  F =                    x
                                             SSR2           p2-pl
   [0057]     where n is the number of data points, SSR1 is the sum of squared residual for
   the first model, SSR2 is the sum of squared residual for the second model, pl is the
   number of parameters in the first model, and p2 is the number of parameters in the second
   model.     FIG. 8 is a graphical user interface illustrating another exemplary model
30 comparison according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.           The results of an
                                                13

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   exemplary F-test, i.e., values of F from the equation above using an exemplary set of
   parameters for illustrative purposes, are shown in FIG. 8.          Again, in this example
   embodiment, which is but one of many, for the particular data related to the exemplary
   well analyzed, the triple porosity is shown to be superior to either the dual or quad
 5 porosity models. It should be noted that the F-Test is a comparison between two nested
   models to determine if the model with more parameters yields a significantly lower error.
   Models with more parameters can result in a better fit to the actual data, but can add
   additional complexity to the task of resolving a unique solution.         The P-value is a
   probability measure of the sum of squares over the degrees of freedom to determine the
10 significance of one model compared to the other.
   [0058]      Those of skill in the art having the benefits of the present disclosure will
   appreciate that other methods of comparing models can be used. For example, in yet
   another embodiment of the present disclosure, two or more models can be compared
   using Baysian Information Criteria ("BIC").       In one or more embodiments, a well
15 engineer can visually display one or more model comparisons, in addition, or as an
   alternative, to one or more statistical comparisons. FIG. 9A is a graphical user interface
   illustrating an exemplary comparison of models with production data according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure. FIG. 9B is a graphical user interface illustrating
   another exemplary comparison of models with production data according to an
20 embodiment of the present disclosure. FIGS. 9A, 9B show embodiments of the present
   disclosure depicting a comparison of three exemplary models (e.g., those described herein
   for illustrative purposes) with the corresponding historical production data by way of a
   graphical display. Differences in the models can be observed, for example, in the slope of
   the data as well as the accuracy of the history match. Visually inspecting the output of
25 the models can be helpful in validating the overall accuracy of the output as each model
   can use the same input that might have been weighted for various reasons. Additionally
   the use of a LogLog plot can help visualize the slopes of actual and modeled data and can
   help determine when in time each flow regime occurred.
   [0059]      In block 108, a non-unique solution sensitivity analysis can be performed. The
30 non-linear regression used in history matching in block 105 can yield non-unique
   solutions.     Non-unique solutions can be problematic because different parameter
   combinations can result in different solutions that satisfactorily match the historical data,
   but yield different values for the iteratively computed parameters in a model, such as
                                              14

   WO 2015/102632                                                          PCT/US2014/010036
   matrix permeability, main hydraulic fracture permeability, porosity and so forth. Because
   different values for these parameters can result in different predictions for an actual well
   production, it can be helpful to analyze results to find unique solutions or clear trends
   between the parameters that can allow at least some confidence that the computed
 5 parameters match the actual formation properties. At block 108, a non-unique solution
   that can be found in a well production analysis can be the inverse relationship between a
   hydraulic fracture's length and permeability.        This relationship can be observed, for
   example, in a dimensionless fracture conductivity equation and a skin factor equation for
   a hydraulic fracture. In at least one embodiment of the present disclosure, the parameters
10 for a particular model can be varied within a range (which can be any range) and the
   resulting distributions can be used to determine the sensitivity of the model.
   [0060]     FIG. 10 is a graphical user interface illustrating an exemplary statistical
   distribution according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.        FIG. 10 shows an
   initial parameter distribution prepared according to an embodiment of the present
15 disclosure for an exemplary set of dual, triple, and quad porosity models using a
   dimensionless flow rate determined according to a computational model as described
   herein.   Uniform random sampling of one or more initial parameters can be used to
   determine aspects of the model. One or more parameters can be varied within a range,
   such as a range sufficient to include any values that are plausible based on, for example,
20 area knowledge and experience.         A set of initial values can be chosen based on any
   available information that a user may have regarding the corresponding variable.          For
   example, a model can benefit from (i.e., by becoming more accurate or more likely to be
   accurate) a set of initial values for a variable chosen from as narrow of a range as possible
   for that value. Also, even this set can be chosen from a different distribution, such as
25 Gaussian, Poisson, etc., if any a priori information is available about the corresponding
   variable. This inverse modeling problem can be non-linear and it can generate multiple
   local minima solutions. Covering the range of all possible solutions as initial parameters
   can allow a sensitivity analysis to identify most or all of the local minima, which can
   quantify an extent of any non-unique solutions. Without using a uniform random
30 sampling on the initial parameters it can be possible that some local minima will never be
   detected.    FIG. 10 is an exemplary Bi-Plot or Matrix Plot of 2D Plots showing
   relationships of each variable to all other variables in the embodiment (which is but one
   of many). Each row header in this example identifies the variable for the Y-Axis along
                                                15

   WO 2015/102632                                                          PCT/US2014/010036
   the corresponding row; similarly, each column header identifies the variable for the X
   Axis along the corresponding column.        The plots along the diagonal show an initial
   histogram (e.g., a graph of a frequency distribution in which rectangles with bases on the
   horizontal axis are given widths equal to class intervals and heights equal to
 5 corresponding frequencies) for the variable corresponding to the respective row-column
   intersections.   As shown in FIG. 10 for illustrative purposes, the histograms (and the
   intervals or interlogs in the remaining graphs) can illustrate whether the initial parameters
   for a particular application were (or were not) selected with uniform probability. In the
   exemplary embodiment of FIG. 10, which is but one of many, five variables were used,
10 namely, kF (main (or hydraulic) fracture permeability), kf (natural fracture permeability),
   km (reservoir (or matrix) permeability), Lf (distance between natural fractures) and ye
   (main (or hydraulic) fracture half-length), but other variables and numbers of variables
   (which can be any number) can be used in accordance with a particular application. In
   this example, two hundred initial values were selected for each variable out of a range of
15 possible values for that variable, although this need not be the case and, alternatively, any
   number of initial values can be used, such as, 1, 5, 20, 50, 100, 300, 400 .      . . n values,
   such as up to 5000 or more values, including any number there between (including whole
   numbers and any fractional portions of any of them). In at least one embodiment, it can
   be advantageous to use between about 100 and about 300 values for each variable,
20 although this need not be the case.         The data can be displayed in a log-normal
   distribution, but need not be, and can alternatively be illustrated or otherwise represented
   in one or more other distributions, such as a Gaussian or other elliptical distribution, a
   circular distribution or, as another example, a Pareto distribution.        In at least one
   embodiment, a model according to the disclosure can be adapted to analyze a set of initial
25 values and to determine for one or more variables a best match to actual production data.
   In other words, a model can at least partially narrow a list of available choices for the
   value of one or more variables within a range of possibilities. In this manner, a model
   can identify one or more values that may be more probable than one or more other values
   to be accurate for a particular application, which can, but need not, include identifying a
30 trend. Such information can be displayed to a user, for example, by way of a GUI or
   other interface, such as the one shown in FIG. 11.
   [0061]      FIG. 11 is a graphical user interface illustrating another exemplary statistical
   distribution according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.         FIG. 11 shows a
                                              16

   WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
   matrix plot for the exemplary data and parameters discussed above after a sensitivity
   analysis or history match. A matrix plot can include one or more plots (e.g., 2D images)
   or subplots for identifying one or more relatively probable values for one or more
   parameters. Along a diagonal of a matrix plot can be a subplot for each parameter, such
 5 as a histogram which can indicate the frequency of one or more values for a parameter.
   The histogram for each parameter and/or the remaining individual subplots can
   demonstrate the local minima and the probabilities for a unique solution along with the
   relationship each parameter has to other parameters. Because a triple porosity model is
   underdetermined, the solution to the inverse problem is not unique. This problem can be
10 avoided, for example, by holding at least one parameter constant.          With continuing
   reference to FIG. 11, subplot A, for example, can indicate to a user that, in the example
   embodiment described herein for purposes of explanation and illustration, a most likely
   value for KF can be approximately 75 (or .075 using the exemplary multiple indicated; the
   multiplier hereinafter will be ignored for simplicity). As another example, subplot B can
15 indicate to a user that, in the example embodiment described herein, a most likely value
   for Kf can be within the range of 0-50. As yet another example, subplot C can indicate to
   a user that, in the example embodiment described herein, more information can be needed
   to determine a unique solution for a value of Lf. Further, the two curves of subplot C can
   indicate to a user that, in the example embodiment described herein, there can likely be
20 two solutions for a value of Lf; under such circumstances, a user can determine which one
   is best for a particular application based on, for example, other information available to
   the user about the project at hand, experience or knowledge in the field, etc. For instance,
   one or more of a plurality of unique solutions may be inapplicable in light of certain
   circumstances.
25 [0062]     A system architecture in or with which embodiments of the present disclosure
   can be implemented can include any computer system or architecture capable of
   processing or running one or more embodiments of the models disclosed herein.            For
   example, one or more of the models disclosed herein can compute on an x86, x64 or
   ARM based processor running on one of many available operating systems (e.g., MAC,
30 WINDOWS, ANDROID, LINUX, etc.), and can do so regardless of whether a computer
   system available to a user includes a graphics processor for visualization. For example, in
   the event available computer hardware does not include a graphics processor, a command
   console (e.g., MSDOS, LINUX, etc.) can be used to setup, run and/or export/view one or
                                              17

   WO 2015/102632                                                        PCT/US2014/010036
   more model outputs, such as by way of texts, characters, strings or other applicable
   designations.
   [0063]      A computer implemented method can include selecting a first flow rate model
   for a well, the first flow rate model having at least one input parameter, providing data to
 5 the first flow rate model, such as reservoir data and production history data, computing
   one or more solutions to the first flow rate model, which can include using an initial value
   for a input parameter, comparing a solution to production history data, adjusting an input
   parameter, computing a solution to the first flow rate model using one or more adjusted
   input parameters, selecting a second flow rate model for a well, the second flow rate
10 model having at least one input parameter, providing reservoir data to the second flow
   rate model, providing production history data to the second flow rate model, computing
   one or more solutions to the second flow rate model, which can including using one or
   more input parameters, comparing a solution to production history data, adjusting an
   input parameter, computing a solution to the second flow rate model using one or more
15 adjusted input parameters, comparing a solution from the first model with a solution from
   the second model, and determining which model most accurately tracks the production
   history data.
   [0064]      A first flow rate model can include a multi-porosity dimensionless flow rate
   model, which can include a dimensionless flow rate model of the form
                1   __27s
20 [00651       1   -     2s    COTH(-2 sf(S)YDe)
               q(s)      dsf(s)
   [0066]      An input parameter can represent reservoir data and can include one or more
   values representing one or more of formation matrix permeability, hydraulic fracture
   permeability, fracture length, and a combination thereof.           A method can include
   determining whether a model solution that most accurately tracks the production history
25 is unique, which can include varying an input parameter over a range of values and
   determining a plurality of model solutions.       Production history data can include data
   representing a volume of oil, water, and/or gas produced by a well over a time period. A
   method can include iteratively adjusting an input parameter and computing a solution to a
   flow rate model until a solution is within an error criteria, and can include statistically
30 comparing a solution from a first model with a solution from a second model, which can
   include determining a value based on one or more of the Akaike information criteria, the
   F-Value, the Baysian information criteria, and a combination thereof.
                                               18

   WO 2015/102632                                                        PCT/US2014/010036
   [0067]     A computer readable medium can have instructions stored thereon that, when
   executed by a processor, can cause the processor to perform a method that can include
   selecting a first flow rate model for a well, the first flow rate model having at least one
   input parameter, providing data to the first flow rate model, such as reservoir data and
 5 production history data, computing one or more solutions to the first flow rate model,
   which can include using an initial value for a input parameter, comparing a solution to
   production history data, adjusting an input parameter, computing a solution to the first
   flow rate model using one or more adjusted input parameters, selecting a second flow rate
   model for a well, the second flow rate model having at least one input parameter,
10 providing reservoir data to the second flow rate model, providing production history data
   to the second flow rate model, computing one or more solutions to the second flow rate
   model, which can including using one or more input parameters, comparing a solution to
   production history data, adjusting an input parameter, computing a solution to the second
   flow rate model using one or more adjusted input parameters, comparing a solution from
15 the first model with a solution from the second model, and determining which model
   most accurately tracks the production history data.
   [0068]     In a computer readable medium can have instructions stored thereon, a first
   flow rate model can include a multi-porosity dimensionless flow rate model, which can
   include a dimensionless flow rate model of the form
                1   __27s
20 [0069]       -   -     2s    COTH(-2 sf(S)YDe)
              q(s)       dsf(s)
   [0070]     An input parameter can represent reservoir data and can include one or more
   values representing one or more of formation matrix permeability, hydraulic fracture
   permeability, fracture length, and a combination thereof.          A method can include
   determining whether a model solution that most accurately tracks the production history
25 is unique, which can include varying an input parameter over a range of values and
   determining a plurality of model solutions. Production history data can include data
   representing a volume of oil, water, and/or gas produced by a well over a time period. A
   method can include iteratively adjusting an input parameter and computing a solution to a
   flow rate model until a solution is within an error criteria, and can include statistically
30 comparing a solution from a first model with a solution from a second model, which can
   include determining a value based on one or more of the Akaike information criteria, the
   F-Value, the Baysian information criteria, and a combination thereof.
                                             19

  WO 2015/102632                                                         PCT/US2014/010036
  [0071]     While the disclosed embodiments have been described with reference to one or
  more particular implementations, those skilled in the art will recognize that many changes
  may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the description.
  Accordingly, each of these embodiments and obvious variations thereof is contemplated
5 as falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed invention, which is set forth in the
  following claims.
                                            20

   WO 2015/102632                                                             PCT/US2014/010036
                                              CLAIMS
            What is claimed is:
   1.       A computer implemented method, comprising:
            selecting a first flow rate model for a well, the first flow rate model having at least
 5 one input parameter;
            providing reservoir data to the first flow rate model;
            providing production history data to the first flow rate model;
            computing a solution to the first flow rate model using an initial value for the
   input parameter;
10          comparing the solution to the production history data;
            adjusting the input parameter and computing the solution to the first flow rate
   model using the adjusted input parameter;
            selecting a second flow rate model for a well, the second flow rate model having
   at least one input parameter;
15          providing reservoir data to the second flow rate model;
            providing production history data to the second flow rate model;
            computing a solution to the second flow rate model using the input parameter;
            comparing the solution to the production history data;
            adjusting the input parameter and computing the solution to the second flow rate
20 model using the adjusted input parameter; and
            comparing the solution from the first model with the solution from the second
   model to determine which model most accurately tracks the production history data.
   2.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the first flow rate model comprises a
25 multi-porosity dimensionless flow rate model.
   3.       The method according to claim 2, wherein the first flow rate model is a
                                                     1       2rs
   dimensionless flow rate model of the form:      -    =          COTH(-2 sf(S)YDe)
                                                   q(s)    dsf(s)
   4.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the input parameter represents reservoir
   data and comprises a value representing at least one of formation matrix permeability,
30 hydraulic fracture permeability, and fracture length.
                                                21

   WO 2015/102632                                                             PCT/US2014/010036
   5.       The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining whether the
   model solution that most accurately tracks the production history is unique.
   6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein determining whether the model
   solution that most accurately tracks the production history is unique further comprises
 5 varying the input parameter over a range of values and determining a plurality of model
   solutions.
   7.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the production history data comprises
   data representing the volume of oil, water, and gas produced by the well over a time
   period.
10 8.       The method according to claim 1, wherein adjusting the input parameter and
   computing the solution to the first flow rate model using the adjusted input parameter
   further comprises iteratively adjusting the input parameter and computing the solution to
   the first flow rate model until the solution is within an error criteria.
   9.       The method according to claim 1, wherein comparing the solution from the first
15 model with the solution from the second model to determine which model most
   accurately tracks the production history data comprises statistically comparing the
   solution from the first model with the solution from the second model.
   10.      The method according to claim 9, further comprising wherein comparing the
   solution from the first model with the solution from the second model includes
20 determining a value based on at least one of the Akaike information criteria, the F-Value,
   and the Baysian information criteria.
   11.      A computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, when
   executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method comprising:
            selecting a first flow rate model for a well, the first flow rate model having at least
25 one input parameter;
            providing reservoir data to the first flow rate model;
            providing production history data to the first flow rate model;
            computing a solution to the first flow rate model using an initial value for the
   input parameter;
                                                22

   WO 2015/102632                                                        PCT/US2014/010036
            comparing the solution to the production history data;
            adjusting the input parameter and computing the solution to the first flow rate
   model using the adjusted input parameter;
            selecting a second flow rate model for a well, the second flow rate model having
 5 at least one input parameter;
            providing reservoir data to the second flow rate model;
            providing production history data to the second flow rate model;
            computing a solution to the second flow rate model using the input parameter;
            comparing the solution to the production history data;
10          adjusting the input parameter and computing the solution to the second flow rate
   model using the adjusted input parameter;
            comparing the solution from the first model with the solution from the second
   model to determine which model most accurately tracks the production history data.
   12.      The computer readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the first flow rate
15 model comprises a multi-porosity dimensionless flow rate model.
   13.      The computer readable medium according to claim 12, wherein the first flow rate
   model         is   a     dimensionless      flow     rate    model     of     the    form:
     1
   q (s)
        I = 7==COTH
          _2wrs
                sf(s)
                            (-2    sf(s)yDe).
   14.      The computer readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the input
20 parameter represents reservoir data and comprises a value representing at least one of
   formation matrix permeability, hydraulic fracture permeability and fracture length.
   15.      The computer readable medium according to claim 11, further comprising
   determining whether the model solution that most accurately tracks the production history
   is unique.
25 16.      The computer readable medium according to claim 15, wherein determining
   whether the model solution that most accurately tracks the production history is unique
   further comprises varying the input parameter over a range of values and determining a
   plurality of model solutions.
                                               23

   WO 2015/102632                                                           PCT/US2014/010036
   17.      The computer readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the production
   history data comprises data representing the volume of oil, water, and gas produced by
   the well over a time period.
   18.      The computer readable medium according to claim 11, wherein adjusting the input
 5 parameter and computing the solution to the first flow rate model using the adjusted input
   parameter further comprises iteratively adjusting the input parameter and computing the
   solution to the first flow rate model until the solution is within an error criteria.
   19.      The computer readable medium according to claim 11, wherein comparing the
   solution from the first model with the solution from the second model to determine which
10 model most accurately tracks the production history data comprises statistically
   comparing the solution from the first model with the solution from the second model.
   20.      The computer readable medium according to claim 19, further comprising
   wherein comparing the solution from the first model with the solution from the second
   model includes determining a value based on at least one of the Akaike information
15 criteria, the F-Value and the Baysian information criteria.
                                               24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
