                                           22
                                    ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to a perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system.
The system includes an apparatus for evaluating or improving perceptual
cognitive abilities of a subject during a training sequence. The system also has
a training sequence controller for adding in at least a part of the training
sequence at least one of (a) a first motor load add-on to the subject and (b) a
second motor load add-on to the subject, the second motor load being heavier
than the first motor load. A variant of the system has a user interface for allowing
the subject to change at least one parameter of the training sequence. Methods
for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject are also
disclosed.

                                            1
  PERCEPTUAL-COGNITIVE-MOTOR LEARNING SYSTEM AND
                                       METHOD
[0001]     The present application is a divisional application of AU 2013224590,
the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                   TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     The present disclosure relates to the field of perceptual-cognitive
training. More specifically, the present disclosure relates to a perceptual
cognitive-motor learning system and method.
                                     BACKGROUND
[0003]     In our daily activities, we constantly interact with our environment. This
environment is dynamic and requires the integration of various objects, motions,
speeds, locations, etc. As a result, the brain's executive functions are constantly
managing myriads of stimuli. Risk of information overload is present in many
real-life situations. Ability to deal quickly with unpredictability of stimuli in time
sensitive situations is a real-life need in the office, in sports, in school, and in
crisis management situations.
[0004]     Attention and focus applied to strategic inputs can make a difference
between winning and losing in sports activities, in learning new skills, in facing
dangerous situations, and leading a successful professional career. Attention
and focus, especially in stressful situations, enable filtering and prioritizing of
data while disregarding irrelevant distractors.
[0005]     In the case of elderly people or persons with certain disabilities, deficits
in attention and focus can cause serious problems in routine activities. For
instance, travelling through a crowd while avoiding collisions and maintaining
orientation and good motor control requires fluent and continuous perceptual
cognitive processing. It is well documented that effects of healthy aging can
influence perceptual cognitive processes.

                                          2
[0006]     Loss of attention and impaired impulse control can be a severe problem
for children with attention deficit disorder, with or without hyperactivity, and for
autistic children.
[0007]     The need to improve attention and focus is therefore present in a broad
range of individuals. This need is especially present in persons having learning
disabilities or with degrading cognitive functions. This need is also present in
elite athletes who need to "read the game" while following the trajectory of a ball,
and in members of many professions who need deal with masses of information.
[0008]     Therefore, there is a need for solutions that help improve cognitive
functions, whether for children having learning disabilities, aging persons,
athletes or professionals operating in stressful environments.
                                     SUMMARY
[0009]     According to the present disclosure, there is provided a perceptual
cognitive-motor learning system. In at least one embodiment the system
comprises an apparatus for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive
abilities of a subject during successive tests. In an embodiment, the system also
comprises at least one of (a) means for adding in at least a part of the tests a
low-level motor load add-on to the subject causing no efferent signal from the
subject's brain and (b) means for merging in at least one of the tests a specific
motor demand to the subject that is adapted to a given real-life situation.
[0010]     According to the present disclosure, there is also an embodiment
providing a perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system. In an embodiment, the
system comprises an apparatus for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive
abilities of a subject during a training sequence. The embodiment may also
comprise a training sequence controller for adding in at least a part of the training
sequence at least one of (a) a first motor load add-on to the subject and (b) a
second motor load add-on to the subject, the second motor load being heavier
than the first motor load.
[0011]     According to the present disclosure, there is also an embodiment
providing a perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system. The embodiment may

                                           3
comprise an apparatus for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities
of a subject during successive tests. The embodiment may also comprise means
for allowing the subject to change at least one parameter of the tests performed
by means of the apparatus.
[0012]     In an embodiment, the present disclosure also relates to a perceptual
cognitive-motor learning system. The system comprises an apparatus for
evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject during a
training sequence. The system also comprises a user interface for allowing the
subject to change at least one parameter of the training sequence.
[0013]     In an embodiment, the present disclosure also relates to a perceptual
cognitive-motor learning system. The system comprises a multidimensional
display configured to display virtual objects moving in a given multidimensional
environment during a plurality of tests of a training sequence, a user interface
configured to collect, for each test, a response from the subject, the response
for a given test including an identification of a target subset of the virtual objects
tracked by the subject during the given test and a computer configured to control
the display of virtual objects on the multidimensional display, implement a
training sequence controller for controlling the training sequence using a
staircase variation of a speed of movement of the virtual objects, and determine
an evolution of the perceptual-cognitive abilities of the subject considering the
responses from the subject and considering (a) a first motor load being added
on to the subject during at least one test of one part of the training sequence,
the first motor load causing no efferent signal from the subject's brain and (b) a
second motor load being added on to the subject during at least one test of
another part of the training sequence, the second motor load being heavier than
the first motor load, wherein the first and second motor loads are used to adapt
the training sequence to a given condition and/or activity of the subject to allow
the system to better improve the perceptual-cognitive abilities of the subject
related to said subject's condition and/or activity.
[0014]     In an embodiment, the present disclosure further relates to a method
for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject. The

                                            4
subject is submitted to a training sequence. At least one of (a) a first motor load
add-on to the subject and (b) a second motor load add-on to the subject is added
in at least a part of the training sequence, the second motor load being heavier
than the first motor load.
[0015]     In an embodiment, the present disclosure also relates to a method for
evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject. The subject is
submitted to a training sequence. A command to change at least one parameter
of the training sequence is received from the subject.
[0016]     The foregoing and other features will become more apparent upon
reading of the following non-restrictive description of illustrative embodiments
thereof, given by way of example only with reference to the accompanying
drawings.
                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]     Embodiments of the disclosure will be described by way of example
only with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0018]     Figure 1 is a graph showing learning curves of athletes subjected to a
demanding training regime;
[0019]     Figure 2 is a graph showing learning curves of athletes subjected to a
demanding training regime when using a perceptual-cognitive-motor system;
[0020]     Figure 3 (Prior Art) is a perspective view of an example of full immersive
virtual environment;
[0021]     Figure 4 is a schematic diagram illustrating a training self-paced mode;
[0022]     Figure 5 is a schematic diagram illustrating an assessment self-paced
mode incorporating the training self-paced mode of Figure 4 and an additional
use of a staircase (up and down) variation of speeds; and
[0023]     Figure 6 is a schematic diagram illustrating the use of a number of
measures to determine speed thresholds.

                                        5
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0024]    Like numerals represent like features on the various drawings.
[0025]    Various aspects of the present disclosure generally address one or
more of the problems of improving cognitive functions.
[0026]    The following description discloses the NeuroTracker "Perceptual
Cognitive-Motor" Learning System (NT-LS). More specifically, the two (2)
following features of the NT-LS are described:
 1 - A NeuroTracker (NT) motor add-on system where motor add-ons are made
under very specific conditions for optimized learning.
2 - A "SelfPaced" system and method for rapidly assessing individual thresholds.
 1 - The NT-Motor add-on system
[0027]    Sports performance (also true for common life situations like navigation
in crowds) involves the capacity to rapidly process complex movement over
large areas and in a three-dimensional (3D) environment, including sudden
changes in directions and collisions and at the same time attend to multiple key
elements in the scene, i.e. in the environment. Information from the scene is
integrated with specific motor demands in the sport or for real-life demands like
navigating in crowds. In other words, human beings perceive and understand
what is happening in their environment while at the same time interacting with it
physically, with specific actions. There is evidence for specialized visual brain
systems where some pathways are responsible for perception and some for
action. Although these specialized visual brain systems for perception and for
action comprise distinctive elements they are ultimately combined.
[0028]    It is also believed with evidence from science that the vision for
perception system is more complex and more recent on the evolutionary scale
than the vision for action system.
[0029]    The ultimate transfer and closure of the sensory-perceptual-cognitive
motor loop involves a way to combine all of the above abilities in training. It is
also desirable to isolate and consolidate these abilities and then combine them

                                           6
on training. The present disclosure proposes to, in certain embodiments, train
on the NT-LS to build this consolidation, as it involves the more complex visual
system and, once consolidated, close the visual-perceptual-cognitive-motor
loop with motor tasks integrated with the NT.
1a) - Evidence for requiring the consolidation process
[0030]     An initial study has demonstrated that, in certain embodiments, added
motor demand at the beginning of a demanding perceptual-cognitive training
regime can be detrimental to the acquisition phase. Figure 1 is a graph showing
learning curves of athletes subjected to a demanding training regime. The graph
demonstrates that added motor demand at the beginning of a demanding
perceptual-cognitive training regime can be detrimental to a subject's acquisition
phase. What was found from training of high-level professional athletes was that
if the players learned a task standing up from start, their levels of performance
were lower and their learning curves were shallower. To understand this further,
the initial study was followed with an experiment looking at the transferability of
training when carrying out consolidation first followed by adding motor load on
top of the training. What it is meant by transferability is that the benefit of learning
in one condition is maintained in another condition. The results of this study are
shown in Figure 2, which is a graph showing learning curves of athletes
subjected to a demanding training regime when using a perceptual-cognitive
motor system. This graph shows that, following consolidation when the subject
is sitting, very little loss in performance is observed when standing, and that
although there is an initial large drop in a condition of exercising, athletes quickly
regain their speed processing capacities and get back on the usual learning
curve of the "sitting down" position. The first 14 training sessions show the usual
progression of speed of processing ability when sitting down, followed by the
next six sessions with the athlete standing up, followed by the last six training
sessions with the athlete sitting on a BosuTM balance ball in a position that makes
it difficult to maintain balance. As can be observed from Figure 2, after
consolidation (sitting), there is very little loss in performance when standing,
which shows evidence of transfer. Although there is an initial large drop in the

                                           7
third condition (exercising; sitting on BosuTM ball) the athletes quickly regain their
speed processing capacities and get back on the usual learning curve of the
"sitting down" position.
 1b) - Closing the loop
[0031]     This section describes a method and system for closing of the visual
perceptual-cognitive-motor loop for optimal performance and combining of the
NT technology with an objective measure of visual-motor performance system.
A subject is submitted to a training sequence according to the following scheme:
         [ n, (CORE) ; n2 (CORE+MOTORa) ; n3 (CORE+MOTORb) ].
[0032]     The training sequence comprises n, repetitions of a core exercise,
followed by n2 repetitions of the core exercise performed in conjunction with a
first (usually light) motor demand, and followed by n3 repetitions of the core
exercise performed in conjunction with a second (usually heavier) motor
demand. Generally, the values of n1, n2 and n3 are non-negative integers.
[0033]     As a non-limitative example, the training can be performed using an
apparatus as described in PCT patent application No PCT/CA2009/001379 filed
on September 29, 2009 in the name of Faubert et al., and published on April 8,
2010 under No WO 2010/037222 Al (hereinafter "Faubert'222"), the full content
of which being herein incorporated by reference.
[0034]     The apparatus introduced in Faubert'222 can be used for evaluating or
improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject. The apparatus comprises a
display of virtual objects moving a given 3D environment during successive
tests. Figure 3 is a perspective view of an example of full immersive virtual
environment. More specifically, the display comprises a fully immersive virtual
environment (FIVE) room 101, for example a CAVETM Automatic Virtual
Environment, from Fakespace Systems, in which the subject is fully immersed
in the given 3D environment and the stimuli are presented. The fully immersive
virtual environment room 101 has a size of, for example, 8x8x8 feet and
comprises four (4) projection surfaces (three walls 102, 103 and 104 and a floor
 105). The display shows stereoscopic images on the four (4) projection surfaces

                                           8
(the three walls 102, 103 and 104 and floor 105) to form the given 3D
environment in which virtual objects are presented. The display comprises, for
that purpose, projectors 106, 107, 108 and 109 and associated planar reflectors
 110, 111, 112 and 113, respectively to project and display the images on the
four (4) projection surfaces (the three walls 102, 103 and 104 and floor 105)
under the control of a computer             114 acting as a display controller.
 Interconnections between the computer 114 and other elements of the FIVE
room 101 are not shown for simplicity purposes. The computer 114 may be
linked to the various projectors 106, 107, 108 and 109 and to other networked
elements using any well-known connection methods.
[0035]     The display of the apparatus for evaluating or improving perceptual
cognitive abilities of a subject also comprises a shutter visual implement, for
example under the form of liquid crystal shutter stereoscopic goggles (not
shown) from Stereographics, San Rafael, CA, to enable the subject's 3D
stereoscopic perception, more particularly to enable the subject to perceive in
3D the virtual object, the positions of the virtual objects and the 3D environment.
Stereoscopic images are rendered with a refresh rate of 48 Hz and the goggles
are shuttered at 96 Hz to deliver 48 images per second to the subject's right and
left eyes. The display further comprises a positional sensor, for example under
the form of a magnetic detector, for example a Flock of BirdsTM, from Ascension
technology corp., Burlington, VT, mounted to the goggles in order to track a
position of the subject's head. The computer 114 controls the display to correct
in real-time a visual perspective relative to the tracked subject's head position.
The display controller (for example a "Silicon graphics 540" computer) generates
the stimuli and records the subject's responses.
[0036]     An ophthalmologic chair 116 positioned substantially in a central
position of the FIVE room 101 is provided to sit the subject.
[0037]     The apparatus of Faubert'222 can therefore be used in support of a
method for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject. In
summary, this apparatus comprises a display of virtual objects moving in a given
3D environment during successive tests, with the subject in visual contact with

                                            9
the virtual objects moving in the 3D environment. The computer 114 controls the
projectors 106, 107, 108 and 109 to change a speed of movement of the virtual
objects in the 3D environment. During each test, the subject tracks a subset of
the moving virtual objects and, after the test, the subject identifies the tracked
objects. It should be kept in mind that the training can be performed using any
other suitable device.
[0038]     CORE represents a test comprising a 6-8 minutes testing sequence
using the apparatus as described in Faubert'222.
[0039]     CORE+MOTORa represents a test comprising a low-level simple
motor load add-on to the CORE test. This can be a standing up position but
could also be holding onto a rail or a treadmill with ice skates or roller skates.
This means that the CORE+MOTORa test is calibrated so that there is no
conscious efferent signal (brain command of movement) from the brain to move
limbs in a meaningful pattern such as running, skating or intercepting a ball.
[0040]     CORE+MOTORb           represents a test going one level higher, the
MOTORb load thus being heavier than the MOTORa                     load. During a
CORE+MOTORb test, the subject is asked to merge the CORE with a specific
motor demand that is adapted to a given real-life situation, for example a sport,
operation of a machine or of a vehicle, a hazardous situation, or any other similar
purpose. Non-limiting examples of MOTORb add-ons include a motor task such
as a catch or an interception in response to a simulated stimulus such as a ball
thrown for a pass, bouncing of a soccer ball, stopping of a puck, and the like.
Other non-limiting examples of added MOTORb elements include an involuntary
response, either physical or emotional (or both), to a potentially threatening
simulated visual stimulus such as an unpredicted target with a trajectory
potentially colliding with the face or other sensitive parts of the subject's body,
the visual stimulus possibly being accompanied with a sound. There is no a priori
limit to the type of situation that can be represented during the CORE+MOTORb
test.
[0041]     A training sequence controller, integrated in the computer 114 or in a
separate computer (not shown), controls the apparatus as described in

                                          10
Faubert'222 in order to perform the training sequence. Sensors may also be
connected to the training sequence controller for monitoring the movements of
the subject during each test, in particular movements related to MOTORa add
ons and MOTORb movement.
[0042]    According to an example of implementation taking into consideration
available, gathered scientific data, the following training sequence is performed
under the control of the training sequence controller:
         [n, (CORE) ; n2 (CORE+MOTORa) ; n 3 (CORE+MOTORb)].
[0043]    wherein:
[0044]    n, = 10 to 15 repetitions;
[0045]    n3 = 6 repetitions; and
[0046]    n3 = 6 repetitions.
[0047]     More specifically, the training sequence controller controls the
apparatus as described in Faubert'222 to perform, in sequence, a series of 10
to 15 CORE tests, a series of 6 CORE+MOTORa tests, and a series of 6
CORE+MOTORb tests. After each test, the computer 114 collects the responses
of the subject in relation to the identification of the tracked balls through a
response interface, for example a keyboard with a display of the computer 114,
for further analysis of these responses, for example an analysis as described in
the aforementioned Faubert'222, potentially in combination with an analysis of
the movements of the subject during the tests in case of CORE+MOTORa and
CORE+MOTORb tests to determine the evolution of the subject. Such analysis
of the training sequence can be limited to the tracing of graphs or can be much
more complex depending on the requirements of the intended application.
[0048]     Using the above example of implementation (n, = 10 to 15 repetitions,
n3  = 6 repetitions, and n3 = 6 repetitions), it is possible to increase motor skill
with a method based on scientific data and adapt it to any sport or rehabilitation
training. For instance, it is easy to imagine someone who suffered a stroke and
had some difficulty walking, to be gradually rehabilitated using such a method
where MOTORb becomes walking on a treadmill. The following are also some

                                         11
examples of MOTORb:
[0049]     Rugby: Catching a lateral pass;
[0050]     Hockey: Receiving a pass and shooting puck, or stopping a puck for a
goalie;
[0051]     Soccer: receiving an redirecting a ball;
[0052]     Etc.
2) "Self-Paced" System and Method
[0053]     The self-paced system and method address some issues by the users
(subjects) of the NT-LS system. These issues comprise:
[0054]     A technique for getting speed thresholds more rapidly than the usual
6-8 minutes CORE test in situations such as testing at combines (recruitment of
junior drafts), rapid throughput, etc.
[0055]     A technique to keep the subject active during the test even if the subject
lost tracking of the virtual objects (see the apparatus as described in
Faubert'222). The classic CORE test is set-up so that if the subject loses one or
more of the tracked objects, there was no chance of reset or recall during the
test that lasts 6-8 seconds. The subject waits until the end, gives the response
and starts again.
[0056]     The self-paced system and method resolves this issue by allowing the
subject to stay active and do several things on his own and online to the dynamic
visual scene. Also, there are two versions of the self-paced system and method,
the training mode and the assessment (measurement) mode although these two
versions are not mutually exclusive.
[0057]     Referring to Figure 4, which is a schematic diagram illustrating a
training self-paced mode, a typical CORE test works the following way. As
directed by the training sequence controller, the display of the apparatus as
described in Faubert'222 presents to the subject a number of virtual objects
(typically 8 spheres) as seen in block 31 of Figure 4. Then the training sequence
controller indexes a subset (usually 4 spheres representing the target objects)

                                           12
by changing color or flashing, etc. (block 32 in Figure 4). Then the objects return
to their original condition. The training sequence controller then starts movement
of the objects in the 3D environment as shown in block 33 of Figure 4. Once the
movement of the objects starts then the subject can use a user interface 39,
which is operatively connected to the computer 114, to make the following
adjustments:
[0058]     Training self-paced mode:         In this case the subject can issue
commands directed to the training sequence controller via the user interface 39
to perform the following actions:
[0059]     Managing the speed, i.e. make the virtual objects in the dynamic 3D
environment move faster or slower at will by pressing buttons or giving certain
commands, for example vocal commands to a remote module (not shown), or
by physical gesture detected by a motion capture device (not shown) for
example by moving hands up and down or spreading apart or closing together
the hands. The remote module or motion capture device is connected to the
computer 114 that incorporates the training sequence controller (blocks 34 and
36 of Figure 4).
[0060]     Allowing for a reset, recall or re-indexing of the target objects at any
time during tracking and for any desired length up to a certain limit (block 35 of
Figure 4).
[0061]     At any time during the test, the subject can indicate by depressing a
button of the remote module or through any other command, that a given speed
of the virtual objects is the correct tracking speed (block 37 of Figure 4). More
specifically, when the subject feels the speed is correct and he can maintain the
tracking of the target objects at that speed, the subject then presses a button of
the remote module and the selected speed is automatically received and
recorded by the computer 114. When this is done, the test is refreshed and a
new set of target objects is presented and the test is started again. This can be
repeated any number of times (block 38 of Figure 4). That is, one subject can
train for as long as desired by providing feedback commands to the self-paced
system. The subject can continue using the method without resetting or may

                                         13
have as many rests as desired.
[0062]      Depending on the type of adjustment made by the subject in the
training self-pace mode, the user interface 39 may comprise one or more
buttons, a microphone connected to a speech detector (not shown), a motion
capture device, a keyboard, a pedal board, or any other man-machine interface.
[0063]     Assessment self-paced mode: Figure 5 is a schematic diagram
illustrating an assessment self-paced mode incorporating the training self-paced
mode of Figure 4 and an additional use of a staircase (up and down) variation
of speeds. The assessment self-paced mode incorporates the operations of the
training self-paced mode (block 41 of Figure 5) except that it has the following
additional step (block 42 of Figure 5):
[0064]     When a pre-set number of speed adjustments has been terminated in
block 41, the training sequence controller automatically performs a preset
number of tests using a shortened staircase (up and down) variation of speeds
such as the one used for the CORE test and as described in the apparatus of
Faubert'222. This procedure ensures that the subjective speed adjustments
made by the subject truly correspond to speed threshold values as objectively
determined (block 42 of Figure 5).
[0065]     The    "self-paced"   system     and     method    have    the   following
characteristics:
     1) They can be very fast;
     2) They are very flexible for various training times;
     3) They permit the subject to stay in the "zone" of maximum trainability
        where stands the right level of difficulty for any subject at any given time;
         and
     4) It develops the subject's ability to recognize their own internal mental
         state and respond to it by making appropriate adjustments.
[0066]     The self-paced system and method not only assess speed thresholds
(block 43 of Figure 5) by calculating the given responses and the results of the

                                           14
staircase variation of speed (block 42 of Figure 5) when the assessment self
paced mode is used, but it also allows the computer 114 to perform a number of
measures, useful in determining the speed thresholds, while the subject is
participating such as:
    a) A number of test recalls (number of repetitions of the self-paced trials);
    b) A time of each recall (repetition rate of the self-paced trials); and
    c) Speed values during the self-paced trials.
[0067]    This is illustrated in Figure 6, which is a schematic diagram illustrating
the use of a number of measures to determine speed thresholds, and can be
used to develop response profiles and learning profiles for each subject.
[0068]    The efficiency of the self-paced assessment mode to determine
whether this mode can generate similar results as the CORE test for the initial
"consolidation" stage has been tested. During the test, the subjects used the
assessment self-paced mode (2 adjustments and 6 staircase trials) for the first
4 training sessions, followed by a regular CORE assessment measure on the
5th session followed by another 4 assessment self-paced sessions followed by
a CORE session as the 10th session etc. It was found that the 5th, 10th and
15th CORE session scores followed well with the self-paced score indicating
that the assessment self-paced mode can be used to obtain similar results but
with much shorter training times i.e. 3 minutes versus 6-8 minutes with the
CORE test.
[0069]    Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the description of the
perceptual-cognitive-motor system and method are illustrative only and are not
intended to be in any way limiting. Other embodiments will readily suggest
themselves to such persons with ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the
present disclosure. Furthermore, the disclosed perceptual-cognitive-motor
system and method may be customized to offer valuable solutions to existing
needs and problems of improving cognitive functions.
[0070]     In the interest of clarity, not all of the routine features of the
implementations of the perceptual-cognitive-motor system and method are

                                         15
shown and described. It will, of course, be appreciated that in the development
of any such actual implementation of the perceptual-cognitive-motor system and
method, numerous implementation-specific decisions may need to be made in
order to achieve the developer's specific goals, such as compliance with
application-, system-, and business-related constraints, and that these specific
goals will vary from one implementation to another and from one developer to
another. Moreover, it will be appreciated that a development effort might be
complex and time-consuming, but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking
of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the field of perceptual-cognitive
training having the benefit of the present disclosure.
[0071]    In accordance with the present disclosure, the components, process
steps, and/or data structures described herein may be implemented using
various types of operating systems, computing platforms, network devices,
computer programs, and/or general purpose machines. In addition, those of
ordinary skill in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose
nature, such as hardwired devices, field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs),
application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), or the like, may also be used.
Where a method comprising a series of process steps is implemented by a
computer or a machine and those process steps may be stored as a series of
instructions readable by the machine, they may be stored on a tangible medium.
[0072]    Systems and modules described herein may comprise software,
firmware, hardware, or any combination(s) of software, firmware, or hardware
suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may
reside on servers, workstations, personal computers, computerized tablets,
personal digital assistants (PDA), and other devices suitable for the purposes
described herein. Software and other modules may be accessible via local
memory, via a network, via a browser or other application or via other means
suitable for the purposes described herein. Data structures described herein
may comprise computer files, variables, programming arrays, programming
structures, or any electronic information storage schemes or methods, or any
combinations thereof, suitable for the purposes described herein.

                                       16
[0073]   Although the present disclosure has been described hereinabove by
way of non-restrictive, illustrative embodiments thereof, these embodiments
may be modified at will within the scope of the appended claims without
departing   from   the    spirit   and nature  of  the    present disclosure.

                                         17
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system for improving perceptual
     cognitive abilities of a subject, comprising:
             a multidimensional display configured to display virtual objects
     moving in a given multidimensional environment during a plurality of tests
     of a training sequence;
             a user interface configured to collect, for each test, a response
     from the subject, the response for a given test including an identification
     of a target subset of the virtual objects tracked by the subject during the
     given test; and
             a computer configured to:
                     control the display of virtual objects on the multidimensional
             display,
                     implement a training sequence controller for controlling the
             training sequence using a staircase variation of a speed of
             movement of the virtual objects, and
                     determine an evolution of the perceptual-cognitive abilities
             of the subject considering the responses from the subject and
             considering (a) a first motor load being added on to the subject
             during at least one test of one part of the training sequence, the
             first motor load causing no efferent signal from the subject's brain
             and (b) a second motor load being added on to the subject during
             at least one test of another part of the training sequence, the
             second motor load being heavier than the first motor load;
             wherein the first and second motor loads are used to adapt the
     training sequence to a given condition and/or activity of the subject to
     allow the system to better improve the perceptual-cognitive abilities of the
     subject related to said subject's condition and/or activity.
  2. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
     wherein each test of the training sequence includes a core exercise.

                                     18
3. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 2,
   wherein the training sequence comprises a first number of iterations of
   the core exercise performed in the absence of any motor load.
4. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 3,
   wherein a second number of iterations of the core exercise performed
   while the first motor load is added on to the subject follow the first number
   of iterations of the core exercise.
5. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 4,
   wherein a third number of iterations of the core exercise performed while
   the second motor load is added on to the subject follow the second
   number of iterations of the core exercise.
6. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
   wherein the second motor load is a specific motor demand adapted to a
   given real-life situation.
7. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
   wherein the second motor load is selected from a motor task, a visual
   stimulus, a visual stimulus accompanied by a sound, and a combination
   thereof.
8. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
   wherein the given multidimensional environment comprises a three
   dimensional environment.
9. A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
   further comprising one or more sensors operatively connected to the
   training sequence controller for monitoring movements of the subject.

                                      19
10.A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
   wherein:
           the user interface is configured to allow the subject to change at
   least one parameter of the training sequence.
11.A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 10,
   wherein tests in the training sequence comprises tracking the moving
   target virtual objects in a three dimensional environment and wherein the
   at least one parameter comprises a correct tracking speed of movement
   of the virtual objects.
12.A perceptual-cognitive-motor learning system as defined in claim 1,
   wherein the training sequence controller is configured to determine a
   speed threshold based on responses to the staircase variation of speed
   of movement of the virtual moving objects.
13.A method for improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a subject,
   comprising:
           submitting the subject to a training sequence, the training
   sequence including displaying, on a multidimensional display, virtual
   objects moving in a given multidimensional environment during a plurality
   of tests of the training sequence, the training sequence using a staircase
   variation of a speed of movement of the virtual objects;
           adding a first motor load to the subject during at least one test of
   one part of the training sequence, the first motor load causing no efferent
   signal from the subject's brain;
           adding a second motor load to the subject in at least one test of
   another part of the training sequence, the second motor load being
   heavier than the first motor load;
           collecting responses from the subject, using a user interface, the
   response for a given test including an identification of a target subset of
   the virtual objects tracked by the subject during the given test;

                                      20
           evaluating, in a computer, an evolution of the perceptual-cognitive
   abilities of the subject considering the responses and considering the first
   and second motor loads; and
           wherein the first and second motor loads adapt the training
   sequence to a given condition and/or activity of the subject to allow the
   method to better improve the perceptual-cognitive abilities of the subject
   related to said subject's condition and/or activity.
14.A method as defined in claim 13, comprising:
           initiating the training sequence with a first number of iterations of
   a core exercise performed in the absence of any motor load;
           continuing the training sequence with a second number of
   iterations of the core exercise performed while the first motor load is
   added on to the subject; and
           completing the training sequence with a third number of iterations
   of the core exercise performed while the second motor load is added on
   to the subject.
15.A method for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a
   subject as defined in claim 13, comprising:
           receiving from the subject a command to change at least one
   parameter of the training sequence.
16.A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the at least one parameter of
   the training sequence is selected from a correct tracking speed of
   movement of the virtual objects, a number of repetitions of the training
   sequence, a repetition rate of the training sequence, and a combination
   thereof.

                                    21
17.A method for evaluating or improving perceptual-cognitive abilities of a
   subject as defined in claim 16, comprising:
          setting a subjective speed of movement of the virtual objects
   based on at least one command received from the subject; and
          using the staircase variation to selectively increase and/or
   decrease the subjective speed of movement of the virtual objects until an
   individual speed threshold is determined.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
