                                             Abstract:
A sleep apnea prevention sleep-aid mask is described. The sleep-aid mask is configured to
secure the lips of a user together in a natural state, in order to encourage the respiratory system
of the user to employ the nasal passages rather than the mouth for respiration. A pad equipped
with a perforated mesh or channel is positioned over the lips and mouth of the user, and secured
in position on the user via an adhesive, which temporarily affixes the pad to the face of the user.
The sleep-aid mask is preferably shaped and sized according to the specific size of the user's
face, and is configured to limit the effective diameter of the mouth of the user, in order to cause
continued use of respiration via the nasal passages.

WO 2015/017862         PCT/US2014/049634
               CD'
                   1/7

     WO 2015/017862                                                            PCT/US2014/049634
Sleep Apnea Prevention Mask
FIELD OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
         The present invention relates to face masks designed to be worn by people during sleep,
and more specifically, to sleep masks configured to cover the mouth and lips of the user. The
present invention is oriented toward reinforcing healthy breathing patterns, specifically breathing
patterns that do not induce sleep apneas, as well as encouraging the act of breathing through the
nasal passages.
BACKGROUND OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
         Occasionally, it is known that some individuals suffer from mild to severe sleep
disorders. Some individuals merely have difficulty falling asleep, or perhaps staying asleep,
while others have difficulties maintaining consistent, healthy breathing patterns. Individuals that
suffer from sleep apnea are known to have pauses or gaps in breathing that can last 20 seconds or
more, and in some cases, the apnea can last for minutes. This can cause a variety of problems for
the individual, ranging from drowsiness, irritability, difficulty storing memories, incomplete
sleep cycles, slower reaction time, daytime fatigue, and even impaired vision.
        Additionally, it is known that sleep apnea can be difficult to initially detect, and can also
be difficult to effectively treat. Frequently individuals suffering from sleep apnea are unaware of
                                                  1

      WO 2015/017862                                                             PCT/US2014/049634
experiencing apneas throughout the night, and are unaware of what is causing their drowsiness
the next day. Once a formal sleep study is conducted, diagnosis of sleep apnea can be made.
         Treatments after diagnosis often include lifestyle changes, medication, and behavioral
therapy. Additionally, in some cases a CPAP (Continuous Positive Air Pressure) device can be
used and a splint employed in order to facilitate and encourage healthier breathing and breathing
patterns during sleep. However, many of these treatments could be aided, and in some cases, be
rendered unneeded via an external device that could potentially eliminate the need for surgery,
and augment the efficacy of medication and lifestyle changes to the overall treatment for sleep
apnea. Such a device would preferably orient the lips and jaw of the individual in order to
facilitate ideal respiratory resting posture, and encourage the individual to inhale and exhale
through the nasal passages, aiding in the prevention of sleep apneas.
         Thus, there is a need for a device capable of externally maintaining the lips and jaw of the
face of a user in a relaxed, closed posture, in order to facilitate respiration through the nasal
passages and aide in the treatment and prevention of sleep apnea.
         U.S. Patent No. US 6,494,209B2 filed by George Kulick on 12/17/2002 is for a
mouthpiece and tubing. Kulick is similar to the present invention in that it attempts to solve
sleep disorders. However, Kulick employs a mouthpiece engineer to fit within and around the
mouth of the user, whereas the present invention is designed to remain wholly external to the
mouth of the user.
         US. Patent No. US 7,451,766B2 filed on 11/18/2008 by Chipp Miller is for an enhanced
breathing device titled "tubing based device for snoring and/or sleep apnea." Miller addresses
                                                   2

     WO 2015/017862                                                          PCT/US2014/049634
the problem of sleep apnea as well, but employs additional tubing to direct respiration, unlike the
present invention, which preferably uses a pad and integrated mesh perforation to direct air flow.
SUMMARY OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
        The present invention is a sleep-aid device designed to hold a user's mouth in a natural
closed position, helping to ensure that the tongue and jaw of the use will not relax during sleep
and cause pauses in breathing known as apneas. The present invention employs a form of
hypoallergenic adhesive affixed to a paper-thin, perforated silicone or cloth pad, similar in
construction to 3MTM   MediporeTM in order to securely and temporarily affix the present
invention to the face, namely the cheeks, lips, and/or jaw of the user. The sleep aid of the
present invention is designed to hold the lips of the user closed, encouraging breathing through
the nasal passages and nostrils.
        A permeation, consisting of a thin mesh or cylindrical channel is disposed just above or
between the adhesive of the present invention, and is positioned such that the permeation lies
over or just above the mouth of the user during use. The permeation exists to provide an
alternate channel for respiration through the mouth in the event that the nasal passage of the user
becomes blocked, forcing the user to breath through his or her mouth.
        The pad of the present invention is preferably configured to conform to the shape of the
user's face, and provide a semi-secure seal over the mouth of the user during use. While the seal
                                                 3

     WO 2015/017862                                                          PCT/US2014/049634
need not be completely air-tight, any restriction over the mouth of a user during sleep will help to
curtail his or her use of the mouth to breathe.
         When the present invention is properly positioned and affixed to the face of the user, the
user's respiration is channeled, and therefore encouraged to flow through the nasal passages of
the user rather than through the mouth. Through this method of respiration, it is less likely for
the user to suffer from a sleep apnea.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Fig. 1 depicts the present invention as viewed from the front.
         Fig. 2 shows the present invention as viewed from the back.
         Fig. 3 exhibits an alternate embodiment of the present invention, exhibiting a cylinder.
         Fig. 4 depicts an alternate embodiment of the present invention, highlighting an alternate
placement of the adhesive of the present invention.
         Fig. 5 shows an alternate embodiment of the present invention detailing a variation on the
shape of the pad of the present invention.
         Fig. 6 displays the primary, preferred embodiment of the present invention as seen from
the front.
                                                   4

     WO 2015/017862                                                            PCT/US2014/049634
        Fig. 7 exhibits a cross-sectional side view of the preferred embodiment of the present
invention detailing the layers of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
        The present invention is a sleep mask configured to be worn on the face of a user during
sleep. The present invention preferably consists of a pad (10) that is preferably a paper-thin
cloth, a silicone sheet, a woven paper, or similarly soft material. Due the preferably soft and
flexible construction of the pad (10), it is envisioned that the preferred embodiment of the pad
(10) is stretchable, yet strong enough not to break or puncture when stretched. The pad (10) has
a front side (20) and a back side (30). At the center of the pad (10), a permeation (40) exists to
provide a restricted channel for air to pass through. The permeation (40) is preferably small, no
larger than a half inch in diameter, though preferably closer to a quarter-inch in diameter, and
may be embodied by a small hollow cylinder as seen in Fig. 3. However, the permeation (40)
employed by the preferred embodiment of the present invention is a mesh, gas-permeable fabric,
as seen in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, in order to provide the constricted, alternate passage for air in the
event that the user's nasal passage becomes clogged, and alternate breathing through the mouth
is required. The preferred embodiment of the present invention employs a mesh layer (70) which
preferably encompasses the entire surface area of the pad (10).
        The back side (30) of the pad (10) is equipped with an adhesive layer (50) coated in a
conventional adhesive which is strong and water-resistant enough to bind the pad (10)
temporarily to skin, yet preferably does not irritate the skin or leave a sticky residue on the skin.
The adhesive (50) can be seen in Fig. 2, and is represented by diagonal, thin lines across the back
                                                   5

     WO 2015/017862                                                             PCT/US2014/049634
side (30) of the pad (10). The adhesive of the adhesive layer (50) is preferably clear in the
preferred embodiment of the present invention, however it can be envisioned that it may have a
slight coloration to it, in order to help the user easily differentiate between the back side (30) and
the front side (20) of the pad (10). The adhesive layer (50) is preferably capable of remaining in
position even in the event that the user begins to sweat. Additionally, the adhesive of the
adhesive layer (50) of the present invention is preferably non-toxic, and is ideally silicone-based.
The non-toxicity of the adhesive on the adhesive layer (50) is critical as the adhesive is
preferably positioned such that it comes into close contact with the lips and/or mouth of the user.
The adhesive of the present invention is intended to affix the present invention to the upper lip
and lower lip and jaw of the user. The adhesive layer (50) of the present invention is preferably
oriented all around the border of the permeation (40), and extending across the surface area of
the back side (30) of the pad (10). The rounded, slightly rectangular shape of the pad (10) of the
present invention, as seen in Fig. 6, provides for complete adhesion of the present invention to
the face of the user in the ideal position, whereas a square shaped pad is found to be not as stable
when placed in the preferred position.
        Some embodiments of the present invention are preferably equipped with a release tab
(60). The release tab (60) is preferably positioned on the left or right side of the pad (10), and is
free from adhesive. The release tab (60) is designed to facilitate the removal of the present
invention from the face of a user after the sleep session is completed. To use the release tab (60),
the user simply pulls the release tab (60) out and away from the user's face, providing for the pad
(10) to be peeled off the face of the user quickly and easily.
        In some embodiments of the present invention, the adhesive (50) covers the entirety of
the back side (30) of the pad (10) of the present invention. The adhesive layer (50) of the present
                                                    6

      WO 2015/017862                                                           PCT/US2014/049634
invention is preferably covered with an adhesive backing (80) , such as a piece of waxed paper or
clear plastic, in order to keep the adhesive layer (50) clean and sterile until time of use.
Similarly, in some embodiments of the present invention, such as those sized for smaller mouths
or faces, the adhesive layer (50) of the present invention may also encompass or come into
contact with the permeation (40) or come very near to the site of the permeation (40) of the
present invention. The adhesive of the adhesive layer (50) is also crafted to leave little to no
sticky residue behind, and is capable of holding a stable position on the face of the user that
endures for the duration of the sleep session. Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 best demonstrate these
embodiments of the present invention. The embodiment shown in Fig. 6 is best for use on
individuals without facial hair, who wish to use a minimalistic version of the present invention.
         It is envisioned that the present invention is capable of remaining securely affixed to or
over the lips and jaw of the user for the duration of the sleep session due to the strength and
rigidity of the paper-thin and/or paper-like cloth used in the pad (10), as well as due to the
efficacy of the adhesive employed by the present invention. It should be noted that the adhesive
layer (50) and pad (10) that the present invention are equipped with are preferably
hypoallergenic and kept in a sterile container until use. The present invention may also be kept
in a sterile, preferably plastic or paper envelope, similar to a conventional adhesive bandage, in
order to ensure dirt and other contaminants do not compromise the sterility of the pad (10). Such
an envelope may replace the adhesive backing (80) or be an addition to the adhesive backing
(80).
         Alternate embodiments of the present invention may include variations on the size of the
permeation (40). For example, for users with a large lung capacity, the standard size of the
permeation (40) of the present invention may be too small, which could cause an individual to
                                                   7

      WO 2015/017862                                                            PCT/US2014/049634
faint from a lack of oxygen if his or her nasal passages become blocked during the user of the
present invention. As such, some versions of the present invention may be equipped with a
permeation (40) that has a larger diameter, or if the permeation (40) is a mesh screen, the screen
may be larger or equipped with additional small holes to permit slightly greater air flow.
         Similarly, the pad (10) of the present invention may be available in a variety of sizes in
order to accommodate all shapes and sizes of faces. While it is envisioned that a 'one-size-fits
all' size of pad (10) will likely function appropriately for most individuals, larger sizes may be
needed for individuals with irregularly shaped or sized mouths or other facial features.
         In the event that the user has a full face beard, the adhesive layer (50) of the present
invention will be less effective than when placed on a user without facial hair. As such, it is
envisioned that an alternate embodiment of the present invention may be equipped with at least
one elastic band which may facilitate the stable placement of the pad (10) on to the user's face.
It is envisioned that the elastic band would preferably be affixed to the sides of the pad (10), and
be capable of retaining the pad (10) in an approximately ideal location by securing the pad (10)
to the user's face via the elastic band around the user's ears or the back of his or her head.
Adhesive of the adhesive layer (50) is preferably still employed in this alternate embodiment of
the present invention, however it is understood that facial hair would likely infringe on the
adhesive's capacity to remain affixed to the face of the user for the duration of the sleeping
session.
         The method of use of the pad (10) of the present invention is preferably as follows: First
the user cleans the surface of the face and lips with soap and water, and then allows the surface
to dry. Second, the user removes the adhesive backing (80) from the adhesive. Third, the user
                                                    8

     WO 2015/017862                                                             PCT/US2014/049634
pivots or tucks his or her lips inwards slightly in order to create slightly flexible slack in the pad
(10) upon application to the lips and face. Fourth, the user positions the pad (10) such that the
permeation (40) rests at the center of the mouth and lips. A contour shaping at the bottom of the
pad (10) exists to ensure strong adhesion near the curvature of the chin of most users, and also
helps to orient the user as to which end should be closest to the chin. The placement of the
permeation (40) of the pad (10) to the face of the user is configured to keep the lips as close
together as possible while still providing a channel for respiration. The user then goes to sleep,
preventing sleep apnea with the present invention. Upon waking, the user then pulls the release
tab (60) located on the left or right side of the pad (10) in order to remove the pad (10) from the
face of the user. It is preferably envisioned that the pad (10) of the preferred embodiment of the
present invention be designed to be used only once, and then replaced with a new pad (10) at the
next sleeping session.
        Having illustrated the present invention, it should be understood that various adjustments
and versions might be implemented without venturing away from the essence of the present
invention. Further, it should be understood that the present invention is not solely limited to the
invention as described in the embodiments             above, but further comprises any and all
embodiments within the scope of this application.
                                                   9

CLAIMS
        1.      A sleep-aid device, comprising:
        a flexible pad having a front side and a back side and configured to cover a mouth of a
user;
        an adhesive positioned on the back side of the flexible pad and configured to be
releasably secured onto the user's lips; and
        a permeation forming a passage between the front and back sides of the flexible pad,
        wherein the permeation comprises a mesh, which permits air flow through the
permeation during oral respiration.
        2.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive is configured
to be releasably secured only onto the user's lips.
        3.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive is positioned
on an entirety of the back side of the flexible pad.
        4.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive is oriented
around an entire border of the permeation.
        5.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive is water
resistant.
        6.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive is non-toxic.
        7.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive is silicone
based.
        8.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, further comprising an adhesive
backing positioned on the adhesive.
        9.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the permeation has a half
inch diameter.
                                                 1A

        10.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the permeation has a
quarter-inch diameter.
        11.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the permeation further
comprises a cylindrical channel.
        12.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible pad is formed
of cloth.
        13.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible pad is formed
of woven paper.
        14.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible pad is formed
of perforated silicone.
        15.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible pad is
configured to conform to a shape of the user's face.
        16.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible pad comprises
a surface that is entirely mesh.
        17.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible pad comprises
a surface that is partially mesh.
        18.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one tab
disposed on a side of the flexible pad, the at least one tab configured to facilitate removal of
the sleep strip from the user's face.
        19.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 18, wherein the at least one tab is free
from adhesive.
        20.      The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one
elastic band affixed to sides of the flexible pad., the at least one elastic band configured to
                                                11

stretch around and behind a head of the user, the at least one elastic band thereby securing the
flexible pad to the mouth of the user.
        21.     The sleep-aid device according to claim 1, further comprising a container,
        wherein the container is sterile and configured to contain the flexible pad in a sterile
condition until use.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
