NOVEL FXR (NR1H4) BINDING AND ACTIVITY MODULATING
COMPOUNDS
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to compounds which bind to the NR1H4 receptor (FXR) and act as
agonists of FXR. The invention further relates to the use of the compounds for the preparation of
a medicament for the treatment of disease and/or conditions through binding of said nuclear
receptor by said compounds and to a process for the synthesis of said compounds (1). Z is
selected from (a), (b), (c) or (d).
                                                    H                 Z
                           R     A
                                                      Q
 R1    N                  N                  R1    O              R1
                                           N        /                   N
        N     R3                    R3                    R3             N   R3
   R2                   R2                      R2      \            R2
         -- X    (a),           -X     (b),           'X     (c),         -X    (d).

                                                   -1
        Novel FXR (NR1 H4) binding and activity modulating compounds
  The present invention relates to compounds which bind to the NR1H4 receptor (FXR) and act
  as agonists or modulators of FXR. The invention further relates to the use of the compounds for
  the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases and/or conditions through binding of said nuclear
  receptor by said compounds.
  Multicellular organisms are dependent on advanced mechanisms of information transfer
  between cells and body compartments. The information that is transmitted can be highly
  complex and can result in the alteration of genetic programs involved in cellular differentiation,
  proliferation, or reproduction. The signals, or hormones, are often low molecular weight
) molecules, such as peptides, fatty acid, or cholesterol derivatives.
  Many of these signals produce their effects by ultimately changing the transcription of specific
  genes. One well-studied group of proteins that mediate a cell's response to a variety of signals
  is the family of transcription factors known as nuclear receptors, hereinafter referred to often as
  "NR". Members of this group include receptors for steroid hormones, vitamin D, ecdysone, cis
5 and trans retinoic acid, thyroid hormone, bile acids, cholesterol-derivatives, fatty acids (and
  other peroxisomal proliferators), as well as so-called orphan receptors, proteins that are
  structurally similar to other members of this group, but for which no ligands are known. Orphan
   receptors may be indicative of unknown signalling pathways in the cell or may be nuclear
   receptors that function without ligand activation. The activation of transcription by some of these
) orphan receptors may occur in the absence of an exogenous ligand and/or through signal
  transduction pathways originating from the cell surface (D. J. Mangelsdorf et al., Cell 1995, 83,
   835; R. M. Evans, Mol. Endocrinol. 2005, 19, 1429).
   In general, three functional domains have been defined in NRs. An amino terminal domain is
   believed to have some regulatory function. It is followed by a DNA-binding domain hereinafter
5  referred to as "DBD" which usually comprises two zinc finger elements and recognizes a
  specific Hormone Responsive Element hereinafter referred to as "HRE" within the promoters of
   responsive genes. Specific amino acid residues in the "DBD" have been shown to confer DNA
   sequence binding specificity (M. Schena and K. R. Yamamoto, Science 1988, 241, 965). A
   ligand-binding-domain hereinafter referred to as "LBD" is at the carboxy-terminal region of
0  known NRs.
   In the absence of hormone, the LBD appears to interfere with the interaction of the DBD with its
   HRE. Hormone binding seems to result in a conformational change in the NR and thus opens
   this interference (A. M. Brzozowski et al., Nature 1997, 389, 753). A NR without the LBD
   constitutively activates transcription but at a low level.
5  Coactivators or transcriptional activators are proposed to bridge between sequence specific
   transcription factors, the basal transcription machinery and in addition to influence the chromatin

                                                  -2
   structure of a target cell. Several proteins like SRC-1, ACTR, and Grip1 interact with NRs in a
   ligand enhanced manner (D. M. Heery et al., Nature 1997, 387, 733; T. Heinzel et al., Nature
   1997, 387, 43; K. W. Nettles and G. L. Greene, Annu. Rev. Physiol. 2005, 67, 309).
   Nuclear receptor modulators like steroid hormones affect the growth and function of specific
 5 cells by binding to intracellular receptors and forming nuclear receptor-ligand complexes.
   Nuclear receptor-hormone complexes then interact with a HRE in the control region of specific
   genes and alter specific gene expression (A. Aranda and A. Pascual, Physiol. Rev. 2001, 81,
   1269).
   The Farnesoid X Receptor alpha (hereinafter also often referred to as NR1H4 when referring to
 ) the human receptor) is a prototypical type 2 nuclear receptor which activates genes upon
   binding to promoter region of target genes in a heterodimeric fashion with Retinoid X Receptor
   (B. M. Forman et al., Cell 1995, 81, 687). The relevant physiological ligands of NR1H4 are bile
   acids (D. J. Parks et al., Science 1999, 284, 1365; M. Makishima et al., Science 1999, 284,
    1362). The most potent one is chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), which regulates the expression
 5 of several genes that participate in bile acid homeostasis. Farnesol and derivatives, together
   called farnesoids, are originally described to activate the rat orthologue at high concentration
   but they do not activate the human or mouse receptor. FXR is expressed in the liver, throughout
   the entire gastrointestinal tract including the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, small intestine,
   colon, ovary, adrenal gland and kidney. Beyond controlling intracellular gene expression, FXR
 ) seems to be also involved in paracrine and endocrine signalling by upregulating the expression
   of the cytokine Fibroblast Growth Factor 15 (rodents) or 19 (monkeys, humans, J. A. Holt et al.,
   Genes Dev. 2003, 17, 1581; T. Inagaki et al., Cell Metab. 2005, 2, 217).
   Small molecule compounds which act as FXR modulators have been disclosed in the following
   publications: WO 2000/037077, WO 2003/015771, WO 2004/048349, WO 2007/076260, WO
5  2007/092751, WO 2007/140174, WO 2007/140183, WO 2008/051942, WO 2008/157270, WO
   2009/005998, WO 2009/012125, WO 2008/025539 and WO 2008/025540. Further small
   molecule FXR modulators have been recently reviewed (M. L. Crawley, Expert Opin Ther. Pat.
   2010, 20,1047; D. Merk et al., Future Med. Chem. 2012, 4, 1015).
   In WO 2011/020615 we disclosed chiral cyclopropylidene compounds of the following general
0  formula
                                                             O        z
                                 R     A
   wherein the variables are defined similar as in this application.
   The problem underlying the present invention is to generate FXR-agonists with improved
   physicochemical properties in general, and reduced hydrophobicity, improved aqueous solubility

                                                      -3
  and better membrane permeability, in particular, compared to compounds claimed in
  WO 2011/020615.
  Said problem has been solved by a compound according to the following Formula (1), an
  enantiomer, diastereomer, tautomer, solvate, prodrug or pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof
                                 R     A                                     1Z
  wherein
  R is selected from the group consisting of COOR8 , CONR7 R8 , tetrazolyl, SO 2 NR7 R8 , C1-6 alkyl,
  SO2 -C1 . alkyl and H, with Re independently selected from the group consisting of H or C1.6 alkyl,
  and R7 and Re independently from each other selected from the group consisting of H, CI.- alkyl,
  halo-C1-6 alkyl, C1.6 alkylene-Rg, SO 2 -C1 - alkyl, wherein R9 is selected from the group consisting
  of COOH, OH and SO3H;
  A is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl, thienyl,
  benzothienyl, indazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzotriazolyl, furanyl, benzothiazolyl,
  thiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, each optionally substituted with one or two groups independently selected
  from the group consisting of OH, O-C1 alkyl, 0-halo-C1 .6 alkyl, CI- alkyl, halo-Cl- alkyl, C3.8
  cycloalkyl and halogen;
   Q is selected from the group consisting of phenyl, pyridyl, thiazolyl, thiophenyl, pyrimidyl, each
  optionally substituted with one or two groups independently selected from the group consisting
   of C1.6 alkyl, halo-C 1 .6 alkyl, halogen and CF 3 ;
   Y is selected from N or CH;
   Z is selected from
                   R1       N             R1'N'N            R1   OR1
                                                  N                  I            N
                     DC N           R3              R3               R3           N    R3
                      R2                   R2     \           R2   \         R2
                                 x      ,        x       ,x             or           X
   wherein
   X = CH, N, NO;
5  R, is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1.3 alkyl, C3.6 cylcoalkyl, C4 .5
   alkylcycloalkyl, wherein Cl- alkyl is optionally substituted with 1 to 3 substituents independently
   selected from halogen, hydroxy or C1-6alkoxy;
   R2 and R3 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 3 alkyl, C1 3
   haloalkyl, C1.3 alkoxy, C. 3 haloalkoxy and halogen.

                                              -4
   in another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, R-A in the
   compound according to Formula (1) is selected from
      HO               OS                   H                   O                   H
      HO               HO       V          H 2 NH                               OHO
                         a                   a                                            0
     HO     NN        HO                 H                    HO                      O        j
                             N-N\
                           OkO
                                                                 O              Il
                           0                 0                     0
                       HO                HO                   oHO
                                                  N        or
   In another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, Q in the
   compound according to Formula (1) is
                                                 CI
   In another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, Z in the
   compound according to Formula (1) is
                                                 01
                                                    N
                                                         CI
                                             CI
   In another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, the
   compound according to Formula (1) is selected from
                                          0                                           0
                                        O N                                   O       /N
                         HO-I'      C1        C        O          HO|            C          Ci
                    0            ~  CI                 0                '~C1
            HO                 Cl                  HO                   C.
                                          0                                               0
                         HO|                  C                      HO           o     I        CI
             O0oO                   C1               O    o                         C
           / N                 C                    / 'N                     Cl
5H                                                      HI

             00                                                                    00
         .',                       /'IN                               0 HOIN
                HO.'        C0  I    '    CI           HO       N         C   I  ,N
  10           ~I06                                                 q      CI
                                   0'N
         0HO.'         Il                Cl             HO                         Il  'N
        O                                      0
                      HO  0
                                       N                HO
                                                                N.
                                                                               I 0
                                                                                     N
                  HO"       CI                            -l H0           CI            c
               Nl              CI                  N           CI        c
HO      N     rHO
                                                     N NN
   00                              0
                                   O/                                  0            0/N
                                    N                             N                   NN
      O         HOFIIy            /CI                    H9     j            C,           CI
      HO                C                    H   N             CI
                     0                                0

                                                -6
                                          O                                           O
                      o     O~f             'N                                         'HOIN
                        HOHO                    CI                  HO   |1               Cl
                                     C1                   O                      C1
          HO                   Cl                    HO                     C
                                          ON                                          ON
                                        O    N                                 O       'N
              HO   NC                           C                   HO           C  /     C
          HO                   C1                    HO                     C1
                                          IN                                          /'N
           HO         N        CI          0           HO       N           C         0
                         NO                                 OC       N  CC
                                                  0                 0
           HO 5C                                       HO                   C
                                                                  I N
                                             HO        HCI
                                               NN
                             or H H       n        o    CO
5
  in another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, the
  compound according to Formula R(1)is              CI      CI/
                                                                0
                                             HO   jlzy                C1
  wherein R is selected from the group consisting Of CO 2 H, CONHSO 2Me, and tetrazolyl.

                                                   -7
   In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a compound according to Formula
   (1) for use as a medicament.
   In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to a compound according to Formula
   (1) for use in the prophylaxis and/or treatment of diseases mediated by FXR.
 i In another embodiment, the present invention is directed to the use of a compound according to
   Formula (1) for the preparation of a medicament for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of
   diseases mediated by FXR.
   In another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, the
   disease is selected from chronic intrahepatic or some forms of extrahepatic cholestatic
 ) conditions; liver fibrosis; obstructive or chronic inflammatory disorders of the liver; liver cirrhosis;
    liver steatosis and associated syndromes, cholestatic or fibrotic effects that are associated with
   alcohol-induced cirrhosis or with viral-borne forms of hepatitis; liver failure or liver ischemia after
    major liver resection; chemotherapy associated steatohepatitis (CASH); acute liver failure;
   and/or Inflammatory Bowel Diseases.
 5  In another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, the
    disease is selected from lipid and lipoprotein disorders; Type 11 Diabetes and clinical
    complications of Type I and Type Il Diabetes, including diabetic nephropathy, diabetic
    neuropathy, diabetic retinopathy and other observed effects of clinically manifest long term
    Diabetes; conditions and diseases which result from chronic fatty and fibrotic degeneration of
 )  organs due to enforced lipid and specifically triglyceride accumulation and subsequent
    activation of profibrotic pathways, such as Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD), or Non
    Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH); obesity or metabolic syndrome (combined conditions of
    dyslipidemia, diabetes or abnormally high body-mass index); and/or cute myocardial infarction,
    acute stroke or thrombosis which occurs as an endpoint of chronic obstructive atherosclerosis.
.5  In another embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, the
    disease     is  selected   from   non-malignant     hyperproliferative  disorders     and   malignant
    hyperproliferative disorders, specifically of hepatocellular carcinoma, colon adenoma and
    polyposis, colon adenocarcinoma, breast cancer, pancreas adenocarcinoma, Barrett's
    esophagus or other forms of neoplastic diseases of the gastrointestinal tract and the liver.
30  The improved physico-chemical properties have been achieved by the introduction of a polar
    hydroxyl group on a 1,3-cyclobutylidene or 1,3-azetidinylidene group replacing the former 1,2
    cyclopropylidene ring.
                                                                           OH
                         R' A ,     QO,_ZA-                    RIA-Y        Q-O

                                                -8
  Surprisingly, the resulting compounds maintained their activity on the FXR receptor but
  demonstrated improved physico-chemical properties, such as higher aqueous solubility and/or
  membrane permeability.
  The compounds of the present invention share a common chemical structure according to
  Formula (1) in claim 1.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, the
  present invention is directed to an enantiomer, diastereomer or pharmaceutically acceptable
  salt of a compound according to Formula (1).
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, R in
  Formula (1) is selected from the group consisting of COORs, CONR7 R8 , SO 2NR7 R8 , and S0 2 -C1 .
  6 alkyl.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, RO in
  Formula (1) is H.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, R7 and
  R8   in Formula (1) are independently from each other selected from the group consisting of H
  and S0 2-C1l. alkyl.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, R7 in
  Formula (1) is H.
   In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, Ra in
   Formula (1) is S0 2-C1 .63alkyl.
   In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, A is
  selected from the group consisting of phenyl, pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazolyl, indazolyl, and
  oxadiazolyl.
   In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, A is
5 substituted with one or two groups independently selected from C 1.6 alkyl, more preferably C1.3
  alkyl. In another preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below
  embodiments, A is unsubstituted.
   In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, Q is
  phenyl.
0  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, Q is
  substituted with one or two groups independently selected from halogen, more preferably one
  group selected from halogen, in particular Cl.
   In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, Z is

                                                   -9
                                              R1     0,
                                                        ,N
                                                              R3
                                                 R2
                                                          _X.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, X =
  CH.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, R1 is
  C3.6 cylcoalkyl, in particular cyclopropyl.
  In a preferred embodiment in combination with any of the above or below embodiments, R2 and
  R3 are independently selected from halogen, in particular Cl.
  The compounds of the present invention can be in the form of a prodrug compound. "Prodrug
  compound" means a derivative that is converted into a compound according to the present
) invention by a reaction with an enzyme, gastric acid or the like under a physiological condition in
  the living body, e.g. by oxidation, reduction, hydrolysis or the like, each of which is carried out
   enzymatically. Examples of the prodrug are compounds, wherein the amino group in a
  compound of the present invention is acylated, alkylated or phosphorylated to form, e.g.,
   eicosanoylamino, alanylamino, pivaloyloxymethylamino or wherein the hydroxyl group is
   acylated, alkylated, phosphorylated or converted into the borate, e.g. acetyloxy, palmitoyloxy,
   pivaloyloxy, succinyloxy, fumaryloxy, alanyloxy or wherein the carboxyl group is esterified or
   amidated. These compounds can be produced from compounds of the present invention
   according to well-known methods. Other examples of the prodrug are compounds, wherein the
   carboxylate in a compound of the present invention is, for example, converted into an alkyl-,
)  aryl-, choline-, amino, acyloxymethylester, linolenoylester.
   Metabolites of compounds of the present invention are also within the scope of the present
   invention.
   Where tautomerism, like e.g. keto-enol tautomerism, of compounds of the present invention or
   their prodrugs may occur, the individual forms, like e.g. the keto and enol form, are each within
5  the scope of the invention as well as their mixtures in any ratio. Same applies for stereoisomers,
   like e.g. enantiomers, cis/trans isomers, conformers and the like.
   If desired, isomers can be separated by methods well known in the art, e.g. by liquid
   chromatography. Same applies for enantiomers by using e.g. chiral stationary phases.
   Additionally, enantiomers may be isolated by converting them into diastereomers, i.e. coupling
0  with an enantiomerically pure auxiliary compound, subsequent separation of the resulting
   diastereomers and cleavage of the auxiliary residue. Alternatively, any enantiomer of a
   compound of the present invention may be obtained from stereoselective synthesis using

                                                 - 10
  optically pure starting materials. Another way to obtain pure enantiomers from racemic mixtures
  would use enantioselective crystallization with chiral counterions.
  The compounds of the present invention can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable
  salt or a solvate. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" refers to salts prepared from
  pharmaceutically acceptable non-toxic bases or acids, including inorganic bases or acids and
  organic bases or acids. In case the compounds of the present invention contain one or more
  acidic or basic groups, the invention also comprises their corresponding pharmaceutically or
  toxicologically acceptable salts, in particular their pharmaceutically utilizable salts. Thus, the
  compounds of the present invention which contain acidic groups can be present on these
  groups and can be used according to the invention, for example, as alkali metal salts, alkaline
   earth metal salts or ammonium salts. More precise examples of such salts include sodium salts,
   potassium salts, calcium salts, magnesium salts or salts with ammonia or organic amines such
   as, for example, ethylamine, ethanolamine, triethanolamine or amino acids. The compounds of
   the present invention which contain one or more basic groups, i.e. groups which can be
   protonated, can be present and can be used according to the invention in the form of their
   addition salts with inorganic or organic acids. Examples of suitable acids include hydrogen
   chloride, hydrogen bromide, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, methanesulfonic acid, p
   toluenesulfonic acid, naphthalenedisulfonic acids, oxalic acid, acetic acid, tartaric acid, lactic
    acid, salicylic acid, benzoic acid, formic acid, propionic acid, pivalic acid, diethylacetic acid,
    malonic acid, succinic acid, pimelic acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, malic acid, sulfaminic acid,
    phenylpropionic acid, gluconic acid, ascorbic acid, isonicotinic acid, citric acid, adipic acid, and
    other acids known to the person skilled in the art. If the compounds of the present invention
    simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule, the invention also includes, in
    addition to the salt forms mentioned, inner salts or betaines (zwitterions). The respective salts
5   can be obtained by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art like, for
    example, by contacting these with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or
    dispersant, or by anion exchange or cation exchange with other salts. The present invention
    also includes all salts of the compounds of the present invention which, owing to low
    physiological compatibility, are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be
0   used, for example, as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts.
     Further the compounds of the present invention may be present in the form of solvates, such as
     those which include as solvate water, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, such as
     alcohols, in particular ethanol.
5    Furthermore, the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least
     one compound of the present invention, or a prodrug compound thereof, or a pharmaceutically
     acceptable salt or solvate thereof as active ingredient together with a pharmaceutically
     acceptable carrier.

                                                 - 11
   "Pharmaceutical composition" means one or more active ingredients, and one or more inert
   ingredients that make up the carrier, as well as any product which results, directly or indirectly,
   from combination, complexation or aggregation of any two or more of the ingredients, or from
   dissociation of one or more of the ingredients, or from other types of reactions or interactions of
   one or more of the ingredients. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical compositions of the present
   invention encompass any composition made by admixing at least one compound of the present
   invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may additionally comprise one or more
   other compounds as active ingredients like a prodrug compound or other nuclear receptor
   modulators.
   The compositions are suitable for oral, rectal, topical, parenteral (including subcutaneous,
   intramuscular, and intravenous), ocular (ophthalmic), pulmonary (nasal or buccal inhalation) or
    nasal administration, although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the
    nature and severity of the conditions being treated and on the nature of the active ingredient.
   They may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods
   well-known in the art of pharmacy.
   The compounds of the present invention can be prepared by a combination of methods
   described in Schemes I to Ilil. As depicted in Scheme I a 4-membered cyclic ketone, substituted
    with substituent A in the 3-position can react with a metalated aromatic or heteroaromatic ring
 )  M-Q-O-CH 2Z (M = metal, e.g. Li) in aprotic solvents and preferably at low temperatures to afford
    a hydroxyl substituted 4-membered ring bearing the substituents A and Q. In the case where Y
    is CH two isomers can form (A and Q transannular cis or trans to each other). Under optimized
    conditions the formation of mainly one of the two isomers can be achieved. The two isomers
    can be separated by appropriate methods known in the art like e.g. silica gel chromatography or
5   preparative RP-HPLC.
    Scheme I
                                                    aprotic solvent,
               A-Y      =O     +  M-Q-OioZ          low temperature
                            R /                                      -  RIA Y X     O    _QZ
    In Scheme 1l the methods are summarized which are used to prepare the 4-membered cyclic
    ketones needed for the synthesis of the compounds of this invention. In option a) a vinyl bearing
0   intermediate, e.g. prepared by vinylation of a corresponding halogen-containing starting material
    R-A-X (X = halogen) can react with in situ formed cx-dichloro ketene to form a 2,2
    dichlorocyclobutanone. After dehalogenation, e.g. with Zn in acetic acid under reflux, the
    desired 3-substituted cyclobutanones are obtained. Alternatively, the vinyl-intermediates can
    react with in situ generated unsubtituted ketene to afford in one step the desired cyclobutanone

                                                     -12
  intermediates. In option b) 3-methylenecyclobutanecarbonitrile is used as starting material.
  Substituted heterocycles can be built up from the cyano group in several steps by methods
  known to those skilled in the art. The desired cyclobutanones can be obtained by oxidative
  cleavage of the exocyclic double bond using conditions and reagents known to those skilled in
  the art, e.g. by the use of OsO4, ozone or RhCI3/NalO 4 as oxidants. Option c) shows the
  methods used to prepare the substituted azetidinones. Cu- or Pd-catalysed C-N cross coupling
  between 3-hydroxy-azetidine and halo-aromatic or halo-heteroaromatic rings afford the
   corresponding N-substituted 3-hydroxy-azetidines which can be transformed into the desired
   azetidinones by oxidation.
   Scheme il
                                                                Cl Cl
                                    in situ Cl    *=O    R-A--&        O     dehalogenation
                                            Cl
              a)  A-X            '     R 'A              in situ =*=O
        b)                    steps to build up
                              heteroaromatic ring           Het               Ox.           Het
            NC    K)R                                       Ar                           R  Ar
                                                            HetAr = heteroaromatic ring
        C)                                 Cu or Pd catalysed
              A-X    +  HN         OH       C-N coupling     ,     A-NYOH            Ox.     A-N =O
            R/                                                   R                         R
    Scheme ItI illustrates some possibilities to perform modifications of the substituents at the A
3   group after the formation of the 4-membered hydroxy-bearing rings. For example, a leaving
    group X (e.g. bromide) can be substituted by a cyano group, a carboxylic ester, methylsulfonyl
    or thioether by transition metal catalysed cross coupling reactions. The obtained derivatives can
    be further transformed into other derivatives by methods known to those skilled in the art. For
    example, the cyano and the ester group can be hydrolysed under basic conditions to the afford
0   a carboxylic acid which in turn can be transformed into acyl-sulfonamides. A benzyl thioether
    can be chlorinated to afford the chlorosulfonyl intermediate which reacts with ammonia to the
    corresponding sulfonamides.
    Scheme III

                                                   - 13
               OH          substitution of             OH      for Ra = carboxylic ester:      OH
       A-Y      H          leaving group X     A-Y                    hyrolysis         A-YQH
     XA-Y,      Q-OCH 2Z                    Ra          -OCH 2 Z                 HO                   -OCH2Z
                                                                                        0
                                                         for Ra = S-benzyl thioether:
                                                         chlorination                      acyl sulfonamide
                                                                                          Information
                         OH           NHR 7R8                OH'N                HOHY~
                RR 2                                         Q-OCH2Z               N            'Q    -OCH 2Z
      R8RN0 2S                                                                  R1s
                                                                                Rb      0
   As a result, the present invention relates to compounds according to the general Formula (1)
   which bind to FXR and act as agonists or modulators of FXR.
   The invention further relates to the use of said compounds for the treatment and/or prophylaxis
 5 of diseases and/or conditions through binding of said nuclear receptor by said compounds.
   Further the present invention relates to the use of said compounds for the preparation of a
   medicament for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases and/or conditions through binding
   of said nuclear receptor by said compounds. Specifically, the present invention relates to the
   use of compounds according to Formula (1) in the preparation of a medicament for the
 ) prophylaxis and/or treatment of chronic intrahepatic or some forms of extrahepatic cholestatic
   conditions, of liver fibrosis, of acute intraheptic cholestatic conditions, of obstructive or chronic
   inflammatory disorders that arise out of improper bile composition, of gastrointestinal conditions
   with a reduced uptake of dietary fat and fat-soluble dietary vitamins, of inflammatory bowel
   diseases, of lipid and lipoprotein disorders, of Type 11Diabetes and clinical complications of
 5 Type I and Type I Diabetes, of conditions and diseases which result from chronic fatty and
   fibrotic degeneration of organs due to enforced lipid and specifically triglyceride accumulation
   and subsequent activation of profibrotic pathways, of obesity and metabolic syndrome
   (combined conditions of dyslipidemia, diabetes and abnormally high body-mass index), of acute
   myocardial infarction, of acute stroke, of thrombosis which occurs as an endpoint of chronic
0  obstructive atherosclerosis, of persistant infections by intracellular bacteria or parasitic
   protozoae, of non-malignant hyperproliferative disorders, of malignant hyperproliferative
   disorders, of colon adenocarcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma in particular, of liver steatosis
   and associated syndromes, of liver failure or liver malfunction as an outcome of chronic liver
   diseases or of surgical liver resection, of Hepatitis B infection, of Hepatitis C infection and/or of
5  cholestatic and fibrotic effects that are associated with alcohol-induced cirrhosis or with viral
   borne forms of hepatitis.
   Medicaments as referred to herein may be prepared by conventional processes, including the
   combination of a compound according to the present invention and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier.

                                                 -14
  FXR is proposed to be a nuclear bile acid sensor. As a result, it modulates both, the synthetic
  output of bile acids in the liver and their recycling in the intestine (by regulating bile acid binding
  proteins). But beyond bile acid physiology, FXR seems to be involved in the regulation of many
  diverse physiological processes which are relevant in the etiology and for the treatment of
  diseases as diverse as cholesterol gallstones, metabolic disorders such as Type il Diabetes,
  dyslipidemias or obesity, chronic inflammatory diseases such as Inflammatory Bowel Diseases
  or chronic intrahepatic forms of cholestasis and many others diseases (T. Claudel et al.,
  Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 2005, 25, 2020; Y. D. Wang et al., Cell Res. 2008, 18, 1087.
  FXR regulates a complex pattern of response genes in the liver and in the gastrointestinal tract.
  The gene products have impact on diverse physiological processes. In the course of functional
  analysis of FXR, the first regulatory network that was analyzed was the regulation of bile acid
  synthesis. While the LXRs induce the key enzyme of the conversion of cholesterol into bile
  acids, Cyp7A1, via the induction of the regulatory nuclear receptor LRH-1, FXR represses the
  induction of Cyp7A1 via the upregulation of mRNA encoding SHP, a further nuclear receptor
  that is dominant repressive over LRH-1. Since FXR binds the end products of this pathway,
  primary bile acids such as cholic acid (CA) or CDCA, this can be regarded as an example of
  feedback inhibition on the gene expression level (B. Goodwin et al., Mol. Cell 2000, 6, 517; T. T.
  Lu et al., Mol. Cell 2000, 6, 507). Parallel to the repression of bile acid synthesis via SHP, FXR
  induces a range of so-called ABC (for ATP-binding cassette) transporters that are responsible
  for the export of toxic bile acids from the hepatocyte cytosol into the canaliculi, the small bile
  duct ramifications where the bile originates. This hepatoprotective function of FXR became first
  apparent with the analysis of FXR knockout mice (C. J. Sinai et al., Cell 2000, 102, 731). where
  under- or overexpression of several ABC-transporters in the liver was shown. Further detailed
  analysis revealed that the major bile salt excretory pump BSEP or ABCB1 1 (M.
5 Ananthanarayanan et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2001, 276, 28857; J. R. Plass et al., Hepatology 2002,
  35, 589) as well as the key enzyme which mediates lipid transfer from lipoproteins to
  phospholipids, PLTP (N. L. Urizar et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2000, 275, 39313), and the two key
  canalicular membrane transporters for phospholipids, MRP-2 (ABCC4) (H. R. Kast et al., J. Biol.
  Chem. 2002, 277, 2908) and MDR-3 (ABCB4); L. Huang et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2003, 278,
0 51085) are direct targets for ligand-directed transcriptional activation by FXR (summarized in:
  M. Miyata, J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 2005, 312, 759; G. Rizzo et al., Curr. Drug Targets Immune
  Endocr. Metabol. Disord. 2005, 5, 289).
  The fact that FXR seems to be the major metabolite sensor and regulator for the synthesis,
  export and re-circulation of bile acids suggested the use of FXR ligands to induce bile flow and
5 change bile acid composition towards more hydrophilic composition. With the development of
  the first synthetic FXR ligand GW4064 (P. R. Maloney et al., J. Med. Chem. 2000, 43, 2971; T.
  M. Willson et al., Med. Res. Rev. 2001, 21, 513) as a tool compound and of the semi-synthetic
  artificial bile acid ligand 6-alpha-ethyl-CDCA, the effects of superstimulation of FXR by potent

                                                  - 15
   agonists could be analyzed. It was shown that both ligands induce bile flow in bile duct ligated
   animals. Moreover, in addition to choleretic effects, also hepatoprotective effects could be
   demonstrated (R. Pellicciari et al., J. Med. Chem. 2002, 45, 3569; Y. Liu et al., J. Clin. Invest.
   2003, 112, 1678). This hepatoprotective effect was further narrowed down to an anti-fibrotic
 5 effect that results from the repression of Tissue Inhibitors of Matrix-Metalloproteinases, TIMP-1
   and 2, the induction of collagen-deposit resolving Matrix-Metalloproteinase 2 in hepatic stellate
   cells and the subsequent reduction of alpha-collagen mRNA and Transforming growth factor
   beta (TGF-beta) mRNA which are both pro-fibrotic factors by FXR agonists (S. Fiorucci et al.,
   Gastroenterology 2004, 127, 1497; S. Fiorucci et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 2005, 314, 584).
 3 Furthermore, anti-cholestatic activity was demonstrated in bile-duct ligated animal models as
   well as in animal models of estrogen-induced cholestasis (S. Fiorucci et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp.
   Ther. 2005, 313, 604).
   Genetic studies demonstrate that in hereditary forms of cholestasis (Progressive Familiar
   Intrahepatic Cholestasis = PFIC, Type I - IV) either nuclear localization of FXR itself is reduced
 5 as a consequence of a mutation in the FIC1 gene (in PFIC Type I, also called Byler's Disease)
   (F. Chen et al., Gastroenterology 2004, 126, 756; L. Alvarez et al., Hum. Mol. Genet. 2004, 13,
   2451) or levels of the FXR target gene encoding MDR-3 phospholipid export pump are reduced
   (in PFIC Type 111). Taken together there is a growing body of evidence that FXR binding
   compounds will demonstrate substantial clinical utility in the therapeutic regimen of chronic
 3 cholestatic conditions such as Primary Biliary Cirrhosis (PBC) or Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis
   (PSC) (reviewed in: G. Rizzo et al., Curr. Drug Targets Immune Endocr. Metabol. Disord. 2005,
   5, 289; G. Zoliner et al., Mol. Pharm. 2006, 3, 231; S. Y. Cai et al., Expert Opin. Ther. Targets
   2006, 10, 409).
   The deep impact that FXR activation has on bile acid metabolism and excretion is not only
5  relevant for cholestatic syndromes but even more directly for a therapy against gallstone
   formation. Cholesterol gallstones form due to low solubility of cholesterol that is actively pumped
   out of the liver cell into the lumen of the canaliculi. It is the relative percentage of content of the
   three major components, bile acids, phospholipids and free cholesterol that determines the
   formation of mixed micelles and hence apparent solubility of free cholesterol in the bile. FXR
0  polymorphisms map as quantitative trait loci as one factor contributing to gallstone disease (H.
   Wittenburg, Gastroenterology 2003, 125, 868). Using the synthetic FXR tool compound
   GW4064 it could be demonstrated that activation of FXR leads to an improvement of the
   Cholesterol Saturation Index (CSI) and directly to an abolishment of gallstone formation in C57L
   gallstone susceptible mice whereas drug treatment in FXR knockout mice shows no effect on
5  gallstone formation (A. Moschetta et al., Nature Medicine 2004, 10, 1352).
   These results qualify FXR as a good target for the development of small molecule agonists that
   can be used to prevent cholesterol gallstone formation or to prevent re-formation of gallstones

                                                   -16
  after surgical removal or shockwave lithotripsy (discussed in: S. A. Doggrell, Curr. Opin.
  Investig. Drugs 2006, 7, 344).
  Thus, in one embodiment of the invention, the compound according to Formula (1) and
  pharmaceutical compositions comprising said compound is used for the prophylaxis and/or
  treatment of obstructive or chronic inflammatory disorders that arise out of improper bile
  composition such as cholelithiasis also known as cholesterol gallstones.
  Beyond its strong hepatoprotective and choleretic as well as anti-fibrotic effects that FXR shows
  upon small molecule stimulated activation in the liver, FXR seems to have a role in protecting
  the intestine from neoplastic transformation and from the development of polyps and their
  transition into adenocarcinoma in the gut (S. Modica et al., Cancer Res. 2008, 68, 9589 and R.
  R. Maran et al., J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 2009, 328, 469). Similar to the situation in the intestine
  absence of FXR leads to a high increase in the formation of Hepatocellular Cacrcinoma (HCC),
  the most prominent form of liver cancer (I. Kim et al., Carcinogenesis 2007, 28, 940 and F. Yang
  et al., Cancer Res. 2007, 67, 863). Whereas a functional FXR prevents the formation of colon
  adenocarcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma, FXR activation induces liver regeneration after
  hepatectomy (W. Huang et al., Science 2006, 312, 233).
  The combined hepatoprotective, anti-neoplastic and liver regenerative effects associated with
  FXR activation can be therapeutically exploited for the use of FXR agonists in the treatment of
  sever liver diseases. In one embodiment, the compounds according to the invention and
  pharmaceutical compositions comprising said compounds are used in the treatment of liver
  diseases such as HCC, stimulation of liver regrowth and amelioration of side effects associated
  with major liver resection, liver cirrhosis independent of the etiology and prevention or treatment
  of liver ischemia in the course of liver transplantation or major liver surgery.
  Since the discovery of the first synthetic FXR agonist and its administration to rodents it became
5 evident that FXR is a key regulator of serum triglycerides (P. Maloney et al., J. Med. Chem.
  2000, 43, 2971; T. Willson et al., Med. Res. Rev. 2001, 21, 513). Over the past six years
  accumulating evidence has been published that activation of FXR by synthetic agonists leads to
  significant reduction of serum triglycerides, mainly in the form of reduced VLDL, but also to
  reduced total serum cholesterol (H. R. Kast et al., Mol. Endocrinol. 2001, 15, 1720; N. L. Urizar
0 et al., Science 2002, 296, 1703; G. Lambert et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2003, 278, 2563; M.
  Watanabe et al., J. Clin. Invest. 2004, 113, 1408; A. Figge et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2004, 279,
  2790; S. Bilz et al., Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 2006, 290, E716).
  But the lowering of serum triglycerides is not a stand alone effect. Treatment of db/db or ob/ob
  mice with synthetic FXR agonist GW4064 resulted in marked and combined reduction of serum
5 triglycerides, total cholesterol, free fatty acids, ketone bodies such as 3-OH Butyrate. Moreover,
  FXR activation engages with the intracellular insulin signaling pathway in hepatocytes, resulting
  in reduced output of glucose from liver gluconeogenesis but concomitant increase in liver

                                                  -17
   glycogen. Insulin sensitivity as well as glucose tolerance were positively impacted by FXR
   treatment (K. R. Stayrook et al., Endocrinology 2005, 146, 984; Y. Zhang et al., PNAS 2006,
   103, 1006; B. Cariou et al., J. Biol. Chem. 2006, 281, 11039; K. Ma et al., J. Clin. Invest. 2006,
   116, 1102; D. Duran-Sandoval et al., Biochimie 2005, 87, 93). An effect on reduction of body
   weight was also recently observed in mice overfed with a high lipid diet (C. Lihong et al.,
   American Diabetes Association (ADA) 6 6 h annual scientific sessions, June 2006, Abstract
   Number 856-P). This weight loss effect might results from FXR's induction of FGF-19, a
   fibroblast growth factor that is known to lead to weight loss and athletic phenotype (J. Holt et al.,
   Genes Dev. 2003, 17, 1581; E. Tomlinson et al., Endocrinology 2002, 143, 1741). In recent
   patent applications, the effect of FXR agonist on reduction of body weight was demonstrated
   (WO 2004/087076; WO 2003/080803).
   Taken together, these pharmacological effects of FXR agonists can be exploited in different
   therapeutic ways: FXR binding compounds are thought to be good candidates for the treatment
   of Type 11Diabetes because of their insulin sensitization, glycogenogenic, and lipid lowering
   effects.
    In one embodiment, the compounds according to the invention and pharmaceutical
   compositions comprising said compounds are used in the prophylaxis and/or treatment of Type
    11Diabetes which can be overcome by FXR-mediated upregulation of systemic insulin sensitivity
   and intracellular insulin signalling in liver, increased peripheral glucose uptake and
 ) metabolisation, increased glycogen storage in liver, decreased output of glucose into serum
   from liver-borne gluconeogenesis.
    In a further embodiment, said compounds and pharmaceutical compositions are used for the
   prophylaxis and/or treatment of chronic intrahepatic, such as PBC, PSC, progressive familiar
   cholestasis (PFIC), alcohol-induced cirrhosis and associated cholestasis, and some forms of
5  extrahepatic cholestatic conditions, or liver fibrosis.
   The invention also relates to a compound of Formula (1) or to a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising said compound for the prophylaxis and/or treatment of gastrointestinal conditions
   with a reduced uptake of dietary fat and fat-soluble dietary vitamins which can be overcome by
   increased intestinal levels of bile acids and phospholipids.
0   In a further embodiment, said compound or pharmaceutical composition is used for preventing
   and/or treating a disease selected from the group consisting of lipid and lipoprotein disorders
   such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and atherosclerosis as a clinically manifest
   condition which can be ameliorated by FXR's beneficial effect on lowering total plasma
   cholesterol, lowering serum triglycerides, increasing conversion of liver cholesterol into bile
5  acids and increased clearance and metabolic conversion of VLDL and other lipoproteins in the
   liver.

                                                -18
  In one further embodiment, said compound and pharmaceutical composition are used for the
  prophylaxis and/or treatment of diseases where the combined lipid lowering, anti-cholestatic
  and anti-fibrotic effects of FXR-targeted medicaments can be exploited for the treatment of liver
  steatosis and associated syndromes such as NASH, or for the treatment of cholestatic and
  fibrotic effects that are associated with alcohol-induced cirrhosis, or with viral-borne forms of
  hepatitis.
  In conjunction with the hypolipidemic effects it was also shown that loss of functional FXR leads
  to increased atherosclerosis in ApoE knockout mice (E. A. Hanniman et al., J. Lipid Res. 2005,
  46, 2595). Therefore, FXR agonists might have clinical utility as anti-atherosclerotic and
) cardioprotective drugs. The downregulation of Endothelin-1 in Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells
  might also contribute to such beneficial therapeutic effects (F. He et al., Circ. Res. 2006, 98,
   192).
  The invention also relates to a compound according to Formula (1) or a pharmaceutical
  composition comprising said compound for preventive and posttraumatic treatment of
5 cardiovascular disorders such as acute myocardial infarction, acute stroke, or thrombosis which
  occur as an endpoint of chronic obstructive atherosclerosis.
   Beyond controlling intestinal and colonic polyp formation, FXR seems to be expressed in breast
  cancer tissue and cell lines but not in healthy breast tissue and seems to interact with the
   Estrogen Receptor in ER positive breast cancer cells (K. E. Swales et al., Cancer Res. 2006,
) 66, 10120 and F. Journe et al., Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 2009, 115, 523).
  This would allow to regard FXR also as a potential target for the treatment of proliferative
  diseases, especially metastasizing cancer forms that express a small molecule responsive form
  of FXR.
   In a further embodiment, said compounds and pharmaceutical compositions are used for the
5 prophylaxis and/or treatment of malignant hyperproliferative disorders such as different forms of
  cancer, specifically certain forms of breast, liver or colon cancer where interference with an FXR
   ligand will have a beneficial impact.
   Finally, FXR seems also to be involved in the control of antibacterial defense in the intestine (T.
   Inagaki et al., PNAS. 2006, 103, 3920) although an exact mechanism is not provided. From
0  these published data, however, one can conclude that treatment with FXR agonists might have
  a beneficial impact in the therapy of Inflammatory Bowel Disorders (IBD), in particular those
  forms where the upper (ileal) part of the intestine is affected (e.g. ileal Crohn's disease)
   because this seems to be the site of action of FXR's control on bacterial growth. In IBD the
  desensitization of the adaptive immune response is somehow impaired in the intestinal immune
5  system. Bacterial overgrowth might then be the causative trigger towards establishment of a
  chronic inflammatory response. Hence, dampening of bacterial growth by FXR-borne
   mechanisms might be a key mechanism to prevent acute inflammatory episodes.

                                              -19
  Thus, the invention also relates to a compound according to Formula (1) or a pharmaceutical
  composition comprising said compound for preventing and/or treating a disease related to
  Inflammatory Bowel Diseases such as Crohn's disease or Colitis ulcerosa. FXR-mediated
  restoration of intestinal barrier function and reduction in non-commensal bacterial load is
5 believed to be helpful in reducing the exposure of bacterial antigens to the intestinal immune
  system and can therefore reduce inflammatory responses.
  The invention further relates to a compound or pharmaceutical composition for the prophylaxis
  and/or treatment of obesity and associated disorders such as metabolic syndrome (combined
  conditions of dyslipidemias, diabetes and abnormally high body-mass index) which can be
) overcome by FXR-mediated lowering of serum triglycerides, blood glucose and increased
  insulin sensitivity and FXR-mediated weight loss.
  In a further embodiment, the compounds or pharmaceutical composition of the present
  invention are useful in preventing and/or treating clinical complications of Type I and Type 11
  Diabetes. Examples of such complications include Diabetic Nephropathy, Diabetic Retinopathy,
5 Diabetic Neuropathies, or Peripheral Arterial Occlusive Disease (PAOD). Other clinical
  complications of Diabetes are also encompassed by the present invention.
  Furthermore, conditions and diseases which result from chronic fatty and fibrotic degeneration
  of organs due to enforced lipid and specifically triglyceride accumulation and subsequent
  activation of profibrotic pathways may also be prevented and/or treated by applying the
3 compounds or pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. Such conditions and
  diseases encompass NASH and chronic cholestatic conditions in the liver, Glomerulosclerosis
  and Diabetic Nephropathy in the kidney, Macula Degeneration and Diabetic Retinopathy in the
  eye and Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease in the brain, or Diabetic
  Neuropathies in the peripheral nervous system.
5 In practical use, the compounds of the present invention can be combined as the active
  ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional
  pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms
  depending on the form of preparation desired for administration, e.g., oral or parenteral
  (including intravenous). In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form, any of the usual
0 pharmaceutical media may be employed, such as, for example, water, glycols, oils, alcohols,
  flavoring agents, preservatives, coloring agents and the like in the case of oral liquid
  preparations, such as, for example, suspensions, elixirs and solutions; or carriers such as
  starches, sugars, microcrystalline cellulose, diluents, granulating agents, lubricants, binders,
  disintegrating agents and the like in the case of oral solid preparations such as, for example,
5 powders, hard and soft capsules and tablets, with the solid oral preparations being preferred
  over the liquid preparations.

                                                 - 20
  Because of their ease of administration, tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous
  oral dosage unit form in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers are obviously employed. If
  desired, tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or non-aqueous techniques. Such
  compositions and preparations should contain at least 0.1 percent of active compound. The
  percentage of active compound in these compositions may, of course, be varied and may
  conveniently be between about 2 percent to about 60 percent of the weight of the unit. The
  amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that an effective
  dosage will be obtained. The active compounds can also be administered intranasally as, for
  example, liquid drops or spray.
  The tablets, pills, capsules, and the like may also contain a binder such as gum tragacanth,
  acacia, corn starch or gelatin; excipients such as dicalcium phosphate; a disintegrating agent
  such as corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid; a lubricant such as magnesium stearate; and a
  sweetening agent such as sucrose, lactose or saccharin. When a dosage unit form is a capsule,
  it may contain, in addition to materials of the above type, a liquid carrier such as a fatty oil.
  Various other materials may be present as coatings or to modify the physical form of the dosage
   unit. For instance, tablets may be coated with shellac, sugar or both. A syrup or elixir may
  contain, in addition to the active ingredient, sucrose as a sweetening agent, methyl and
   propylparabens as preservatives, a dye and a flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor.
   Since the compounds of the present invention mostly represent carboxylic acids or similar
   anionic isosters thereof, and since it is well known that salt forms of ionic drug compounds can
   substantially affect the bioavailability of drug compounds, the compounds of the present
   invention may also be used as salts with various countercations to yield an orally available
   formulation. Such pharmaceutically acceptable cations may be amongst others mono- or
   bivalent ions such as ammonium, the alkaline metals sodium or potassium or the alkaline earth
5  metals magnesium        or calcium, certain pharmaceutically acceptable amines such as
   tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane,       ethylendiamine, diethylamine, piperazine or others, or
   certain cationic amino acids such as lysine or arginine.
   The compounds of the present invention may also be administered parenterally. Solutions or
   suspensions of these active compounds can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a
0  surfactant such as hydroxy-propylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid
   polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use,
   these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.
   The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or
   dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable
5  solutions or dispersions. In all cases, the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent
   that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage
   and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria

                                                   - 21
  and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water,
  ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol, propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol), suitable mixtures
  thereof, and vegetable oils.
  Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing a mammal, especially a
  human, with an effective dose of a compound of the present invention. For example, oral, rectal,
  topical, parenteral, ocular, pulmonary, nasal, and the like may be employed. Dosage forms
  include tablets, troches, dispersions, suspensions, solutions, capsules, creams, ointments,
  aerosols, and the like. Preferably compounds of the present invention are administered orally.
  The effective dosage of active ingredient employed may vary depending on the particular
  compound employed, the mode of administration, the condition being treated and the severity of
  the condition being treated. Such dosage may be ascertained readily by a person skilled in the
  art.
  When treating or preventing FXR mediated conditions for which compounds of the present
  invention are indicated, generally satisfactory results are obtained when the compounds of the
  present invention are administered at a daily dosage of from about 0.1 milligram to about 100
  milligram per kilogram of animal body weight, preferably given as a single daily dose or in
  divided doses two to six times a day, or in sustained release form. For most large mammals, the
  total daily dosage is from about 1.0 milligrams to about 1000 milligrams, preferably from about 1
  milligram to about 50 milligrams. In the case of a 70 kg adult human, the total daily dose will
  generally be from about 7 milligrams to about 350 milligrams. This dosage regimen may be
  adjusted to provide the optimal therapeutic response.
  The compounds of the present invention can be prepared according to the procedures of the
  following Schemes and Examples, using appropriate materials and are further exemplified by
  the following specific examples. Moreover, by utilizing the procedures described herein, in
5 conjunction with ordinary skills in the art, additional compounds of the present invention claimed
   herein can be readily prepared. The compounds illustrated in the examples are not, however, to
   be construed as forming the only genus that is considered as the invention. The examples
  further illustrate details for the preparation of the compounds of the present invention. Those
   skilled in the art will readily understand that known variations of the conditions and processes of
D  the following preparative procedures can be used to prepare these compounds. The instant
   compounds are generally isolated in the form of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, such as
   those described above.
   The amine-free bases corresponding to the isolated salts can be generated by neutralization
   with a suitable base, such as aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium
5  hydroxide and potassium hydroxide, and extraction of the liberated amine-free base into an
   organic solvent, followed by evaporation. The amine-free base, isolated in this manner, can be
   further converted into another pharmaceutically acceptable salt by dissolution in an organic

                                                    - 22
   solvent, followed by addition of the appropriate acid and subsequent evaporation, precipitation
   or crystallization. The carboxylic free acids corresponding to the isolated salts can be generated
   by neutralization with a suitable acid, such as aqueous hydrochloric acid, sodium hydrogen
   sulfate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, and extraction of the liberated carboxylic-free acid into
   an organic solvent, followed by evaporation. The carboxylic acid, isolated in this manner, can be
   further converted into another pharmaceutically acceptable salt by dissolution in an organic
   solvent, followed by addition of the appropriate base and subsequent evaporation, precipitation
   or crystallization.
   An illustration of the preparation of compounds of the present invention is shown below. Unless
   otherwise indicated in the schemes, the variables have the same meaning as described above.
   The examples presented below are intended to illustrate particular embodiments of the
   invention. Suitable starting materials, building blocks and reagents employed in the synthesis as
   described below are commercially available from Sigma-Aldrich or Acros Organics, for example,
   or can be routinely prepared by procedures described in the literature, for example in "March's
   Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions, Mechanisms, and Structure", 5 th Edition; John Wiley &
   Sons or T. Eicher, S. Hauptmann "The Chemistry of Heterocycles; Structures, Reactions,
   Synthesis and Application",    2 nd  edition, Wiley-VCH 2003; Fieser et al. "Fiesers' Reagents for
   organic Synthesis" John Wiley & Sons 2000.
 )  Examples
    Example 1: Methyl 3-((1s,3s)-3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cvclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazo-4
   vl)methoxv)phenvl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)benzoate (1)
                                                                    0
                                                             o    I   N
                                                   HO                   CI
                                              0        ."  -   CI
                                          O'              C1
                                    '-S                   CI
    Step 1: 4-((4-Bromo-3-chlorophenox)methyl)-5-cyclopropvl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenyl)-isoxazole
5   (1a)
    To a solution of (5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4-yi)methanol (13 g, 45.8 mmol)
    in CH 2Cl 2 (DCM) (200 mL) was added dropwise SOC12 (40 mL, 336 mmol). The resulting
    mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h and the solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The
    residue was dissolved in NN-dimethylformamide (DMF) (200 ml) and 4-bromo-3-chlorophenol
0   (9.7 g, 47 mmol), K2 CO 3 (40 g, 290 mmol) and Nal (12 g, 80 mmol) were added to this solution.
    The mixture was stirred at 60 0 C overnight, then cooled to rt, diluted with water (1000 mL) and
    extracted with ethyl acetate (EA) (500 mL x 3). The combined organic phases were washed

                                                 - 23
   with brine (500 mL x 3), dried over Na2 SO4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified
   by flash chromatography on silica gel (CC) to give the title compound 1a (19 g, 88%) as a white
   solid.
   Step 1: Methyl 3-(2,2-dichloro-3-oxocyclobutyl)benzoate (1 b)
   To a 3-necked round bottomed flask, under a nitrogen atmosphere, fitted with a condenser, an
   overhead stirrer and pressure equalised dropping funnel was dissolved methyl 3-vinylbenzoate
   (5 g, 31 mmol) in dry Et 2 0 (150 mL). To this flask was added zinc dust (6 g, 3 eq) and the
   reaction was sonicated for 30 min. After this time a solution of trichloroacetylchloride (8.7 mL,
   2.5 eq) in dry Et 2 0 (50mL) was added dropwise whilst continuing the sonication over the next
 ) 30 min. During the process the reaction mixture was heated to 35*C. The sonication was
   continued for 2.5 h at reflux and the reaction appeared to be complete by 'H NMR analysis. The
   reaction was allowed to cool to rt and quenched with water (-50 mL). This was done in a
   dropwise manner interspersed sveral times by a few minutes since a delayed exothermic
   reaction occurred. After 20 min stirring in water the reaction mixture was filtered through a pad
 5 of celite and rinsed through with Et 2 0. The organic layer was washed with portions of water (2 x
   250 mL), saturated sodium bicarbonate (2 x 250 mL) and brine (1 x 250 mL), dried over sodium
   sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 1b as a
   dark yellow thick oil (crude 8.7 g).
   Step 2: Methyl 3-(3-oxocyclobutvl)benzoate (1c)
 ) Crude compound lb (8.7 g) was dissolved in glacial acetic acid (55 mL) in a round bottomed
   flask under a nitrogen atmosphere. To this flask was added zinc dust (4.6 g, 2.2 eq) and the
   reaction was stirred and heated to 1200C for 3 h. After cooling to rt the mixture was filtered
   though a pad of celite, this was washed with portions of EA. The combined solution was
   concentrated under reduced pressure before being dissolved in EA (500 mL), washed with brine
5  (150 mL x 2) and then dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated again. The crude
   mixture was stirred for 5 min in chloroform (250 mL) and filtered through a sintered funnel. The
   filtrate was concentrated to give the crude product as a pale yellow oil. The crude product was
   purified by CC in (PE/EA = 9:1, PE = petroleum ether) to give the desired product 1c (2.5 g,
   38% for 2 steps) as a pale yellow oil.
0  Step 3: Methyl 3-(3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
   VI)methoxy)phenyl)-3-hydroxvcyclobutyl)benzoate (1)
   To a stirring solution of compound 1a (1.67 g, 3.5 mmol) in dry THF (30 mL) was added n-BuLi
   (2.5 M in hexane, 1.2 eq, 1.69 mL) dropwise over 10 min at -78*C under a nitrogen
   atmosphere. This was stirred for 1 h at this temperature before adding a solution of compound
5  1c (0.72 g, 1 eq) in dry THF (10 mL) dropwise and stirred for 1 h at this temperature. The
   reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt slowly and left stirring overnight. The reaction was
   quenched with a solution of saturated ammonium chloride solution (50 mL) and EA (250 mL).

                                                -24
  The organic layer was separated and the aq. layer was washed with EA (2 x 100 mL). The
  combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated to give the
  crude product as a brown oil. The product was isolated following CC with PE/EA (19:1 to 3:1).
  The reaction and purification was repeated twice on the same scale and the combined product
  (3.13 g) was repurified under the same conditions to afford the final product 1 (1.7 g, 19%). 'H
  NMR (CDC 3 ): 7.93 (m, 1H), 7.90-7.85 (m, 1H), 7.50-7.30 (m, 5H), 6.88 (s, 1H), 6.75-6.72 (m,
  1H), 4.80 (s, 2H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 3.20-3.10 (m, 1H), 3.00-2.91 (m, 2H), 2.60-2.49 (m, 2H), 2.15
  2.08 (m, 1H), 1.30-1.25 (m, 2H), 1.15-1.10 (m, 2H).
  Example 2: 3-((1s,3s)-3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropvl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
  yl)methoxv)phenvi)-3-hydroxycvclobutylbenzoic acid (2)
                                                                0
                                               HO                    cl
                                     0            .        CI
                                  HO                 CI
  Compound 1 (1.7 g, 2.84 mmol) was dissolved in THF (100 mL) at rt. A solution of LiOH (285
  mg, 4.2 eq) in water (20 mL) was added and the solution was stirred and warmed to 350C for
  three days. After this time the THF was removed under reduced pressure. The remaining aq.
  solution was diluted with water (25 mL) and washed with Et 2O (2 x 50 mL). The aq. layer was
  then transferred to a round bottomed flask and acidified to pH 6 using 1N HCL. The formed white
  precipitated was filtered off and dried under reduced pressure at 500C to give title compound 2
0 (1.3 g, 78%, single isomer by 'H-NMR and LC-MS) as white solid. 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D)
  6: 7.98 (s, 1H), 7.86 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.58-7.46 (m, 5H), 7.41 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (d, J =
  2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.80 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 4.95 (s, 2H), 3.29-3.25 (m, 2H), 2.96 (m, 1H), 2.55
  2.49 (m, 2H), 2.37 (m, 1H), 1.24-1.22 (m, 4H). MS (ESI-) m/z: 584 (582) [M-1]-.
   Relevant intensive NOEs (obtained from the ROESY spectra; arrows below) indicate that the
5 two aromatic moieties are 1,3-trans oriented in Example 2.

                                                 - 25
                                          CO2H
                                            '3
                                               H       H
                                5 H                             Cl
                                             H     H     H
                                                 t 9  G16
  Alternative route to Example 2
  Step 1: 3-(3-Bromophenyl)cvclobutanone (2a)
  N,N-Dimethylacetamide (9.0 g, 103 mmol) was dissolved in 1,2-dichloroethane (200 mL). The
  solution was cooled to 00C before trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride (63 g, 223 mmol) was
  added. The reaction was stirred for an additional 60 min at 00C. Then 1-bromo-3-vinylbenzene
  (15 g, 81.9 mmol) and 2,4,6-collidine (10.5 g, 86.6 mmol) were added. The reaction was heated
  to reflux overnight, quenched by addition of water (300 mL) and stirred for 2 hr at rt. The mixture
  was extracted with DCM (300 mL x 3). The combined organic layers were dried over Na 2 SO 4
  and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by CC (EA/PE = 1:20) gave the title compound 2a (5.0
  g, 27%) as a pale yellow solid.
                                                                                             4
   Step 2: 3-(3-Bromophenyl)-1-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazo1-
  vl)methoxv)phenvl)cvclobutanol (2b)
   To a solution of compound la (14 g, 29.6 mmol) in dry THF (500 ml) at -78*C was added
   dropwise n-BuLi (18.5 mL, 1.6 M in hexane, 29.6 mmol). The mixture was stirred for an
   additional 1 h at -78*C and a solution of compound 2a (6.5 g, 28.9 mmol) in dry THF (50 mL)
   was added dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred at -78*C for 1 h and then warmed to rt
   and quenched with saturated aq. NH 4CI (500 mL). The mixture was extracted with EA (500 mL
0  x 2), the combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated
   in vacuo. The residue was purified by CC (EA/PE = 1:5) to give the title compound 2b (6.5 g,
   37%) as a white solid.
   Step 3: 3-(3-Cyanophenv)-1-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4
   yl)methoxy)phenyl)cyclobutanol (2c)
5  To a solution of compound 2b (3.1 g, 5 mmol) in DMF (50 mL) were added under argon
   atmosphere Zn(CN) 2 (500 mg, 4.3 mmol), Pd 2(dba) 3 (300 mg, 0. 33 mmol) and Xantphos (150
    mg, 0.31 mmol). The mixture was stirred for 10 h at 1150C under microwave irradiation. After
    cooling to rt the reaction mixture was diluted with water (250 mL) and extracted with EA (250 mL
    x 2). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (100 mL x 3) and dried over Na 2 SO 4 .

                                               - 26
  The residue was purified by CC (EA/PE) to give the title compound 2c (1.2 g, 42%) as a pale
  yellow solid.
  Step 4: 3-((1s.3s)-3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
  VI)methoxy)phenvi)-3-hydroxvcvclobutvl)benzoic acid (2)
  To a solution of compound 2c (15 g, 24.2 mmol) in EtOH (750 mL) was added aq. NaOH (40 g
  in 100 mL of water). The resulting mixture was heated to reflux overnight and then cooled to rt.
  The reaction was concentrated in vacuo to remove the volatile solvent, diluted with water (1000
  mL) and the pH was adjusted to 2 with diluted aq. HCI (1N). The formed precipitate was
  collected by filtration to give the crude product as a yellow solid (13.8 g). Purification by
  preparative preversed phase HPLC (RP-HPLC) afforded the title compound 2 (8.0 g, 56%,
  single isomer by 'H-NMR) as a white solid.
  Preparative Example 3
                                            0           N     0
  Step 1: Methyl 3-(3-hydroxvazetidin-1-yl)benzoate (3a)
  To a solution of methyl 3-iodobenzoate (4.5 g, 17.2 mmol) in DMSO (30 mL) was added 3
  azetidin-3-ol hydrogen chloride salt (1.3 g, 11.8 mmol), Cs 2 CO 3 (9.5 g, 29.2 mmol), Cui (446
  mg, 2.3 mmol) and L-proline (540 mg, 4.7 mmol) and then the mixture was heated at 900C for
   18 h under argon atmosphere. The solution was diluted with EA and water and the organic layer
  was washed with brine three times, concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by CC
  (PE/EA = 2:1) to give compound 3a (1.6 g, 66%) as a yellow solid.
  Step 2: Methyl 3-(3-oxoazetidin-1-yI)benzoate (3)
  To a solution of compound 3a (1.60 g, 7.7 mmol) in dry DCM (30 mL) was added Dess-Martin
  periodinane (6.5 g, 15.4 mmol) at 0*C and the mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h under N2
5 atmosphere. The mixture was quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and diluted
  with EA. The organic portion was washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated
  under reduced pressure and purified by CC (PE/EA = 4:1) to give compound 3 (1.2 g, 75%) as a
  white solid.
o Example 4: 3-((1s,3s)-3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4
  vI)methoxv)phenvl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)-N-(methylsulfonvl)benzamide (4)

                                               -27
                                                                  0
                                                               O'N
                                                HO    CCI
                                    H
  To the solution of compound 2 (100 mg, 0.17 mmol) in DCM (5 mL) were added EDCl-HCI (100
  mg, 0.52 mmol), DMAP (100 mg, 0.81 mmol) and MeSO 2 NH 2 (40 mg, 0.42 mmol). The mixture
  was stirred at 300C overnight and then diluted with EA and washed by H2 0, brine and dried over
  Na2 SO 4 . Concentration in vacuo and purification by prep-TLC gave crude target compound as a
  light yellow solid. RP-HPLC purification afforded the title compound 4 (38 mg, 33%) as a white
  solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6: 7.87 (s, 1H), 7.74 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.61-7.53 (m, 4H),
  7.50-7.46 (m, 2H), 6.91 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.80 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 4.95 (s, 2H), 3.38(s,
  3H), 3.30-3.26 (m, 2H), 3.01 (m, 1H), 2.57-2.51 (m, 2H), 2.37 (m, 1H), 1.25-1.23 (m, 4H). MS
  (ESI-) m/z: 659 [M-1]-.
  Example 5: 3-(3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
  vl)methoxy)phenyl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutvl)benzenesulfonamide (5)
                                                                 0
                                                          O        'N
                                                  OHi                 CI
                                                                 CCI
                                 H2NO2S               C1
5 Step 1: 3-(3-(Benzvlthio)phenyl)-1-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvi)isoxazol-4
  yI)methoxv)phenvl)cvclobutanol (5a)
  To a solution of compound 2b (619 mg, 1 mmol) in toluene (20 mL) under argon atmosphere
  were added K2CO 3 (276 mg, 2 mmol), phenylmethanethiol (125 mg, 1 mmol), Pd 2(dba)3 (200
  mg, 0. 22 mmol) and Xantphos (75 mg, 0.16 mmol). Then the mixture was stirred at 115"C for 4
0 h. After being cooled to rt, the reaction was diluted with water (100 mL) and extracted with EA
  (100 mL x 2). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (100 mL x 2), dried over
  Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to dryness. Purification by CC gave compound the compound 5a
  (200 mg; 30%) as a pale yellow solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC 3 ) 6: 7.36-7.32 (m, 3H), 7.28
  7.07 (m, 9H), 7.01 (d, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.0 Hz, 1H),
5 4.75 (s, 2H), 4.04 (s, 2H), 3.06-3.00 (m, 2H), 2.84-2.78 (m, 2H), 2.44-2.38 (m, 3H), 2.09 (m,
  1H), 1.24-1.18 (m, 2H), 1.11-1.08 (m, 2H). MS (ESI*) m/z: 662 [M+1]*.
  Step 2: 3-(3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyi-3-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4-yi)methoxy)phenyl)-3
  hydroxycvclobutvl)benzene- 1-sulfonyl chloride (5b)

                                                  - 28
   To a solution of compound 5a (34 mg, 0.05 mmol) in CH3CN/HOAc/H 20 (1 mL/37 pL/25 pL)
   was added 2,4-dichloro-5,5-dimethylhydantion (20 mg, 0.1 mmol). The mixture was stirred at 0
   5*C for 2 h. The reaction was diluted with water and extracted with CH20 2 . The combined
   organic layers were washed with a 5% NaHCQ 3 solution, brine and dried over Na2 SO 4 .
   Concentration to dryness afforded the crude product 5b (30 mg) as a colorless oil, which was
   used directly in the next step.
   Step 3: 3-(3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4-yl)methoxy)phenyl)-3
   hydroxvcvclobutl)benzenesulfonamide (5)
   To the solution of compound 5b (30 mg) in CH3CN (2 mL) was added NH40H (0.3 mL). The
   mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. Concentration to dryness and purification by prep. RP-HPLC
   gave the title compound 5 (3.5 mg, 10% for two steps) as a white solid. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl3 )  6: 7.85 (s, 1H), 7.77 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.54-7.41 (m, 5H), 7.35 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.90
    (s, 1H), 6.75 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.83 (s, 2H), 4.77 (s, broad, 2H), 3.20 (t, J = 10.4 Hz, 2H), 3.04
    (m, 1H), 2.58 (t, J = 10.6 Hz, 2H), 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.31-1.30 (m, 2H), 1.20-1.16 (m, 2H). MS (ESL)
    m/z: 617 [M-1]-.
    Example 6: 1-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cycloproovi-3-(2,6-dichloro~henyl)isoxazol-4-vi)methoxv)phenyl)
    3-(3-(methylsulfonvl)phenvl)cvclobutanol (6)
                                                                   0
                                                               oI    N
                                                 HO    |                CI
                                       0                 ci    C1
                                     Oi    K'            CI
0    To the solution of compound 2b (200 mg, 0.32 mmol) in DMSO, sodium methanesulfinate (50
     mg, 0.46 mmol), CuI (20 mg, 0.1 mmol), L-proline (37 mg, 0.32 mmol) and
     diisopropylethylamine (DIEA) (41 mg, 0.32 mmol) was added. The mixture was stirred at 950C
     overnight and then diluted with water and extracted with EA. The combined organic layers were
     washed with water and dried over Na2 SO 4 . Concentration to dryness under reduced pressure
5    and purification by prep. RP-HPLC gave the title compound 6 as a white solid (35 mg, 21%,
     single isomer by 'H NMR and LC-MS). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6: 7.84 (s, 1H), 7.79 (d, J =
     7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.60 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.44-7.41 (m, 3H), 7.34 (t, J = 7.2
     Hz, 1H), 6.90 (d, J = 2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.75 (dd, J = 8.4, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.83 (s, 2H), 3.24-3.19 (m, 2H),
     3.08-3.04 (m, 4H), 2.62-2.56 (m, 2H), 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.31-1.29 (m, 2H), 1.20-1.16 (m, 2H). MS
 0   (ESI+) m/z: 618 (620) [M+1]*, 600 (602) [M-H 20+1]*.

                                                - 29
  Example 7: Methyl 5-((1s,3s)-3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropvl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4
  yl)methoxv)phenyl)-3-hydroxvcyclobutyl)- 1-isopropyl-1 H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (7)
                                                  OH    \           N
                                    MeO2C             C        I      cl
                                          N-N
  Step 1: Methyl 1-isopropyl-5-vinyl-1 H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (7a)
5 A suspension of methyltriphenylphosphonium bromide (2.69 g, 7.52 mmol) in dry THF (40 mL)
  was cooled to -780C and n-butyllithium (1.6 M solution in hexane, 3.7 mL, 5.91 mmol) was
  added dropwise. The yellow-orange suspension was stirred at -780C for 50 min and then a
  solution of methyl 5-formyl-1-isopropyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (prepared as described in
  WO 2011/020615, 1.05 g, 5.37 mmol) in dry THF (10 mL) was added dropwise. The mixture
) was stirred at -780C for 1.75 h, the cooling bath was removed and the mixture (off-white
  suspension) was stirred at rt for 1 h. The mixture was then partitioned between diluted aq.
  NaHCO 3 solution (150 mL) and EA (150 mL). The aq. layer was extracted twice with EA (50 mL
  each) and the combined organic layer was washed twice with water (50 mL each) and
  concentrated without drying to give 2.74 g of a yellow oil which slowly crystallized. The crude
5 product was purified by CC (preadsorption with CH2Cl2, hexane/EA 4:1) to give alkene 7a
  (590 mg, 57%) as a colorless oil. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6 ) 6: 7.02 (s, 1H), 6.87 (dd, J = 17.3, 11.2
  Hz, 1H), 5.94 (dd, J = 17.3, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 5.45 (dd, J = 11.2, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 4.80 (sept, J = 6.6 Hz,
  1H), 3.79 (s, 3H), 1.38 (d, J = 6.6 Hz, 6H). C10 H1 4N20 2 (194.23). LC-MS (ESI): 195 [M+H]*.
  Step 2: Methyl 1-isopropyl-5-(3-oxocyclobutyl)-1 H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (7b)
) The reaction was performed in two dry sealed tubes (two batches of equal quantity). The
  batches were combined for workup and purification. Single batch procedure: To a solution of
  N,N-dimethylacetamide (0.22 mL, 2.34 mmol) in 1,2-dichloroethane (12 mL) under nitrogen at
  15 to -200C was added dropwise trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride (0.43 mL, 2.57 mmol),
  forming an opaque suspension. The mixture was stirred at -15 0 C for 10 min, and a solution of
5 alkene 7a (151 mg, 0.78 mmol) and sym.-collidine (0.42 mL, 3.12 mmol) in 1,2-dichloroethane
  (3 mL) was added dropwise (yellow solution formed). Upon completion of the addition the
  cooling was bath removed, the mixture was allowed to warm to rt (orange turbid solution) and
  the tube was sealed. The mixture was then stirred at 900C for 15 h (brown mixtures). Water
  (5 mL) was added at rt and the mixtures were stirred at 100*C for 2 h (turbid two-phase
0 solutions). After cooling to rt, the mixtures were combined and partitioned between diluted aq.
  NaHCO 3 solution and CH 2 Cl 2 and the aq. layer was extracted three times with CH 2 C 2 (30 mL
  each). The combined organic layer was dried (Na 2SO4), filtered and concentrated to give a
  brown oil (2.2 g). Purification by CC (6x13 cm, preadsorption with CH 2 CI 2 , toluene/EA 3:1) gave
  cyclobutanone 7b (115.5 mg, 31%) as a yellow oil. 'H NMR (DMSO-d) 6: 6.81 (s, 1H), 4.58

                                                - 30
   (sept, J = 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.85-3.73 (m, 1H), 3.59-3.45 (m, 2H), 3.37-3.24 (m, 2H,
   partially overlapped by water signal), 1.39 (d, J = 6.6 Hz, 6H). C 12 H16 N2 0 3 (236.27). LC-MS
   (ESI): 237 [M+H]*.
   Step 3: Methyl 5-((1s,3s)-3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
    I)methoxv)phenv[)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)- 1-isopropyl- 1H-ovrazole-3-carboxylate (7)
   A solution of bromide 1a (368 mg, 0.78 mmol) in dry THF (6 mL) was cooled to -78"C and a
   1.6M n-butyllithium solution in hexanes (0.48 mL, 0.76 mmol) was added dropwise. The mixture
   was stirred at -78*C for 20 min and a solution of cyclobutanone 7b (164 mg, 0.69 mmol) in dry
   THF (4 mL) was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at -78*C for 2.5 h and saturated aq.
 ) NH4 CI solution (1 mL) was added dropwise at this temperature. The cooling bath was removed
   and the mixture was allowed to warm to rt and stirred at rt for 0.5 h. The mixture was then
   added to diluted aq. NH 4 CI solution and extracted three times with EA. The combined organic
   layer was dried (Na2 SO4 ), filtered and concentrated to give 516 mg of an almost colorless oil.
   Purification by CC (4.5x23 cm, preadsorption with CH 2 Cl 2 , eluent hexane/acetone = 2:1)
 5 afforded recovered cyclobutanone 7b (31.3 mg, 19%, slightly yellow oil) and impure product
   (333 mg). Repurification by CC (4x22 cm, hexane/EA = 1:1) or prep-TLC gave pure product 7
   (210 mg, 48%) as white foam. 'H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ) 6: 7.65 (d, J = 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (s, 1H),
   7.59-7.48 (m, 2H), 6.92 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.76 (dd, J = 8.6, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (s, 1H), 5.49 (s,
   1H), 4.92 (s, 2H), 4.42 (quint-like m, J = 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 3.24-3.11 (m, 2H, partially
 ) overlapped by water signal), 3.04-2.90 (m, 1H), 2.54-2.33 (m, 3H, partially overlapped by DMSO
   signal), 1.32 (d, J = 6.5 Hz, 6H), 1.26-1.08 (m, 4H). C3 1 H30Cl3 N3 O5 (630.95). LC-MS (ESI): 630,
   632 (M+H]*.
   Example 8: 5-((1s,3s)-3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
5  vl)methoxv)phenvl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)- 1-isopropyl- 1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylic acid (8)
                                                                  0
                                     HO 2C         H      OCI      N ci
                                           N-N
   Ester 7 (98.3 mg, 0.156 mmol) was dissolved in a mixture of THF (7.5 mL), MeOH (2.5 mL) and
   water (2.5 mL) and LiOH-H 20 (65 mg, 1.56 mmol) was added at rt. The mixture was stirred at rt
   for 18 h. The mixture was partitioned between diluted aq. NH4 Cl solution and EA and the
0  organic layer was washed once with water. The combined aq. layer was extracted twice with
   EA. The combined organic layer was dried (Na2 SO4 ), filtered and concentrated to give 103 mg
   of an almost white solid. The product was purified by CC (3x3.5 cm, EA/EtOH = 10:1 to 1:4) to
   afford 8 (94.8 mg, 99%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ) 6: 7.66-7.60 (m, 1H), 7.62 (s, 1H),

                                                   - 31
   7.59-7.49 (m, 2H), 6.91 (d, J = 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.76 (dd, J = 8.6, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.38 (s, 1H), 5.51 (s,
   1H, exchangeable with D20), 4.92 (s, 2H), 4.31 (quint-like m, J = 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.25-3.08 (m, 2H,
   partially overlapped by water signal), 2.93-2.77 (m, 1H), 2.57-2.43 (m, 1H, hidden by DMSO
   signal), 2.43-2.29 (m, 2H, partially overlapped by DMSO signal), 1.29 (d, J = 6.5 Hz, 6H), 1.26
 5 1.08 (m, 4H). The CO 2 H signal does not appear in the spectrum. C3oH      28 Cl3 N3 O5 (616.92). LC
   MS (ESI): 616, 618 [M+H]*.
   Alternative route to Example 8
   Step 1: 1-(3-Methylenecyclobutvl)ethanone (8a)
 ) Methylene cyclobutane carbonitrile (5.0 g, 53.7 mmol) was dissolved in dry diethylether (25 mL),
   cooled in an ice bath and MeMgBr (26.8 mL, 80.5 mmol, 3 M in ether) was added dropwise. The
   mixture was left stirring overnight at rt, cooled to 00C, quenched carefully with 15% NaHSO 4 aq.
   sol. (100 mL). The mixture was stirred at rt for 30 min. and the layers were separated. The aq.
   phase was extracted with pentane (50 mL) and diethylether (50 mL). The combined organic
 5 layers were washed with brine and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvents were removed under
   vacuum at rt and the crude product was obtained as a yellowish liquid.
   Step 2: Ethyl 4-(3-methylenecyclobutyl)-2.4-dioxobutanoate (8b)
   Sodium (1.15 g, 49.9 mmol) was dissolved in dry EtOH (30 mL, denaturated with 5%
   diethylether). Compound 8a (5.5 g, 49.9 mmol, crude) was dissolved in dry EtOH (45 mL) and
 ) the above prepared sodium ethoxide solution was added. This mixture was stirred at rt for 15
   min and then diethyl oxalate (6.8 mL, 49.9 mmol) was added dropwise. The reaction mixture
   was placed in a pre-heated (to 67 0C) oil bath and stirred at this temperature for 4.5 h. The
   mixture was left at rt overnight. The solvent was removed, EA (100 mL) and 1 M HCI (70 mL)
   were added and organic phase was separated. The aq. phase was re-extracted with EA (50
5  mL). The combined organic phases were washed with water, brine and dried over anh. Na SO .
                                                                                                  2   4
   The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified on silica using
   hexanes/MTBE 9:1 as eluent giving pure product 8b. Yield: 6.29 g, 56% over two steps. 1H
   NMR (CDC13), 8 (ppm): 6.36 (s, 1H), 4.85-4.80 (m, 2H), 4.34 (q, J = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 3.35-3.25 (m,
   1H), 3.05-2.85 (m, 4H), 1.36 (t, J = 8.0 Hz, 3H).
0  Step 3: Ethyl 1-isoprovl-5-(3-methylenecyclobutyl)- 1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (8c)
   Compound 8b (6.29 g, 29.9 mmol) was dissolved in dry EtOH (65 mL, denaturated with 5% of
   MeOH) and isopropyl hydrazine hydrochloride (3.97 g, 35.9 mmol) was added. The reaction
   mixture was stirred for 3 h at rt. The solvent was removed and to the oily residue were added
   EA (100 mL), water (50 mL) and sat. NaHCO3 (50 mL) sequentially. The layers were separated
5  and the aq. phase was re-extracted with EA (50 mL). The combined organic phases were
   washed with brine (70 mL) and dried over anh. Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed under

                                                  - 32
   vacuum and the residue was dried under reduced pressure. Yield: 7.23 g (contains 3.4% of
   EtOAc by NMR, recalculated pure yield: 6.98 g, 94%). Crude product 8c is 98% pure by HPLC
   and NMR. 'H-NMR (CDC13),       8  (ppm): 6.62 (s, 1H), 4.88-4.82 (m, 2H), 4.42-4.32 (m, 3H), 3.56
   3.45 (m, 1H), 3.17-3.07 (m, 2H), 2.88-2.79 (m, 2H), 1.49 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 6H), 1.37 (t, J = 8.0 Hz,
   3H).
   Step 4: Ethyl 1-isopropyl-5-(3-oxocyclobutyl)- 1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (8d)
   Compound 8c (6.45 g, 26.0 mmol) was dissolved in a mixture of MeCN (77 mL) and water (13
   mL) and cooled in an ice-bath. To this solution RuCl 3 xH20 (0.19 g, 0.86 mmol) was added,
   followed by portion-wise addition of NaIO 4 (19.35 g, 90.9 mmol). An exotherm was observed
 ) during this addition. The obtained thick slurry was stirred at rt for 45 min. The reaction mixture
   was diluted with Na 2 S2 0 3 aq. sol. (10%, 260 mL), water (50 mL) and         DCM (100 mL). The
   phases were separated and the aq. phase was extracted with DCM (2x70 mL). The combined
   organic phases were washed with Na 2 S2 O 3 aq. sol. (10%, 50 mL), water (100 mL), brine (100
   mL) and dried over anh. Na 2SO 4 .The crude product (6.5 g) was purified on silica, eluting with
   hexanes/MTBE to give pure product as an oil that solidified upon storage at -20 0 C. Yield: 5.8 g
   (78% over two steps). 'H-NMR (DMSO-dQ), 8 (ppm): 6.78 (s, 1H), 4.57 (h, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.26
   (q, J = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 3.85-3.75 (m, 1H), 3.58-3.45 (m, 2H), 3.35-3.25 (m, 2H), 1.39 (d, J = 8.0 Hz,
   6H), 1.28 (t, J = 8.0 Hz, 3H).
    Step 5: 4-((4-Bromo-3-chlorophenoxy)methyl)-5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)isoxazole
   (8e)
   3-Chloro-4-bromophenol       (3.8   g,   18.3    mmol)  was    mixed   with   (5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6
   dichlorophenyl)isoxazol-4-yl)methanol (3.47 g, 12.2 mmol) and triphenylphosphine (6.41 g, 24.4
   mmol) in toluene (150 mL). The mixture was cooled in an ice-bath and DIAD (4.8 mL, 24.4
   mmol) as a solution in toluene (10 mL) was added drop-wise. The reaction was stirred at rt for
5  21 h and the solvents were removed on a rotavap leaving a yellow oily residue. This was
   dissolved in DCM (200 mL), silica (-20 g) was added and the mixture was evaporated to
   dryness. This material was loaded on the top of a silica column and purified eluting with
   hexanes/MTBE 9:1. The product containing fractions were pooled and the solvent removed
   under reduced pressure, leaving pure product 8e as a colourless oil that crystallized upon
0  drying under vacuum overnight. Yield: 5.07 g (88%).'H-NMR (CDC 3 ), S (ppm): 7.45-7.30 (m,
   4H), 6.90 (s, 1H), 6.60-6.55 (m, 1H), 2.15-2.07 (m, 1H), 1.32-1.25 (m, 2H), 1.20-1.11 (m, 2H).
   Step 6: Ethyl 5-((1s,3s)-3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cycloprop~vl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
   y)methoxy)phenvl)-3-hydroxycVclobutyl)- 1-isopropyl- 1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (8f)
   LiCI (0.684 g, 16.15 mmol) was dissolved in THF (20 mL) at rt and ,PrMgCI (2.0 M in THF, 8.1
5  mL, 16.15 mmol) was added. The mixture was stirred for 10 min at rt, cooled in an ice-bath and
   a solution of compound 8e (2.55 g, 5.38 mmol) in THF (20 mL) was added over 5 min. The
   cooling bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h. The mixture was cooled to -

                                                 - 33
  100C and a solution of compound 8d (1.48 g, 5.92 mmol) in THF (16 mL) was added rapidly.
  The mixture was stirred at rt for 90 min. and then 0.5 M NaHSO 4 aq. (35 mL) and EA (50 mL)
  were added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 10 min., the layers were separated and the
  aq. layer was extracted with EA (30 mL). The combined organic phases were washed with
  NaHCO 3 aq. (50 mL), brine (50 mL) and dried over anh. Na2 SO 4 . The crude product (3.79 g)
  was obtained after removal of the solvent as a white foam. 3.6 g of this crude was purified on
  silica column, eluting with hexanes/EA 3:2 to give pure product 8f as a solid foam. Yield: 1.62 g
  (49%). 'H-NMR (DMSO-d6), S (ppm): 7.65-7.47 (m, 4H), 6.93-6.91 (m, 1H), 6.79-6.72 (m, 1H),
  6.65 (s, 1H), 5.48 (s, 1H), 4.92 (s, 2H), 4.42 (h, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.26 (q, J = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 3.32 (s,
  2H), 3.22-3.14 (m, 2H), 3.05-2.90 (m, 1H), 2.45-2.35 (m, 2H), 1.35-1.10 (m, 14H).
  Step 7: 5-((1s.3s)-3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropvl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazo-4
  vl)methoxv)phenyl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)- 1-isopropyl- 1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylic acid (8)
  Compound 8f (1.60 g, 2.48 mmol) was dissolved in THF (100 mL), then MeOH (50 mL), water
  (50 mL) and LiOHxH20 (1.04 g, 24.8 mmol) were added sequentially. The mixture was stirred
  for 4.5 h at rt and then concentrated under reduced pressure to remove MeOH and THF. The
  remaining aq. solution was acidified by addition of 1 M HCI aq. (24 mL) to reach pH of 4.05 (pH
  electrode control). Already at approx. pH 7 a precipitate started to form. The formed solid was
  filtered off, washed on the filter with water and dried under vacuum at rt to give product 8 as a
  white powder. Yield: 1.40 g (92%). 1H-NMR (CDC13 ), S (ppm): 7.44-7.32 (m, 4H), 6.91 (d, J = 4.0
  Hz, 1H), 6.78 (s, 1H), 6.75 (dd, J = 4.0 Hz, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.83 (s, 2H), 4.35-4.20 (m, 1H),
  3.25-3.14 (m, 2H), 3.04-2.90 (m, 1H), 2.62-2.54 (m, 2H), 2.21-2.11 (m, 1H), 1.46 (d, J = 8.0 Hz,
  6H), 1.34-1.28 (m, 2H), 1.20-1.14 (m, 2H). 13C-NMR (CDC13), S (ppm): 172.7, 164.8, 159.2,
  158.4, 147.2, 141.3, 135.8, 134.1, 132.8, 131.3, 128.1, 127.6, 127.3, 117.7, 113.3, 110.0,
  106.3, 73.1, 59.8, 51.1, 41.7, 22.6, 22.0, 8.5, 7.8. MS (ESIl) m/z: 616.4 [M+1]*.
5
  Example 8A: 5-((1r,3r)-3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
  vl)methoxv)phenvl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)- 1-isopropyl- 1H-pyrazole-3-carboxylate (8A)
                                 HO2C                        ci        ci
                                         N--N
0 Example 8A can be prepared by subjecting the crude product 8f to the ester hydrolysis as
  described for 8 and isolation from the crude product 8 as a minor isomer by preparative RP
  HPLC. 'H-NMR (CDC 3 ), 8 (ppm): 7.42-7.30 (m, 2H), 7.11 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.75-6.65 (m, 1H),

                                                  - 34
    6.57 (s, 1H), 4.79 (s, 2H), 4.50-4.41 (m, 1H), 3.96-3.85 (m, 1H), 2.98-2.90 (m, 2H), 2.67-2.57
    (m, 2H), 2.20-2.09 (m, 1H), 1.51 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 6H), 1.32-1.14 (m, 4H). 13C-NMR (CDCl 3 ), 8
    (ppm): 172.6, 166.2, 159.2, 158.4, 147.4, 141.2, 135.7, 134.6, 132.8, 131.3, 128.1, 127.7,
    127.5, 116.8, 113.5, 110.0, 105.8, 75.1, 59.8, 51.2, 41.8, 25.4, 22.6, 8.5, 7.8. MS (ESI*) m/z:
    616.3 [M+1]*.
    The transannular configuration of the major isomer (compound 8) and the minor isomer
    (compound 8A) was confirmed by NOE experiments. The detected indicative NOEs between
    protons are indicated in the following pictures by double arrows:
   NOEs detected for example 8 with 1,3-trans transannular configuration of the aromatic moieties
  NOEs detected for example 8A with 1,3-cis transannular configuration of the aromatic moieties
    Example 9: Methyl 6-(3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropvl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
5   vl)methoxv)phenvi)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)- 1-methyl-1 H-indazole-3-carboxylate (9)

                                                -35
                                                                 0
                                                              O  /N
                                               HO       |            Cl
                                                            C/
                                      O              CI
                                      N-N
  Step 1: Methyl 1-methyl-6-vinyl-1 H-indazole-3-carboxylate (9a)
  To the solution of methyl 6-bromo-1-methyl-1H-indazole-3-carboxylate (60 mg, 0.22 mmol) in
  DMF (10 mL), tributyl(vinyl)tin (99 pL, 0.34 mmol), Pd(Ph3 ) 4 (11 mg, 9 pmol) was added. After
  the addition was completed, the mixture was stirred at 900C for 4 h under Ar. Then the solvent
  was removed under reduced pressure. Purification by CC afforded compound 9a (52 mg, 88%).
  Step 2: Methyl 1-methyl-6-(3-oxocyclobutyl)-1 H-indazole-3-carboxylate (9b)
  Following the procedure as described in Example 7/Step 2, compound 9b was obtained from 9a
  in 57% yield. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6: 8.14 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (s, 1H), 7.23 (d, J =
  8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.13 (s, 3H), 3.99 (s, 3H), 3.87-3.79 (m, 1H), 3.58-3.51 (m, 2H), 3.33-3.26 (m, 2H).
  m/z: 259 [M+1 ]*.
  Step 3: Methyl 6-(3-(2-chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2,6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
  vl)methoxy)phenyl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)-1-methyl-1 H-indazole-3-carboxylate (9)
  Following the procedure as described in Example 7/Step 3, compound 9 was obtained from 9b
  in 40% yield.
   Example 10: 6-(3-(2-Chloro-4-((5-cyclopropyl-3-(2.6-dichlorophenvl)isoxazol-4
  yl)methoxy)phenyl)-3-hydroxvcvclobutyl)-1 -methyl-1 H-indazole-3-carboxylic acid (10)
                                                                  0
                                                HO                    CI
                                                             Cl/
                                                      CI
                                   0      |
                                HO     N-N
0  Following the procedure as described in Example 8, compound 10 was obtained from
   compound 9 in 45% yield as a white solid.1 H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ) 6: 8.14 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H),
   7.48 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.43-7.32 (m, 4H), 7.29 (m, 1H), 6.92 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.76 (dd, J =
   7.2 Hz, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 4.84 (s, 2H), 4.18 (s, 3H), 3.45-3.40 (m, 1H), 3.28-3.23 (m, 2H), 3.19-3.10
   (m, 1H), 2.68-2.63 (m, 2H), 2.21-2.14 (m, 1H), 1.33-1.29 (m, 2H), 1.20-1.15 (m, 2H). m/z: 638
5  [M+1]+.

                                               - 36
  Preparative Example 11
                                             0
                                                     NJ
  Step1: Methyl 5-(3-hydroxyazetidin-1-vl)nicotinate (11a)
  A mixture of methyl 5-bromonicotinate (2.00 g, 9.26 mmol), azetidin-3-ol (1.01 g, 9.26 mmol),
  Cs 2 CO 3 (9.06 g, 27.8 mmol), BINAP (1.15 g, 1.85 mmol) and Pd(OAc) 2 (0.44 g, 1.85 mmol) in
  dry dioxane (115 mL) was heated overnight at 85 0 C under N2 atmosphere. The resulting mixture
  was filtrated, concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by prep-HPLC to give
  compound 11a (250 mg, 13%) of as a yellow solid.
  Step 2: Methyl 5-(3-oxoazetidin-1-vl)nicotinate (11)
  To a solution of compound 11a (250 mg, 1.20 mmol) in dry DCM (15 mL) was added Dess
  Martin periodinane (1.014 g, 2.40 mmol) at 00 C under N2 atmosphere and the solution was
  stirred at rt for 2 h. The resulting solution was quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate
  solution and diluted with EA. The organic portion was washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 ,
  filtered, concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by CC (DCM/MeOH = 150:1) to give
  compound 11 (140 mg, 57%) of as a yellow solid.
  Preparative Example 12
  Using a similar procedure as that described in Preparative Example 11 the following compound
0 has been prepared:
                                           0           N'ii
                                                    CN
                                                  12
  Example 13/1 to 13/9
  The following table lists further examples prepared according the above mentioned preparative
  examples and examples. All listed compounds were prepared as single isomers.
        #                 Structure                             Analytical data

                                                 - 37
  #              Structure                                             Analytical data
                                    o              'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6:1.15-1.25 (m, 4H),
                           o
                           0        /
                                        N          2.35-2.50 (m, 5H, partially under solvent signal),
                                                                   1H), 3.11-3.20 (m, 2H), 4.93 (s, 2H),
13/1             HO     1;   cI   /C      \ C1     6.72-6.81 (m,
                                                   2.80-2.91
                                                              (m, 1H), 6, 93 (s, 1H), 7.40-7.51 (m, 2H),
                        Ci                         7.52-7.60 (m, 2H), 7.62-7.66 (m, 2H), 7.85-7.90 (m,
      HO 2 C                                       2H). MS Calcd.: 583; MS Found: 584 [M+H]*.
                                    0
                           o        ,N             'H NMR (400 MHz, CD30D) 5: 1.05-1.12 (m, 4H),
                 HO                          C1    2.18-2.34 (mn,9H), 2.62-2.71 (mn,A1-H), 2.99-3.09 (mn,
13/2                          ci  /                2H), 4.78 (s, 2H), 6.60-6.64 (m, 1H), 6.72-6.78 (m,
                        c           -              1H), 6.85 (s, 2H), 7.30-7.42 (m, 4H). MS Calcd.:
                                                   611; MS Found: 612 [M+H]*.
                                    q               'H NMR (400 MHz, CD30D) 6:1.10-1.23 (m, 4H),
                           o        ,NJ            2.36-2.49 (m, 3H), 3.00-3.12 (m, 1H), 3.15-3.25 (m,
13/3             HO   I                      C     2H), 3.87 (s, 3H), 4.95 (s, 2H), 6.72-6.80 (m, 1H),
                              c'   /1     \        6.89 (s, 1H), 6.90-7.00 (m, 1H), 7.42-7.60 (m, 4H),
      HO 2C             Cl            -            7.89-7.93 (m, 1H), 7.98 (s, 1H). MS Calcd.: 613; MS
             A-l                                    Found: 612 [M-H]~.
                                                    'H NMR (400 MHz, CD30D) 6:1.20-1.30 (m, 4H),
                                                   2.27 (s, 3H), 2.30-2.55 (m, 3H), 2.98-3.10 (m, 1H),
                         1 o         'N            3.25-3.40 (m, 2H, partially under solvent signal),
                              CHOC                 4.95 (s, 2H), 6.76-6.84 (m, 1H), 6.91 (s, 1H), 7.20
      HO 2C             C             ,             7.25 (m, 1H), 7.43-7.63 (m, 4H), 7.75-7.82 (m, 1H),
                                                   8.03 (s, 1H). MS Calcd.: 597; MS Found: 596 [M-H]
                                                    SH NMR (400 MHz, CD30D) 6:1.20-1.25 (m, 4H),
                           o                       2.33-2.43 (m, 4H), 2.46-2.56 (m, 2H), 2.88-2.97 (m,
                  HO          C/             C1     1H) 3.22-3.30 (m, 2H), 4.94 (s, 2H), 6.78-6.82 (m,
1315  H2C               C      i           \        1H), 6.90 (s, 1H), 7.37 (s, 1H), 7.43-7.60 (m, 4H),
                                                    7.69 (s, 1H), 7.78 (s, 1H). MS Calcd.: 597; MS
                                                    Found: 596 [M-H]-.
                                     O              'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 300) 5:1.17-1.23 (m, 4H),
                            O       ,N              2.31-2.40 (m, 4H), 2.42-2.50 (m, 2H), 2.83-2.92 (m,
13/6              HO  I                      C1     1H) 3.19-3.26 (m, 2H), 4.92 (s, 2H), 6.74-6.80 (m,
                              CI    /               1H), 6.88 (s, 1H), 7.19-7.22 (m, 1H), 7.43-7.57 (m,
      HO  2C N          C1           -             4H), 7.83 (s, 1H). MS Calcd.: 597; MS Found: 598
                                                    [M+H]*.
                                         N          'H NMR (400 MHz, CD30D) 6: 1.09-1.11 (m, 4H),
                            0                       2.19-2.26 (m, 1H), 4.08-4.10 (m, 2H), 4.19-4.21 (m,
 13/7      0      HO           ci             c'    2H), 4.80 (s, 2H), 6.64-6.67 (m, 2H), 6.75 (s, 1H),
                 ON                                 7.16-7.21 (m, 2H), 7.28-7.39 (m, 6H); MS Calcd.:
                                                    584; MS Found: 585 (M+1).

                                                             -38
     #                      Structure                                               Analytical data
                                                               'H NMR (300 MHz, CDC3) 6: 1.11 (m, 2H), 1.24 (m,
                                                     N         2H), 2.11 (m, 1H), 4.33 (m, 2H), 4.46 (m, 2H), 4.78
                                        o                      (s, 2H), 6.67 (dd, J = 1.2Hz, 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.77 (d, J =
    13/8        0            HO           CI            C      2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.67 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.28-7.35 (m,
            HO             N       Cl              ,           3H), 7.55 (d, J = 1.2 Hz, 1H), 7.94 (s, 1H), 8.56 (d, J
                                                                   3.6 Hz, 1H); MS Calcd.: 585; MS Found: 586
                                                               (M+1).
                                                  O             'H NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6:1.13-1.23 (m, 4H),
                                        31o          N         2.50 (m, 1H), 4.23 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 4.51 (d, J =
    13/9          -           oc                               9.3 Hz, 2H), 4.96 (s, 2H), 6.24 (s, 1H), 6.80 (d, J
                SC1                              /             7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (s, 1H), 6.97 (s, 1H), 7.07 (s, 1H),
            HO                       1N           -            7.44 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.58-7.66 (m, 3H), 8.25 (s,
                      ...N                                      1H); MS Calcd.: 585; MS Found: 586 (M+1).
Example 14/1 and 14/2
Using a similar procedure as described in the Examples 1 to 13 and Schemes above, the
following compounds were obtained by using the appropriate building blocks.
     #                      Structure                                                Analytical data
                                                                 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 6 1.13-1.23 (m, 4H),
                                                       O          1.33 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 6H), 2.37-2.47 (m, 3H), 2.90
                                OH          0           N        2.95 (m, 1H), 3.14-3.19 (t, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 3.57 (d,
   1411                               -                          J = 4.0 Hz, 2H), 4.38 (m, 1H), 4.92 (s, 2H), 5.51 (s,
             HN                    Cl                C     Ci    1H ), 6.51 (s, 1H ), 6.76 (dd, J = 2.4 Hz, J = 8.4 Hz,
          O         N-N                                          1H), 6.91 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.51-7.58 (m, 2H),
             OH                                                  7.62-7.65 (m, 2H), 7.69 (s, 1H); MS Calcd.: 672; MS
                                                                 Found: 673 [M+H]*.
                                                                 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 1.13-1.20 (m, 4H),
                                                                 1.31 (d, J = 6.0 Hz, 6H), 2.36-2.47 (m, 3H), 2.59
               0               OH         0            N         2.63 (m, 2H), 2.89-2.93 (m, 1H), 3.17-3.19 (m, 2H),
   14/2                                     ci            c1     3.47-3.52 (m, 2H), 4.33-4.39 (m, 1H), 4.92 (s, 2H),
            HN                    c                              5.51 (s, 1H ), 6.50 (s, 1H ), 6.76 (dd, J = 2.4 Hz, J =
                    NN-~                             -           8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.51-7.58 (m,
          O= g-ONa                                               2H), 7.62-7.65 (m, 2H), 8.18-8.20 (m, IH); MS
             0                                                   Calcd.: 744; MS Found: 721 [M-Na]-.
                                                                 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 1.10-1.25 (m, 4H),
                                                   O             1.34 (d, J = 6.4 Hz, 6H), 3.03-2.95 (m, 1H), 2.50
                             OH                      N           2.30 (m, 3H), 3.20-3.10 (m, 2H), 4.50-4.35 (m, 1H),
   14/3                                  C1            cl        4.92 (s, 2H), 5.5 (s, 1H), 6.92 (s, 1H), 6.78-6.70 (m,
          HN        N                                            2H), 7.70-7.49 (m, 4H), 11.44 (s, 1H); MS Calcd.:
           "so2  N-N                           1                 694; MS Found: 695 (M+H]*.

                                                - 39
   The following compound can be prepared in the same manner by using similar procedures as
   described above:
                                  N-N              OHN~
                                    N                       CI        C
   Assays
 5 FRET activity assay
   Determination of a ligand mediated cofactor peptide interaction to quantify ligand binding to the
   nuclear receptor FXR was performed as follows: Preparation of human FXR alpha ligand
   binding domain: The human FXRalpha LBD was expressed in E. co/i strain BL21(DE3) as an N
   terminally GST tagged fusion protein. The DNA encoding the FXR ligand binding domain was
 ) cloned into vector pDEST15 (Invitrogen). Expression was under control of an IPTG inducible T7
   promoter. The amino acid boundaries of the ligand binding domain were amino acids 187-472
   of Database entry NM005123 (RefSeq). Expression and purification of the FXR-LBD: An
   overnight preculture of a transformed E.co/i strain was diluted 1:20 in LB-Ampicillin medium and
   grown at 30*C to an optical density of OD 60o=0.4-0.6. Gene expression was then induced by
 5 addition of 0.5 mM IPTG. Cells were incubated an additional 6 h at 30 0 C, 180 rpm. Cells were
   collected by centrifugation (7000 x g, 7 min, rt). Per liter of original cell culture, cells were
   resuspended in 10 mL lysis buffer (50 mM Glucose, 50 mM Tris pH 7.9, 1 mM EDTA and 4
   mg/mL lysozyme) and left on ice for 30 min. Cells were then subjected to sonication and cell
   debris removed via centrifugation (22000 x g, 30 min, 40 C). Per 10 mL of supernatant 0.5 mL
?0 prewashed Glutathione 48 sepharose slurry (Qiagen) was added and the suspension kept
   slowly rotating for 1 h at 40C. Glutathione 4B sepharose beads were pelleted by centrifugation
   (2000 x g, 15 sec, 40C) and washed twice in wash buffer (25 mM Tris, 50 mM KCI, 4 mM MgCl 2
   and 1M NaCI). The pellet was resuspended in 3 mL elution buffer per liter of original culture
   (elution buffer: 20 mM Tris, 60 mM KCI, 5 mM MgCl 2 and 80 mM glutathione added immediately
?5 prior to use as powder). The suspension was left rotating for 15 min at 40C, the beads pelleted
   and eluted again with half the volume of elution buffer than the first time. The eluates were
   pooled and dialysed overnight in 20 mM Hepes buffer (pH 7.5) containing 60 mM KCJ, 5 mM
   MgC   2 as well as 1 mM dithiothreitol and 10% (v/v) glycerol. The protein was analysed by SDS
   Page.
30 The method measures the ability of putative ligands to modulate the interaction between the
   purified bacterial expressed FXR ligand binding domain (LBD) and a synthetic biotinylated

                                                   - 40
   peptide based on residues 676-700 of SRC-1 (LCD2, 676-700). The sequence of the peptide
   used was B-CPSSHSSLTERHKILHRLLQEGSPS-COOH where the N-terminus was biotinylated
   (B). The ligand binding domain (LBD) of FXR was expressed as fusion protein with GST in BL
   21 cells using the vector pDEST15. Cells were lysed by sonication, and the fusion proteins
   purified over glutathione sepharose (Pharmacia) according to the manufacturers instructions.
   For screening of compounds for their influence on the FXR-peptide interaction, the Perkin Elmer
   LANCE technology was applied. This method relies on the binding dependent energy transfer
   from a donor to an acceptor fluorophor attached to the binding partner of interest. For ease of
   handling and reduction of background from compound fluorescence LANCE technology makes
   use of generic fluorophore labels and time resolved detection Assays were done in a final
   volume of 25 pL in a 384 well plate, in a Tris-based buffer (20 mM Tris-HCI pH 7.5; 60 mM KCI,
   5 mM MgC 2 ; 35 ng/pL BSA), containing 20-60 ng/well recombinantly expressed FXR-LBD
   fused to GST, 200-600 nM N-terminally biotinylated peptide, representing SRC1 aminoacids
   676-700, 200 ng/well Streptavidin-xiAPC conjugate(Prozyme) and 6-10 ng/well Eu W1024
   antiGST (Perkin Elmer). DMSO content of the samples was kept at 1%. After generation of the
   assay mix and diluting the potentially FXR modulating ligands, the assay was equilibrated for 1
   h in the dark at rt in FIA-plates black 384 well (Greiner). The LANCE signal was detected by a
   Perkin Elmer VICTOR2VTM Multilabel Counter. The results were visualized by plotting the ratio
   between the emitted light at 665 and 615 nm. A basal level of FXR-peptide formation is
 ) observed in the absence of added ligand. Ligands that promote the complex formation induce a
   concentration-dependent increase in time-resolved fluorescent signal. Compounds which bind
   equally well to both monomeric FXR and to the FXR-peptide complex would be expected to give
   no change in signal, whereas ligands which bind preferentially to the monomeric receptor would
   be expected to induce a concentration-dependent decrease in the observed signal.
   To assess the inhibitory potential of the compounds, EC50-values were determined for example
   compounds as listed below in Table 1 (A = EC50 < 25 nM; B = 25 s EC50 < 100 nM; C = EC50 a
   100 nM).
   Table 1
                        Group                         Example #
                           A      4, 8, 10, 13/8, 13/9, 14/1, 14/2
                           B      1, 2, 5, 6, 8A, 13/1, 13/3, 13/4, 13/5, 13/7
                           C      13/2, 13/6
0
   Mammalian one hybrid (M1IH) assay

                                                   -41
   Determination of a ligand mediated Gal4 promoter driven transactivation to quantify ligand
   binding mediated activation of FXR was performed as follows: The cDNA part encoding the FXR
   ligand binding domain was cloned into vector pCMV-BD (Stratagene) as a fusion to the yeast
   GAL4 DNA binding domain under the control of the CMV promoter. The amino acid boundaries
   of the ligand binding domain were amino acids 187-472 of Database entry NM_005123
   (RefSeq). The plasmid pFR-Luc (Stratagene) was used as the reporter plasmid, containing a
   synthetic promoter with five tandem repeats of the yeast GAL4 binding sites, driving the
   expression of the Photinus pyralis (American firefly) luciferase gene as the reporter gene. In
   order to improve experimental accuracy the plasmid pRL-CMV (Promega) was cotransfected.
)  pRL-CMV contains the constitutive CMV promoter, controlling the expression of the Renilla
   reniformis luciferase. All Ga14 reporter gene assays were done in HEK293 cells (obtained from
   DSMZ, Braunschweig, Germany) grown in MEM with L-Glutamine and Earle's BSS
   supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 0.1 mM nonessential amino acids, 1 mM sodium
   pyruvate, and 100 units Penicilin/Streptavidin per mL at 37 0C in 5% CO 2. Medium and
5  supplements were obtained from Invitrogen. For the assay, 5 x 105 cells were plated per well in
   96well plates in 100 pL per well MEM without Phenol Red and L-Glutamine and with Earle's
   BSS supplemented with 10% charcoal/dextran treated FBS (HyClone, South Logan, Utah), 0.1
   mM nonessential amino acids, 2 mM glutamine, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, and 100 units Penicilin/
   Streptavidin per mL, incubated at 37 *C in 5% CO 2 . The following day the cells were >90%
)  confluence. Medium was removed and cells were transiently transfected using 20 pL per well of
   a OptiMEM - polyethylene-imine-based transfection-reagent (OptiMEM, Invitrogen;
    Polyethyleneimine, Aldrich Cat No. 40,827-7) including the three plasmids described above.
    MEM with the same composition as used for plating cells was added 2-4 h after addition of
   transfection mixture. Then compound stocks, prediluted in MEM were added (final vehicle
5  concentration not exceeding 0.1%). Cells were incubated for additional 16 h before firefly and
    renilla luciferase activities were measured sequentially in the same cell extract using a Dual
    Light-Luciferase-Assay system (Dyer et al., Anal. Biochem. 2000, 282, 158-161). All
   experiments were done in triplicates.
   To assess the FXR agonistic potency of the example compounds, potency ranges were
W0 determined in the M1H assay as listed below in Table 2 (A = EC50 < 25 nM; B = 25 s ECs0 < 100
    nM; C = ECso a 100 nM).
    Table 2
                      Group                            Example #
                        A        13/4, 13/5, 13/6
                        B        2,8, 8A, 10, 13/1, 13/3, 13/7

                                                 - 42
                       C      1, 4, 5, 6, 13/2, 13/8, 13/9,14/1
  Aqueous solubility assay
  The aq. solubility in PBS, pH 7.4 was determined as follows. A 10 mM compound stock solution
  in DMSO was added to PBS (pH 7.4) to reach a theoretical final concentration of 200 pM. The
  resulting solution/suspension was shaken at 1250 rpm for 1 h and then stored in the dark at rt
  for 23 h. At this time any precipitate is separated from the solution by centrifugation at 3900 rpm
  for 30 min. The aq. solubility was determined by comparing the peak area of the principle peak
  in a calibration standard (200 pM) in an organic solvent (methanol/water 60:40, v/v) with the
  peak area of the corresponding peak in the buffer sample. As detection method was used
) HPLC-UVNIS at 230 nm.
  Parallel Artificial Membrane Permeation Assay (PAMPA)
   For the PAMPA, 5 mM stock solutions of test items were prepared in DMSO. 5 mM stock
  solutions of reference items were prepared in EtOH (carbamazepine, guanabenz) or in
5  EtOH:H 20 1:1 (v/v) (ceftriaxone), respectively. Compounds were diluted in PBS (pH 7.4) to
   obtain the starting solutions containing 5% of the respective organic solvent and 250 pM
   reference compounds or 10 pM test items, respectively. For the assay, a modified procedure of
  the PAMPA as described by Kansy et al. Kansy et al. (J. Med. Chem. 1998, 41, 1007) was
   used. The reference compounds for low (ceftriaxone), medium (guanabenz) and                    high
)  permeation (carbamazepine) were included as internal controls.
   Permeation experiments were carried out in a Multiscreen 96 well tray (donor) covered by a
   96-well Multiscreen Immobilon (acceptor). The hydrophobic filter material of the Immobilon plate
   was pre-wetted with 70% ethanol and treated with a solution of lipids (lecithin dissolved in
   dodecane). The donor plate was filled with test compounds and reference compounds and both
5  plates were inserted into each other and placed onto an orbital shaker for 15 min at 100 rpm.
   The transport study was started by applying 150 pL PBS-buffer containing the test and
   reference compounds to the donor plate. After 15 - 16 h of diffusion at rt, the contents of the
   acceptor and donor plate were colected and quantified using LC/MS-detection (test items) or by
   UV spectroscopy using a Spectramax Plus" 4 (Molecular Devices) (reference items). The
0  absorption maxima for the reference items ceftriaxone, guanabenz and carbamazepine were
   240 nm, 270 nm and 286 nm, respectively. Recovery samples were prepared as described for
   the permeation assay samples and were incubated in representative vials during the
   permeation period under the same conditions.
   For LC/MS analysis of the test items, 100 pL incubate were removed from acceptor and donor
5  compartment     and    processed for acetonitrile    (ACN)   precipitation as described     below.
   Additionally, test item samples from the lipid layer were extracted by flushing each well two

                                                - 43
  times with 150 pL EA. The solutions were collected in 1.5 mL reaction tubes and the solvent
  was evaporated. The dried residues were resuspended in a PBS/DMSO/ACN mixture reflecting
  the composition of the acceptor and donor samples (i.e. 100 pL buffer supplemented with 5%
   DMSO, 200 pL ACN+ISTD). The final solvent content of each sample was 66% ACN.
   Samples from donor and acceptor compartments and calibration standards were precipitated by
   addition of 200 pL ACN/ISTD or 400 pL ACN/ISTD, respectively. After vigorous shaking
   (10 seconds) and centrifugation (5 min at 4800 x g, rt), the particle free supernatants were
   subjected to LC-MS/MS. Membrane compartments were extracted as described above. After
   reconstitution, samples were vigorously shaken (10 seconds) and spun down (5 min at 4800 x
   g, rt). The particle free supernatants were subjected to LC-MS/MS.
   For analysis of compounds under the present invention, the HPLC system consisted of an
   Accela U-HPLC pump and an Accela auto sampler (Thermo Fisher Scientific, USA). Mass
   spectrometry was performed on an Exactive mass spectrometer (orbitrap technology with
   accurate mass) equipped with an heated electrospray (H-ES12) interface (Thermo Fisher
    Scientific, USA) connected to a PC running the standard software Xcalibur 2.1.
   The LC was performed in the gradient mode (Table 3) using ACN/0.1% formic acid as organic
    phase (A) and 10 mM ammonium formate/0.1% formic acid as aq. phase (B); and the pump flow
    rate was set to 500 pL/min. Separation was performed on a Gemini C6-Phenyl, 3 pm, 50x2.0
    mm (Phenomenex, Germany) analytical column with a pre-column (Gemini C6-Phenyl, 3 pm,
    4x2.0 mm).
    Table 3: HPLC gradients
      Mobile phase         0 min      0.1 min      1.2 min         2.6 min   2.7 min        3.5 min
            A (%)             5           5           97             97          5              5
            B (%)            95          95            3              3         95             95
    As MS tune file a generic tune file was used for all analytes applying the positive or negative ion
5   mode.      As  lock    mass  for  internal  mass     calibration   the [M+H]*  ion   of   diisooctyl
    phthalate(m/z 391.28429), which is ubiquitously present in the solvent system, was used.
    Analyte was acquired by scanning 1 Thomson around the expected mass of the monoisotopic
     [M+H]* or [M-H]~ ion. The mass resolution of the Orbitrap was set to 50,000. The accurate mass
    of each analyte was used for peak integration. Further instruments settings were as follows:
0    HCD-Gas off, AGC high dynamic range, max. trap injection time 100 ms, sheath gas 30, aux
     gas 8, sweep gas 2, spray voltage 4 kV, capillary temperature 250'C, ESI 2 heater temperature
     250 0 C.

                                                     - 44
The objective of the present invention was to generate FXR-agonists with improved physico
chemical properties compared to compounds claimed in WO 2011/020615. This was achieved
by the introduction of a polar hydroxyl group on a 1,3-cyclobutylidene or 1,3-azetidinylidene
group replacing the former 1,2-cyclopropylidene ring.
                                                                                OH
       R'A                             Z                               /A-Y      Q-O
                                                                     R               \Q-Z
Surprisingly, the resulting compounds maintained their activity on the FXR receptor but
demonstrated improved physico-chemical properties, such as higher aq. solubility and/or
membrane permeability. A direct comparison of the corresponding compounds of the two series
is given in Table 4.
Table 4
                                                   Aqueous           PAMPA,             clogD
                 Structure                         solubility  Membrane permeability (ChemAxon
                                                 (PBS, pH 7.4)      in % Flux *       software)
                                  0
    o                               NC              20 pM               13.6              5.1
 HO     *'()"               CI
                    CI
                                     0
                           O         /N
               HO              C1          Cl       192 pM              24.0              4.4
 HO                    CI
                                     0
                                0      N
                HO             C1                   195 pM              n.d.**            4.4
 HO           N        C
                                       0
                            0           /N
                                                     72 pM              20.7              5.2
                                  cl          cI
 HO                     C1

                                                - 45
                                              Aqueous               PAMPA,               clogD
                 Structure                    solubility    Membrane permeability     (ChemAxon
                                            (PBS, pH 7.4)          in % Flux *          software)
                                    0
                               0 1 'N
                HO    |                 Cl
                              ci   /           192 pM                  21.1                4.5
                         cC
  HO
       0
     0                        ci               158 pM                  28.9                4.2
        H.
  H       N-N           cI         O
                                 O   /N
                      HO      C1        C
                                     0
                HO                      C
         o                         /l          171pM                   46.1                3.5
                         c
  HO      .N
  * Flux (%) = (c acceptor well) / sum (c donor well + c acceptor well) x 100 x 2
  ** n.d. = not determined
  In each case either the aqueous solubility or the PAMPA membrane permeability or both are
  significantly improved by the introduction of the hydroxy-cyclobutyl or hydroxy-azetidyl moiety.
  As most nuclear receptor active molecules, FXR agonists are generally very lipophilic (M. L.
5 Crawley, Expert Opin. Ther. Patents 2010, 20, 1047). Therefore, better aqeous solubility and
  membrane permeability are supposed to result in a higher oral bioavailability and in general in a
  better suitability for clinical development of those compounds as drugs (L. Huang, J. Dong, S.
  Karki in Evaluation of drug candidates for preclinical development (Eds. C. Han, C. B. Davis, B.
  Wang), Wiley & Sons, Hoboken 2010, 187-217).

                                                46
CLAIMS
1.     A tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane salt of the following compound:
                                                                O
                                                       0         'N
                                          HO                         C
                           HO     N-N
2.     A tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane salt of the following compound:
                                                                0
                                                              0   N
                                                          C1         CI
                              SHO
                             H0                    C       I
                           HO          NN          CI
3.     Use of the compound according to claim 1 or 2 for the preparation of a medicament for
the prophylaxis and/or treatment of Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH).
4.     Use of the compound according to claim 1 or 2 for the preparation of a medicament for
the prophylaxis and/or treatment of Primary Biliary Cirrhosis (PBC).
5.     Use of the compound according to claim 1 or 2 for the preparation of a medicament for
the prophylaxis and/or treatment of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis (PSC).
                                     Gilead Sciences, Inc.
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

