Abstract
The Stroh Energy Converter (SEC) is a new machine for
generating, accelerating, and converting fluid kinetic energy
into useful electric energy for human consumption. It
overcomes the primary downside of traditional wind generated
energy by eliminating the dependence on naturally occurring
wind. Like wind energy, it can generate electricity without
any generating greenhouse gas emissions. It can utilise any
difference in pressure between two distinct areas, including
layers of the atmosphere or on different sides of a wall or
structure, man-made or naturally occurring structure. It may
also function in areas of comparable pressure but only when
wind is blowing over one of the openings. Its functioning is
assisted by Bernoulli's Principal and its shape is optimised
to take advantage of the Second Law of Thermodynamics and the
Law of Continuity. Bernoulli's principle assists the design in
generating flow as it states that an increase in speed of a
fluid occurs simultaneously with a decrease in pressure. So,
when a fluid moves at a higher velocity over the smaller
opening, it will create a low-pressure area that draws in the
higher-pressure fluid at the other opening and generates a
flow of fluid (liquids or gas). The Law of Continuity states
that the rate at which mass enters a system is the same as the
rate at which mass leaves a system. If a tube decreases in
diameter and a fluid is entering at a constant rate, then the
fluid would increase in speed as the tube decreases in
diameter. The shape of the structure takes advantage of these
three laws of physics with its cone-like shape with convex,
inwards facing walls that accelerate the fluid inside.

rMN Go L VO If'%. to
      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
As demonstrated in figure    1, the two holes are placed vertically in
relation to each other as this is the only way to utilise
Bernoulli's principle and the second law of thermodynamics to
generate flow of fluid    (liquid or gas).  In most cases the most
significant pressure differences    in the ocean and atmosphere occur
above and below each other. These pressure differences     cause the
higher-pressure liquid or air to disperse in the direction of the
low-pressure air and cause the flow of fluid. The structures
demonstrated in FIG 1 and 3 create and use this     flow. Now referring
to figure one in isolation, the opening hole     4, is larger than the
exit hole 1,  it narrows in an inward facing convex    fashion 3.  This
aims to streamline and accelerate the flow     (eg of air) in a vertical
direction which will cause the turbine 2 to     spin faster. The size of
these two holes  is variable and the position relative to each other
can also be vertically inverted, with the smaller hole     above or
below the larger hole. This may be used in other circumstances where
the pressure is greater higher up and lesser further down. The only
requirement is for lower pressure to exist outside the smaller
opening relative to the pressure of     fluid outside of the larger
opening. In each case the flow is    from the larger opening to the
smaller  (exit) opening.
Referring to figure 2,   a propeller-driven electric generator 3 is
placed inside the structure towards the exit hole 4, and the fluid
or air will blow over the propellers, causing them to turn. The
propeller is placed towards the exit hole because     of the increased
velocity of the fluid due to the shape of the structure, as derived
from the Law of Continuity. The velocity of the air within the
structure is increased because of the law of continuity, in context
it means that as the space the air passes through decreases, if the
pressure remains constant the velocity must increase. Due     to the
acceleration of the fluid inside the chamber of the structure the
flow created will overcome the friction of the propeller and cause
it to turn.

The structure shown in FIG 3 can also be changed in multiple ways.
Primarily, the number of layers used can changed. Each of the layers
in FIG 3 resembles FIG 1. The key requirement  is that the collective
area of the entry holes 4,  6 is larger than the area of the exit
hole 5 and the bounding structure curves in an inward facing convex
fashion 7. In the structure shown in FIG 3 fluid or air is both
blown and drawn into the structure through the sidewards openings
and directed upwards by its walls while simultaneously employing
Bernoulli's Principle and the second law of thermodynamics to drag
the fluid or air into the smaller exit hole. Just as in FIG 1, the
structure in FIG 3 has a propeller-driven electric generator 2
placed towards the final  exit hole 1. This propeller-driven electric
generator 2 fulfils the same purpose as that used in the structure
in FIG 1 and is used in the same way.
Referring now to FIG 3,  it may be seen that there is a variable
plurality of smaller opening holes 4 whose  combined diameter is
greater than that of the single, final exhaust hole 1.  The purpose
of this is to draw in wind from different directions or pressures
and different wind speeds  funnelling up and combining the kinetic
energy of the different winds to generate a greater total of kinetic
energy. This wind will then blow past a propeller driven electric
generator 2 placed at or above the culmination of the small funnels
8 to convert this kinetic energy into useful  electric energy. The
entry holes may have closable  doors. The opening holes 4, 6 for this
iteration may face horizontally or vertically to assist in
converting horizontal wind to vertical wind along with using the
pressure differences between the two areas, but the exhaust hole   1
must be facing vertically. The exhaust must be placed like this to
use horizontal winds and different pressures to create vertical wind
flow. The horizontal winds are converted to vertical winds due to
the shape of the structure.  They are funnelled upwards by the
increasingly inclined plane  of the walls of the structure. Point 3
of FIG 3 shows this steepening shape. The law of continuity assists
the structure in FIG 3 as all  smaller openings funnel into the
larger central structure. Meanwhile the net diameter of the

structure is constantly decreasing, this has the effect of
increasing the velocity of the fluid or wind. This increased
velocity will assist in surpassing the threshold of movement for the
generator. This increases the amount of time that it is generating
energy and decreasing the amount of horizontal wind necessary to
start turning the turbine.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims
An apparatus used to convert kinetic energy or any fluid into
electric power or heat energy, comprised of:
   " An enclosed walled structure containing one opening at
     one end and one or more openings that have a collectively
     greater total square area than the square area relative
     to the first opening with each opening or set of openings
     placed at a vertical distance from each other and
     vertically in relation to the centre of gravity of the
     body on which it is placed.
   " The aforementioned top and bottom openings must, at some
     point, be connected by a narrowing, inwards facing convex
     wall or structure, that is circular or elliptical from a
     top-down view.
   * One or more wind turbines for converting the flow of the
     fluid into electrical or heat energy. These devices are
     placed at or above the point of convergence of the
     channels whose collective entrance holes have a greater
     area than the exit hole.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
