                          ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
          A quick-release structure for a grease gun includes: a cylinder including a
peripheral wall and a fixing groove formed in an insertion section of the peripheral
wall; the grease gun including an outer surface, an insertion hole, a slot formed in
the outer surface and in communication with the insertion hole, the cylinder is
inserted in the insertion hole and the fixing groove is aligned to the slot; a locking
member inserted through the slot and into the fixing groove; a base fixed to the outer
surface; an elastic member disposed between the base and the locking member; a
press member including a press section and a drive section, the drive section is
drivingly connected to the driven portion and to be pressed by a user; and a
restricting member mounted on the base, and the press section of the press member
leans against the restricting member.
                                           13

                  7/7
                        40
              700
       401
    81
                        42
 92
83 512  50
                        402
           30
                  FIG.7

Our Ref: 79441nno
                                                                     P/00/009
                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                AUSTRALIA
                               Patents Act 1990
         INNOVATION SPECIFICATION FOR AN INVENTION ENTITLED
Name of Applicant:   Shuoxing Metal Products (Kunshan) Co. Ltd.
Invention title:     Quick Release Structure For a Grease Gun
Address for Service  A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                     PO Box 833
                     Blackwood, S.A. 5051
The invention is described in the following statement:
                                       1

              QUICK-RELEASE STRUCTURE FOR A GREASE GUN
                       BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
          The present invention relates to a grease gun, and more particularly to a
quick-release structure for a grease gun.
Related Prior Art
         A grease gun 10 must be used in combination with a cylinder 20, as shown
in Fig. 1, and has an insertion hole provided with an inner thread 11 for meshing
with an outer thread 21 of the cylinder 20, so as to fix the cylinder 20 to the grease
gun 10. When the grease in the cylinder 20 is used up, the user has to rotate the
cylinder 20 to release it from the grease gun 10.
         However, the cylinder 20 is screwed to the grease gun 10, it will take time
for the user to unscrew the cylinder 20 from the grease gun 10, which results in
inefficient replacement of the cylinder 20.
         In view of this, it is necessary to provide a quick release structure for the
grease gun so that the user can quickly remove the cylinder 20 from the grease gun
10.
          The present     invention  has   arisen to  mitigate   and/or   obviate  the
afore-described disadvantages.
                                      SUMMARY
          The technical problem to be solved by the utility model is to provide a
quick-release structure for a grease gun, which solves the problem that it takes a lot
of time to remove the cylinder from a conventional grease gun, and thus improving
                                            2

the efficiency of cylinder replacement.
          To solve the above problem, a quick-release structure for a grease gun
provided by the invention, comprises:
          a cylinder including a peripheral wall, an insertion section on the peripheral
wall, and a fixing groove formed in the insertion section;
          the grease gun including an outer surface, a bottom surface and an insertion
hole formed in the bottom surface, wherein a slot is formed in the outer surface and
in communication with the insertion hole, the insertion section is inserted in the
insertion hole, the fixing groove is aligned to the slot;
          a locking member including a first end surface and an opposite second end
surface, and being inserted in the slot until the first end surface is engaged in the
fixing groove, the second end surface including a driven portion and a positioning
portion;
          a base fixed to the outer surface, and including a rib and a block, the block
includes an abutting surface facing toward the second end surface, and an opposite
front surface, the abutting surface is located a distance away from the second end
surface;
          an elastic member disposed between the positioning portion of the second
end surface and the abutting surface;
          a press member including a press section and a drive section connected to
the press section, the drive section is drivingly connected to the driven portion and to
be pressed by a user; and
          a restricting member including a fixing section and a restricting section
                                             3

connected to the fixing section, the fixing section is mounted on the front surface, so
that the press member is located between the restricting member and the locking
member, and the press section of the press member leans against the restricting
section.
           Preferably, the peripheral wall has a cylindrical shape, the fixing groove is
an annular groove surrounding the peripheral wall, the outer surface is connected to
the bottom surface, and the slot is an elongated slot extending in an extending
direction of the fixing groove.
           Preferably, the first end surface of the locking member is arc-shaped so as
to fit in the fixing groove.
           Preferably, there are two said positioning portions and two said blocks, the
two blocks are connected to two ends of the rib, the rib is located between the two
blocks, there are two said elastic members, one of the two elastic members is
disposed between one of the two blocks and one of the two positioning portions, and
another of the two elastic members is disposed between another of the two blocks
and another of the two positioning portions.
           Preferably, there are two said blocks, the two blocks are connected to two
ends of the rib, the rib is located between the two blocks, the restricting member is
an elongated member, and there are two said fixing sections, so that the restricting
section is located between the two fixing sections, and the two fixing sections are
fixed on the two blocks, respectively.
           Preferably, two screws are used to fix the two fixing sections to the two
blocks, and fix the base to the slot of the grease gun.
                                             4

         By arrangements, the quick-release structure for a grease gun in accordance
with the invention allows users to quickly disassemble and assemble the cylinder and
the grease gun, thereby improving the operation efficiency and making the operation
smoother.
         These together with other objects of the invention, along with the various
features of novelty which characterize          the invention, are pointed out with
particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure. For a
better understanding of the invention, its operating advantages and the specific
objects attained by its uses, reference should be had to the accompanying drawings
and descriptive matter in which there are illustrated preferred embodiments of the
invention.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Fig. 1 is a cross sectional view of a conventional grease gun with a cylinder;
         Fig. 2 is a perspective view of a grease gun with a quick-release structure in
accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention;
         Fig. 3 is an exploded view of the quick-release structure for a grease gun in
accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention;
         Fig. 4 is a magnified view of a part of the quick-release structure for a
grease gun in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention;
         Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view taken along the line 5-5 of Fig. 4;
         Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view taken along the line 6-6 of Fig. 4; and
         Fig. 7 is a cross sectional view of a grease gun with a quick-release
structure in accordance with another preferred embodiment of the invention.
                                            5

                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           The present invention will be clearer from the following description when
viewed together with the accompanying drawings, which show, for purpose of
illustrations only, the preferred embodiment in accordance with the present
invention.
          Referring to Figs. 2-7, a quick-release structure for a grease gun 40 in
accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention comprises: a cylinder 30,
the grease gun 40, a locking member 50, a base 60, an elastic member 70, a press
member 80 and a restricting member 90.
           The cylinder 30 includes a peripheral wall 31, an insertion section 311 on
the peripheral wall 3 1, and a fixing groove 32 formed in the insertion section 311.
          In this embodiment, the peripheral wall 31 has a cylindrical shape, and the
fixing groove 32 is an annular groove surrounding the peripheral wall 31.
           The grease gun 40 includes an outer surface 401, a bottom surface 402 and
an insertion hole 41 formed in the bottom surface 402. The outer surface 401 is
connected to the bottom surface 402. A slot 42 is formed in the outer surface 401
and in communication with the insertion hole 41. The insertion section 311 of the
cylinder 30 is inserted in the insertion hole 41, and the fixing groove 32 of the
cylinder 30 is aligned to the slot 42.
          In this embodiment, the outer surface 401 is connected to the bottom
surface 402, and the slot 42 is an elongated slot extending in an extending direction
of the fixing groove 32.
           The locking member 50 includes a first end surface 501 and an opposite
                                            6

second end surface 502, and is inserted in the slot 42 until the first end surface 501 is
engaged in the fixing groove 32. The second end surface 502 includes a driven
portion 51 and a positioning portion 52.
         In this embodiment, the first end surface 501 of the locking member 50 is
roughly arc-shaped so that it can tightly and closely fit in the fixing groove 32.
         The positioning portion 52 is a circular recess formed in the second end
surface 502, and there are two positioning portions 52 in this embodiment.
         The driven portion 51 is located between the two positioning portions 52,
and includes two positioning protrusions 511 protruding from the second end surface
502 and a pivot 512 connected between the two positioning protrusions 511.
         The base 60 is fixed to the outer surface 401, and includes a rib 61 and a
block 62. The block 62 includes an abutting surface 621 facing toward the second
end surface 502, and an opposite front surface 622. The abutting surface 621 is
located a distance away from the second end surface 502. The block 62 further
includes a locking hole 63.
         In this embodiment, there are two blocks 62 connected to two ends of the
rib 61, and the rib 61 is located between the two blocks 62.
         The elastic member 70 is disposed between the positioning portion 52 of the
second end surface 502 and the abutting surface 621.
         In this embodiment, there are two elastic members 70, one is disposed
between one of the blocks 62 and one of the positioning portions 52, and the other is
disposed between another of the blocks 62 and another of the positioning portions
52.
                                            7

          The press member 80 is abutted against the rib 61, and includes a press
section 81 and a drive section 82 connected to the press portion 81. The drive section
82 is drivingly connected to the driven portion 51 and to be pressed by a user.
         In this embodiment, the drive section 82 includes a pivot hole 83 extending
along the pivot 512, and the pivot 512 is pivotally inserted in the pivot hole 83.
          The restricting member 90 includes a fixing section 91 and a restricting
section 92 connected to the fixing section 91. The fixing section 91 is mounted on
the front surface 622, so that the press member 80 is located between the restricting
member 90 and the locking member 50, and the press section 81 of the press
member 80 leans against the restricting section 92.
         In this embodiment, the restricting member 90 is an elongated member, and
there are two fixing sections 91, so that the restricting section 92 is located between
the two fixing sections 91, and the two fixing sections 91 are fixed on the two blocks
62, respectively.
         Preferably, the quick-release structure for a grease gun in accordance with
the invention further includes two screws A for fixing the two fixing sections 91 to
the two blocks 62. Meanwhile, the two screws A also fix the base 60 to the slot 42 of
the grease gun 40.
         What mentioned above are the structural relations of the invention, and the
operation of the invention is explained as follows in conjunction with Figs. 4-6.
         Referring first to Figs. 4 and 5, under normal conditions, the two elastic
members 70 are pressed between the second end surfaces 502 and the abutting
surfaces 621, so that the locking member 50 is pushed towards the cylinder 30 and
                                            8

into the fixing groove 32 to prevent disengagement of the cylinder 30 from the
grease gun 40.
         Referring then to Fig. 6, when the user pushes the press section 81 of the
press member 80 to move it towards the outer surface 401 of the grease gun 40,
since the press member 80 is abutted against the rib 61, the drive section 82 will be
caused to move away from the grease gun 40. Meanwhile, the drive section 82 pulls
the driven portion 51 of the locking member 50 towards the elastic member 70, and
as a result, the locking member 50 is disengaged from the fixing groove 32, so that
the cylinder 30 can be pulled out of the insertion hole 41 of the grease gun 40.
         By arrangements, the quick-release structure for a grease gun in accordance
with the invention allows users to quickly disassemble and assemble the cylinder 30
and the grease gun 40, thereby improving the operation efficiency and making the
operation smoother.
         While we have shown and described various embodiments in accordance
with the present invention, it is clear to those skilled in the art that further
embodiments may be made without departing from the scope of the present
invention.
                                            9

                               WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1. A quick-release structure for a grease gun, comprising:
         a cylinder including a peripheral wall, an insertion section on the peripheral
wall, and a fixing groove formed in the insertion section;
         the grease gun including an outer surface, a bottom surface and an insertion
hole formed in the bottom surface, wherein a slot is formed in the outer surface and
in communication with the insertion hole, the insertion section is inserted in the
insertion hole, the fixing groove is aligned to the slot;
         a locking member including a first end surface and an opposite second end
surface, and being inserted in the slot until the first end surface is engaged in the
fixing groove, the second end surface including a driven portion and a positioning
portion;
         a base fixed to the outer surface, and including a rib and a block, the block
includes an abutting surface facing toward the second end surface, and an opposite
front surface, the abutting surface is located a distance away from the second end
surface;
         an elastic member disposed between the positioning portion of the second
end surface and the abutting surface;
         a press member including a press section and a drive section connected to
the press section, the drive section is drivingly connected to the driven portion and to
be pressed by a user; and
         a restricting member including a fixing section and a restricting section
connected to the fixing section, the fixing section is mounted on the front surface, so
                                             10

that the press member is located between the restricting member and the locking
member, and the press section of the press member leans against the restricting
section.
          2. The quick-release structure for the grease gun as claimed in claim 1,
wherein the peripheral wall has a cylindrical shape, the fixing groove is an annular
groove surrounding the peripheral wall, the outer surface is connected to the bottom
surface, and the slot is an elongated slot extending in an extending direction of the
fixing groove.
          3. The quick-release structure for the grease gun as claimed in claim 1,
wherein the first end surface of the locking member is arc-shaped so as to fit in the
fixing groove.
          4. The quick-release structure for the grease gun as claimed in claim 1,
wherein there are two said positioning portions and two said blocks, the two blocks
are connected to two ends of the rib, the rib is located between the two blocks, there
are two said elastic members, one of the two elastic members is disposed between
one of the two blocks and one of the two positioning portions, and another of the two
elastic members is disposed between another of the two blocks and another of the
two positioning portions.
          5. The quick-release structure for the grease gun as claimed in claim 1,
wherein there are two said blocks, the two blocks are connected to two ends of the
rib, the rib is located between the two blocks, the restricting member is an elongated
member, and there are two said fixing sections, so that the restricting section is
located between the two fixing sections, and the two fixing sections are fixed on the
                                           11

two blocks, respectively.
         6. The quick-release structure for the grease gun as claimed in claim 1,
wherein two screws are used to fix the two fixing sections to the two blocks, and fix
the base to the slot of the grease gun.
                                         12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

