                                      ABSTRACT
An apparatus for segmented processing of order management system data is
described herein. The apparatus generally includes: a front end interface that is
operative to receive unencrypted payment information and unencrypted personal
information relating to at least one customer order and return encrypted payment
information and encrypted personal information relating to the at least one
customer order; a middle tier interface that is operative to receive encrypted
payment information and encrypted personal information relating to at least one
customer order and return decrypted personal information only; and/or a back end
interface that is operative to receive encrypted payment information and encrypted
personal information relating to at least one customer order and return decrypted
payment information and decrypted personal information relating to the at least one
customer order.

   WO 2011/156568                                                                     PCT/US2011/039749
                                                      1 /6
      102_                                 102                                  102
    Clear                              Encrypted             Decrypted          vpted           Decrypted
Payment and             EncrPyapte       entd                  ecr       Payment and          Payment and
  Personal            Paym",ent and    Pyesnand               Pnfrsaon      Personal             Personal
Information              Prsron                  information    Only      Information          Information
                       Inform ati on
                      i106                                                 108
    104
            Front End                            Middle TierInefc
            Interface        I'    R PON          Interface       JERPTO
                                         H                           MODULE
                                                                                       110
                                                                            Systfaem
                                   100                                   SPAR Device
                                                                         Commands;
                                                                            Keys; etc
                                                    FIG__1                               102
                                                    FIG. 1

      WO 2011/156568                                                 PCT/US2011/039749
                                                             PRAZ 200042WO01
    METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SECURE ORDER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM DATA
                  ENCRYPTION, DECRYPTION, AND SEGMENTATION
[0001]     This application claims the benefit of U.S.      Provisional Application No.
61/353,760, filed June 11, 2010, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002]     The present exemplary embodiment relates to a method and system for
secure data encryption, decryption, and segmentation. It finds particular application in
conjunction with order management systems, and it will be described with particular
reference thereto.     However, it is to be appreciated that the present exemplary
embodiment is also amenable to other like applications.
[0003]     By way of background, Internet commerce, or e-commerce as it is otherwise
known, relates to the buying and selling of products and/or services between
consumers and merchants over the Internet or other like transactional exchanges of
information. Mobile commerce, also known as m-commerce, is the ability to conduct
commerce using a mobile device, such as a mobile phone, a personal digital assistant
(PDA), a Smartphone, or other emerging mobile equipment such as dashtop mobile
devices. The convenience and availability of shopping over the Internet has sparked
considerable interest in e-commerce and m-commerce on behalf of both consumers
and merchants.
[0004]     As stated above, e-commerce and m-commerce merchants generally conduct
business over the Internet. As such, they are vulnerable to attack from remote locations
around the world. Accordingly, data should be protected in accordance with the PCI
(Payment Card Industry) DSS (Data Security Standard) and information security best
practices.
 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 [0005]    The following reference, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
 reference in its entirety, is mentioned:
                                            1

      WO 2011/156568                                               PCT/US2011/039749
[0006]     U S. Patent No: 7,051,002, issued May 23, 2006, entitled UNIVERSAL
MERCHANT         PLATFORM       FOR    PAYMENT     AUTHENTICATION,        by    Michael
Keresman, Francis Sherwin, and Chandra Balasubramanian describes a method
for processing authentication of a consumer using one of a plurality of different
types of payment instruments to conduct a commercial              transaction over a
communications network with a merchant.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION
[0007]      Various details of the present disclosure are hereinafter summarized to
 provide a basic understanding. This summary is not an extensive overview of the
disclosure and is intended neither to identify certain elements of the disclosure, nor
to delineate the scope thereof. Rather, the primary purpose of the summary is to
 present certain concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form prior to the more
detailed description that is presented hereinafter.
 [0008]    Described herein are exemplary embodiments of a method and system
for providing improved PCI (Payment Card Industry) DSS (data security standards)
functionality in an OMS (order management system).
 [0009]    In accordance with one embodiment, a computer-implemented method of
 segmented processing of order management system data is provided. The method
 includes: using a front end interface of an apparatus to receive unencrypted
 payment information and unencrypted personal information relating to at least one
 customer order and return encrypted payment information and encrypted personal
 information relating to the at least one customer order; using a middle tier interface
 of the apparatus to receive encrypted payment information and encrypted personal
 information relating to at least one customer order and return decrypted personal
 information only;   and/or using a back end interface of the apparatus to receive
 encrypted payment information and encrypted personal information relating to at
 least one customer order and return decrypted payment information and decrypted
 personal information relating to the at least one customer order.
 [0010]    The exemplary computer-implemented method described in the preceding
 paragraph may also include using an administrative interface of the apparatus to at
                                            2

      WO 2011/156568                                              PCT/US2011/039749
least load keys and restart the apparatus, using an additional interface of the
apparatus to store a counter of a number of transactions processed in a pre
determined time period, using multiple physical locks requiring dual control to be
enabled or disabled with one or more of the interfaces, using an encryption module
to encrypt data and a decryption module to decrypt data, connecting only a single
interface at one time, and/or processing all transactions in a stateless manner,
wherein there is no record of previous interactions and each interaction request is
handled based entirely on information that comes with the interaction request.
Optionally, the interfaces may comprise separate Ethernet ports.
[0011]     In accordance with another embodiment, an apparatus for segmented
processing of order management system data is provided. The apparatus includes:
a front end interface that is operative to receive unencrypted payment information
and unencrypted personal information relating to at least one customer order and
return encrypted payment information and encrypted personal information relating
to the at least one customer order; a middle tier interface that is operative to
receive encrypted payment information and encrypted personal information relating
to at least one customer order and return decrypted personal information only;
and/or a back end interface that is operative to receive encrypted payment
information and encrypted personal information relating to at least one customer
order    and   return  decrypted   payment    information  and   decrypted    personal
information relating to the at least one customer order.
[0012]     The apparatus described in the preceding paragraph may also include an
administrative interface that is operative to at least load keys and restart the
apparatus, an additional interface that is operative to store a counter of a number
of transactions processed in a pre-determined time period, and/or an encryption
 module and a decryption module.          Optionally, the interfaces may comprise
separate Ethernet ports, one or more of the interfaces may include multiple
 physical locks requiring dual control to be enabled or disabled, only a single
 interface is connected at one time, each of the interfaces is provided in a separate
device, and/or all transactions are processed in a stateless manner and there is no
                                           3

      WO 2011/156568                                               PCT/US2011/039749
record of previous interactions and each interaction request is handled based
entirely on information that comes with the interaction request.
[0013]     In accordance with yet another embodiment, a non-transitory computer
usable data carrier storing instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause
the computer to perform a method, is provided. The method includes using a front
end interface of an apparatus to receive unencrypted payment information and
unencrypted personal information relating to at least one customer order and return
encrypted payment information and encrypted personal information relating to the
at least one customer order; using a middle tier interface of the apparatus to
receive encrypted payment information and encrypted personal information relating
to at least one customer order and return decrypted personal information only;
and/or using a back end interface of the apparatus to receive encrypted payment
information and encrypted personal information relating to at least one customer
order    and    return decrypted    payment   information   and   decrypted    personal
information relating to the at least one customer order.
 [0014]    The method described in the preceding paragraph may also include using
an administrative interface of the apparatus to at least load keys and restart the
apparatus, using an additional interface of the apparatus to store a counter of a
 number of transactions processed in a pre-determined time period, using multiple
 physical locks requiring dual control to be enabled or disabled with one or more of
the interfaces, using an encryption module to encrypt data and a decryption module
to decrypt data, connecting only a single interface at one time, and/or processing
all transactions in a stateless manner, wherein there is no record of previous
 interactions and each interaction request is handled based entirely on information
that comes with the interaction request.     Optionally, the interfaces may comprise
 separate Ethernet ports.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0015]    FIG. 1 is a high-level schematic overview of a system employing a SPAR
 (secure PCI at rest) device having multiple interfaces;
                                           4

      WO 2011/156568                                                    PCT/US2011/039749
[0016]      FIG. 2 is a block diagram of the functional components of a digital
processing device according to aspects of the present disclosure;
[0017]      FIG. 3 is a high-level schematic overview of a system employing an
alternative embodiment wherein the SPAR (secure PCI at rest) device functions are
distributed across multiple components;
[0018]      FIG. 4 is a flowchart outlining the front end operation of the SPAR device;
[0019]      FIG. 5 is a flowchart outlining the middle tier operation of the SPAR
device; and
[0020]      FIG. 6 is a flowchart outlining the back end operation of the SPAR device.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]      For clarity and simplicity, the present specification refers to structural and/or
functional network elements, entities and/or facilities, relevant standards, protocols
and/or services, and other components that are commonly known in the art without
further detailed explanation as to their configuration or operation except to the extent
the same has been modified or altered in accordance with and/or to accommodate
aspects of the exemplary embodiments.
[0022]      With respect to payment card transactions, payment information and related
personally identifiable information (information identifying a specific person), are
typically collected by merchants using an Order Management System. Generally, an
Order Management System, or OMS, is a computer software system used in a number
of industries for order entry and processing.
[0023]      Payment information and/or personally identifiable information that is "at rest"
is generally stored in an encrypted format. As used herein, the term "data at rest" refers
to data, such as payment and personally identifiable information, being written to
durable storage (e.g., a hard drive, a database, etc.). In physical terms, most computer
files are stored on some type of data storage device. For example, there is a hard disk,
from which most operating systems run and on which most store their files.         Computer
files can be also stored on other media in some cases, such as magnetic tapes,
compact discs, Digital Versatile Discs, Zip drives, USB flash drives, etc. Where files
contain only temporary information, they may be stored, for example, in RAM. The term
                                               5

     WO 2011/156568                                                    PCT/US2011/039749
"personally identifiable information," as used herein, refers to information that can be
used to uniquely identify, contact, or locate a single person or can be used with other
sources to uniquely identify a single individual.
[0024]     The PCI (Payment Card Industry) DSS (Data Security Standard) is a set of
comprehensive requirements for enhancing payment account data security. The PCI
DSS was developed by the founding payment brands of the PCI Security Standards
Council,     including    American   Express      Discover    Financial   Services®,     JCB
International,     MasterCard Worldwide    and Visa International*, to help facilitate the
broad adoption of consistent data security measures on a global basis to proactively
protect customer account data. The PCI DSS is a multifaceted security standard that
includes    requirements    for security   management,     policies,  procedures,   network
architecture,     software  design  and    other  critical  protective  measures.        This
comprehensive standard is intended to help organizations proactively protect customer
account data.
[0025]     The requirements of the PCI DSS may include, for example: installing and
maintaining a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data; not using vendor
supplied defaults for system passwords and other security parameters; protecting
stored cardholder data; encrypting transmission of cardholder data across open, public
networks; using and regularly updating anti-virus software; developing and maintaining
secure systems and applications; restricting access to cardholder data by business on a
need-to-know basis; assigning a unique ID to each person with computer access;
restricting physical access to cardholder data; tracking and monitoring all access to
network resources and cardholder data; regularly testing security systems and
processes; maintaining a policy that addresses information security.          There is an
industry need to provide improved PCI DSS functionality in an OMS (order management
system)
[0026]     With reference now to FIG. 1, an exemplary secure PCI at rest (SPAR) device
100 for providing consistent data security measures in an OMS for a plurality of clients
102 is provided. The exemplary embodiment of the SPAR device 100 generally uses
 Format Preserving Encryption (FPE) with data and interface segmentation to meet PCI
requirements and provide increased security.           In cryptography, format-preserving
                                              6

      WO 2011/156568                                                 PCT/US2011/039749
encryption (FPE) refers to encrypting in such a way that the output (the ciphertext) is in
the same format as the input (the plaintext). It is to be appreciated, however, that the
meaning of "format" varies. Typically only finite domains are discussed, for example, to
encrypt a 16-digit credit card number so that the ciphertext is another 16-digit number.
It is also noted that the SPAR device 100 suitably supports both field level and payment
level FPE. An example of the difference between field level and payment information
level (personal information would also apply) FPE is set forth below:
         1.    Field level cardinality FPE:
                       Clear data:
                              NameOnCard: John Smith
                              CardNumber: 4111111111111111
                              NameOnCard: Jane Smith
                              CardNumber: 4111111111111111
                       Encrypted Data:
                              NameOnCard: Xv asQrv S
                              CardNumber: 9872344353492934
                              NameOnCard: yUZa xcvnM
                              CardNumber: 9872344353492934
(Notice that the encrypted names are unique, but the CardNumber is the same.)
         2.     Payment information level cardinality FPE:
                       Clear data:
                              NameOnCard: John Smith
                              Pan:4111111111111111
                              NameOnCard: Jane Smith
                              Pan:4111111111111111
                        Encrypted Data:
                              NameOnCard: DvAaBQrvTG
                              Pan:2930492329495857
                              NameOnCard: ZYfa xcbpU
                                             7

     WO 2011/156568                                                 PCT/US2011/039749
                              Pan: 8572936887329495
(Notice that both the encrypted names and the CardNumbers are unique in this case.)
[00271      Using FPE generally allows for data to be stored in the same devices and/or
database fields as non-encrypted data, since they remain the same size and data type.
There are two basic techniques for encrypting information: symmetric encryption (also
called secret key encryption) and asymmetric encryption (also called public key
encryption.)     Additionally, quantum cryptography describes the use of           quantum
 m hancal effects (in particular quantum communication and quantum mutationo) to
perform c yptogr aphi tasks or to break ryptographic system. With regard to FPE, it is
noted that multiple algorithms exist to preserve the format of data that is encrypted.
Two possible algorithms are cycle walking and Feistel networks. A Feistel network is
known as an iterated cipher with an internal function called a round function. While
Cycle walking is guaranteed to converge, it does not guarantee an execution time. One
possible technique is to use Feistel networks followed by Cycle walking to encrypt a
credit card number. If the Feistel network was using Basel 0 instead of Base2, then the
cycle walking would not be required. The Feistel rounding function would be DES3 or
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).            The Advanced Encryption Standard is a
symmetric-key encryption standard adopted by the U.S. government.            The standard
comprises three block ciphers, AES-128, AES-192 and AES-256.               Each of these
ciphers has a 128-bit block size, with key sizes of 128, 192 and 256 bits, respectively.
[0028]      In one embodiment, the SPAR device 100 incorporates data segmentation,
which includes at least segmenting payment card data (e.g., credit card numbers) from
personally identifiable information (e.g., customer names, customer addresses, national
identification numbers, driver's license number, birthday, and the like).        Interface
segmentation includes at least segmenting employed interfaces, such as a front end
interface 104, a middle tier interface 106, a back end interface 108, and an
administrative (or admin) interface 110, through physical and/or logical separation.
Suitably, the SPAR device 100 does not actually "store" any client data, but rather it
typically provides at least one or more interfaces or modules (e.g., the front end
interface 104, the middle tier 106, the back end interface 108, and/or the admin
interface 110) to allow for the storage and retrieval of encrypted data while being data
                                              8

      WO 2011/156568                                                  PCT/US2011/039749
type aware.
[0029]      Each of the clients 102 is suitably embodied by a digital processing device
114, such as a computer (e.g., a desk top, a laptop, etc.), a cell phone, a smart phone,
a PDA, and the like, connected to a communications network (not shown). Further, as
shown in FIG. 2, it is to be appreciated that each of the digital processing devices
suitably includes, but is not limited to, the following components: a communications unit
116, at least one memory module 118, a display 120, a user input device 122, a
processor 124, and the like. The communications unit 116 allows the digital processing
device 114 to interact with other components connected to the communications
network. The memory 118 includes computer executable instructions for performing the
above-noted functions associated with the client 102. The display 120 is adapted to
display one or more graphical user interfaces (e.g., via one or more Web browsers)
facilitating client interaction with the digital processing device 114.    The user input
device 122 allows the client 102 to interact with the graphical user interfaces. The
processor 124 generally executes the computer executable instructions on the memory
118.
[0030]      As stated above, the SPAR device 100 may include one or more interfaces,
including a front end interface 102, a middle tier interface 104, a back end interface 106,
and an administrative interface 108.         A single SPAR device 100 may use all the
interfaces or as few as a single interface. Each of the interfaces may have a unique
network address (IP address) and/or port number. Further, they may be bound to one
or more distinct Ethernet interfaces.
 [0031]     Generally, clean (i.e., unencrypted) customer information (e.g., payment
 information and/or personal information) is sent to the front end interface 104 of the
device 100 and is then returned encrypted, preferably over a secure communication
channel. Format preserving encryption is used for payment identifiable fields such as
credit card fields, social security numbers, etc., such that an encrypted credit card field
would still be, for example, 16 numeric digits and MOD10 (Luhn checksum) compliant.
 Personally identifiable fields, such as name and address, are encrypted, and its format
 may contain any combination of letters and/or numbers. Rules are typically in place to
 prevent payment information        from intentionally or unintentionally being sent in
                                               9

     WO 2011/156568                                                   PCT/US2011/039749
personally identfiable fields.    For example, a credit card number cannot be submitted
as a name. This may prevent one of the clients 102 from possibly misusing the SPAR
device 100 and intentionally and/or unintentionally passing along payment information
(such as a credit card number) as personal information.
[0032]     Further, encrypted information (e.g., payment and/or personal information)
may be sent to the middle tier interface 106 of the SPAR device 100, whereby personal
information is returned decrypted, preferably over a secure communication channel.
Suitably, encrypted payment information may be accepted as input by the middle tier
interface 106, but decrypted payment information is not returned. This would facilitate
customer support, order fulfillment, etc.
[0033]     Encrypted personal information and/or payment information may be sent to
the back end interface 108 of the SPAR device 100, whereby the personal information
and/or   payment      information  is   returned   decrypted, preferably over a      secure
communication channel. This action suitably facilitates payment (e.g., capture, refunds,
and the like.). Alternatively, the payment information may be field level encrypted per
the specifications of the payment processor(s), whereby the merchant does not have to
encrypt the data.
[0034]     The administrative interface 110 may be used, for example, to load keys and
restart the SPAR device 100.          Typically, keys are loaded into an HSM (hardware
security module) and are not exported.
[0035]     It is noted that the SPAR device 100 may optionally store a counter of the
number of transactions processed in a pre-determined time period via a fifth interface
(not shown).     It is to be appreciated, however, that additional interfaces are to be
contemplated.
[0036]     The interfaces described above could be implemented as separate Ethernet
ports. Further, one or more of the interfaces could have a multiple physical locks (i.e.,
requiring dual control) to be enabled or disabled.
[0037]     Preferably, the SPAR device 100 is a non-transitory device that receives
customer data from clients in various encrypted and unencrypted forms and
processes the data accordingly. Suitably, the customer data as received from
clients and processed by the device 100 is not stored in the device 100 itself. The
                                               10

     WO 2011/156568                                                   PCT/US2011/039749
customer data may be embodied in any suitable data format such as strings,
computer readable binary structures, or other forms.         Prior to inputting, customer
data string inputs may be           stored in any suitable tangible storage medium
associated with a computing device, such as a disk, ROM or RAM, or may be input
into the system 100 via a communication network such as the Internet.
[0038]     The device 100 typically includes data memory 112 for storing source
strings, target strings and any other input or intermediate data during processing.
The    memory     112 of the device 100 stores, for example,              instructions for
implementing aspects of the exemplary embodiments, including the front end
interface 104, the middle tier interface 106, the back end interface 108, and the
administrative interface 110.      It is to be appreciated that the memory 112 may be
embodied as a single memory unit or may comprise two or more component
memory units. The instructions are suitably executed by a digital processor such
as computer processor 114. The digital processor 128 can be variously embodied,
such as by a single core processor, a dual core processor (or more generally by a
multiple core processor), a digital processor and cooperating math coprocessor, a
digital controller, or the like. It is to be appreciated that outputs from the interfaces
104, 106, 108, 110 may be stored in the memory 138 and/or output to a client 102
using a digital processing device, such as an external computer having memory
and a processor, which communicates with the device 100 through a network such
as the Internet. In one illustrative example, the device 100 is located on a server
that is part of a distributed or cloud computing network. The processor 114 and the
memory      112 may      be suitably embodied        by a    digital processor (e.g.,    a
microprocessor or a parallel array of microprocessors) and memory component(s)
of the server.
[0039]     By way of example, existing Order Management Systems can utilize the
SPAR device 100 to facilitate PCI data at rest requirements without extensive updates
to data storage. Due to the stateless nature of the SPAR device 100, multiple devices
can be used to scale processing and facilitate high availability. As used herein, stateful
and stateless are adjectives that describe whether a computer or computer program is
designed to note and remember one or more preceding events in a given sequence of
                                              11

      WO 2011/156568                                                 PCT/US2011/039749
interactions with a user, another computer or program, a device, or other outside
element. "Stateful" generally means the computer or program keeps track of the state
of interaction, usually by setting values in a storage field designated for that purpose.
On the other hand, "stateless" generally means there is no record of previous
interactions and each interaction request has to be handled based entirely on
information that comes with it. Stateful and stateless are derived from the usage of
"state" as a set of conditions at a moment in time.
[0040]     Further, on a segmented network, only a single interface ever needs to be
connected at one time.      Consider a standard merchant with a Web front end in a DMZ,
a middle tier with customer support and order fulfillment functions, and a separate back
end firewalled payment service. Three autonomous SPAR devices 100 could be used
in this setup. It is noted that a DMZ, or demilitarized zone, is a physical or logical sub
network that contains and exposes an organization's external services to a larger
untrusted network, usually the Internet. The purpose of a DMZ is to add an additional
layer of security to an organization's local area network (LAN); an external attacker only
has access to equipment in the DMZ, rather than any other part of the network.
[0041]      The Web servers in the DMZ could physically be connected only to the front
end interface. Without connecting a new physical cable, it would not be possible to
decrypt the data, since the front end interface 104 does not return decrypted data. This
principal is also applied to the middle tier, where more trust is present but payment
information would not be returned.
[0042]     It is to be appreciated that the SPAR device 100 described herein may
embody a single component (as shown in FIG. 1), or it may be integrated within multiple
components in the form of hardware integration, such as multiple SPAR devices 100
connected to a network (as shown in FIG. 3) and/or in combination with a software
solution.
[0043]     In FIG. 3, interface segmentation includes at least segmenting employed
interfaces, such as first SPAR device 300 with a front end interface 302, a second
SPAR device 304 with a middle tier interface 306, a third SPAR device 308 with a back
end interface 310, and a fourth SPAR device 312 with an administrative (or admin)
interface 314, through physical and/or logical separation.    Although not shown in the
                                             12

      WO 2011/156568                                                 PCT/US2011/039749
figure, it is to be appreciated that the SPAR devices 300, 304, 308 may contain other
components such as an encryption module, a decryption module, data memory, a
computer processor, and a bus.
[00441       FIG. 4 is a flowchart outlining the front end operation of the SPAR device
100.     Initially, the front end interface 104 of the SPAR device 100 receives
unencrypted payment and personal information from a client 102 over a secure
communication channel and optionally stores it in data memory for processing only
(i.e., encryption) (410).       In this regard, the received payment and personal
information is encrypted (420) and returned (430) to the client 102 over the secure
communication channel.
[0045]       FIG. 5 is a flowchart outlining the middle tier operation of the SPAR
device 100. Initially, the middle tier interface 106 of the SPAR device 100 receives
encrypted payment and personal information from a client 102 over a secure
communication channel and optionally stores it in data memory for processing only
(i.e., decryption) (510).     The received payment and personal information is then
decrypted       (520)   and  returned    (530)   to the  client  102  over   the   secure
communication channel.
[0046]       FIG. 6 is a flowchart outlining the back end operation of the SPAR device
100. Initially, the back end interface 106 of the SPAR device 100 receives encrypted
payment and personal information from a client 102 over a secure communication
channel and optionally stores it in data memory for processing only (i.e., decryption)
(610). In this regard, the received payment and personal information is decrypted (620)
and returned (630) to the client 102 over the secure communication channel.
[0047]       It is to be appreciated that suitably, the methods and systems described
herein are embodied by a computer, or other digital processing device including a
digital processor, such as a microprocessor, microcontroller, graphic processing
unit (GPU), etc. and storage.       In other embodiments, the systems and methods
may be embodied by a server including a digital processor and including or having
access to digital data storage, such server being suitably accessed via the Internet
or a local area network, or by a personal data assistant (PDA) including a digital
processor and digital data storage, or so forth.          The computer or other digital
                                               13

      WO 2011/156568                                                 PCT/US2011/039749
processing device suitably includes or is operatively connected with one or more
user input devices, such as a keyboard, for receiving user input, and further
includes, or is operatively connected with, one or more display devices.          In other
embodiments, the input for controlling the methods and systems is received from
another program running previously to or concurrently with the methods and
systems on the computer, or from a network connection, or so forth. Similarly, in
other embodiments the output may serve as input to another program running
subsequent to or concurrently with methods and systems on the computer, or may
be transmitted via a network connection, or :o forth.
[00481     In some embodiments, the exemplary methods, discussed above, the
system employing the same, and so forth, of the present application are embodied
by a storage medium storing instructions executable (for example, by a digital
processor) to implement the exemplary methods and/or systems.               The storage
medium may include, for example: a magnetic disk or other magnetic storage
medium; an optical disk or other optical storage medium; a random access memory
(RAM), read-only memory (ROM), or other electronic memory device or chip or set
of operatively interconnected chips; an Internet server from which the stored
 instructions may be retrieved via the Internet or a local area network; or so forth.
 [0049]     It is to further be appreciated that in connection with the particular
 exemplary embodiments presented herein certain structural and/or functional
features     are described     as being    incorporated in   defined   elements     and/or
 components. However, it is contemplated that these features may, to the same or
 similar benefit, also likewise be incorporated in other elements and/or components
where appropriate.        It is also to be appreciated that different aspects of the
 exemplary embodiments may be selectively employed as appropriate to achieve
 other alternate embodiments suited for desired applications, the other alternate
 embodiments      thereby    realizing the   respective advantages     of the     aspects
 incorporated therein.
 [0050]     It is also to be appreciated that particular elements or components
 described herein may have their functionality suitably implemented via hardware,
 software, firmware or a combination thereof. Additionally, it is to be appreciated
                                             14

      WO 2011/156568                                                PCT/US2011/039749
that certain elements described herein as incorporated together may under suitable
circumstances be stand-alone elements or otherwise divided. Similarly, a plurality
of particular functions described as being carried out by one particular element may
be carried out by a plurality of distinct elements acting independently to carry out
individual functions, or certain individual functions may be split-up and carried out
by a plurality of distinct elements acting in concert. Alternately, some elements or
components otherwise described and/or shown herein as distinct from one another
may be physically or functionally combined where appropriate.
[0051]     Even more, it is to be appreciated that, as used herein, a memory
includes one or more of a non-transient computer readable medium; a magnetic
disk or other magnetic storage medium; an optical disk or other optical storage
medium; a random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), or other
electronic memory device or chip or set of operatively interconnected chips; an
Internet server from which the stored instructions may be retrieved via the Internet
or a local area network; or so forth. Further, as used herein, a processor includes
one or more of a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a graphic processing unit
(GPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field-programmable gate
array (FPGA), and the like; a communications network includes one or more of the
 Internet, a local area network, a wide area network, a wireless network, a wired
 network, a cellular network, a data bus, such as USB and 12C, and the like; a user
 input device includes one or more of a mouse, a keyboard, a touch screen display,
one or more buttons, one or more switches, one or more toggles, and the like; a
database includes at least one memory; and a display includes one or more of a
 LCD display, an LED display, a plasma display, a projection display, a touch screen
display, and the like.
 [0052]     In short, the present specification has been set forth with reference to
 preferred embodiments.       Obviously, modifications and alterations will occur to
 others upon reading and understanding the present specification.         It is intended
that the embodiments be construed as including all such modifications and
 alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the
 equivalents thereof. That is to say, it will be appreciated that various of the above
                                            15

     WO 2011/156568                                             PCT/US2011/039749
disclosed and other features and functions, or alternatives thereof,        may be
desirably combined into many other different systems or applications, and also that
various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives, modifications, variations
or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art
which are similarly intended to be encompassed by the following claims.
                                         16

     WO 2011/156568                                               PCT/US2011/039749
Claims:
   1.         A computer-mplemented method of segmented processing of order
       management system data, the method comprising:
              using a front end interface of an apparatus to receive unencrypted
       payment information and unencrypted personal information relating to at
       least one customer order and return encrypted payment information and
       encrypted personal information relating to the at least one customer order;
              using a middle tier interface of the apparatus to receive encrypted
       payment information and encrypted personal information relating to at least
       one customer order and return decrypted personal information only;
              using a back end interface of the apparatus to receive encrypted
       payment information and encrypted personal information relating to at least
       one customer order and return decrypted payment information and decrypted
       personal information relating to the at least one customer order.
   2.         The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              using an administrative interface of the apparatus to at least load keys
       and restart the apparatus.
   3.         The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              using an additional interface of the apparatus to store a counter of a
       number of transactions processed in a pre-determined time period.
   4.         The method of claim 1, wherein the interfaces comprise separate
       Ethernet ports.
    5.        The method of claim 1, using multiple physical locks requiring dual
       control to be enabled or disabled with one or more of the interfaces.
    6.        The method of claim 1, further comprising
              using an encryption module to encrypt data and a decryption module
       to decrypt data.
    7.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              connecting only a single interface at one time.
    8.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                                           17

 WO 2011/156568                                                   PCT/US2011/039749
           processing all transactions in a stateless manner, wherein there is no
    record of previous interactions and each interaction request is handled
    based entirely on information that comes with the interaction request.
9.         An apparatus for segmented processing of order management system
    data, the apparatus comprising:
           a front end interface that is operative to receive unencrypted payment
    information and unencrypted personal information relating to at least one
    customer order and return encrypted payment information and encrypted
    personal information relating to the at least one customer order;
           a middle tier interface that is operative to receive encrypted payment
    information and encrypted personal information relating to at least one
    customer order and return decrypted personal information only; and
           a back end interface that is operative to receive encrypted payment
    information and encrypted personal information relating to at least one
    customer order and return decrypted payment information and decrypted
    personal information relating to the at least one customer order.
10.        The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising an administrative
    interface that is operative to at least load keys and restart the apparatus.
11.        The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising an additional interface
    that is operative to store a counter of a number of transactions processed in
    a pre-determined time period.
12.        The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the interfaces are comprise
    separate Ethernet ports.
13.        The apparatus of claim 9, wherein one or more of the interfaces
    include multiple physical locks requiring dual control to be enabled or
    disabled.
14.        The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising an encryption module
    and a decryption module.
15.         The apparatus of claim 9, wherein only a single interface is connected
    at one time.
                                         18

 WO 2011/156568                                                PCT/US2011/039749
16.        The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each of the interfaces is provided in
    a separate device.
17.        The apparatus of claim 9, wherein all transactions are processed in a
    stateless manner and there is no record of previous interactions and each
    interaction request is handled based entirely on information that comes with
    the interaction request.
18.        A non-transitory computer-usable data carrier storing instructions that,
    when executed by a computer, cause the computer to:
           using a front end interface of an apparatus to receive unencrypted
    payment information and unencrypted personal information relating to at
    least one customer order and return encrypted payment information and
    encrypted personal information relating to the at least one customer order;
           using a middle tier interface of the apparatus to receive encrypted
    payment information and encrypted personal information relating to at least
    one customer order and return decrypted personal information only;
           using a back end interface of the apparatus to receive encrypted
    payment information and encrypted personal information relating to at least
    one customer order and return decrypted payment information and decrypted
    personal information relating to the at least one customer order.
19.        The data carrier of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises:
           using an administrative interface of the apparatus to at least load keys
    and restart the apparatus.
20.        The data carrier of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises:
    using an additional interface of the apparatus to store a counter of a number
    of transactions processed in a pre-determined time period.
                                        19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       4/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       6/6

