                                                ABSTRACT
  The present invention relates to a container handling apparatus, an apparatus for the positioning of a
  container (a guide apparatus) and the container handling apparatus for engagement of the container,
5 and a system comprising the same. In use, the container handling apparatus is guided by contact with
  walls of the guide apparatus into a position in which it can engage with a container positioned on a
  base of the guide apparatus.

       6/8
               CD C)
C))
  -b   tl    0
     r    s-      m

                                                      1
A CONTAINER HANDLING SYSTEM AND APPARATUS
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to a container handling apparatus, an apparatus for the
positioning of both a container, and the container handling apparatus for engagement of the container,
and a system comprising the same.
BACKGROUND
[0002] The act of picking up an intermodal type bulk container with a crane suspended rotating
tipping spreader (tippler) is not an easy one to effect, due to the lack of precise control a crane operator
has over the position of the tippler. The task is further complicated by the fact that the standard
mechanism for locking the tippler to the container requires precise alignment in order to function. By
the time wind and uneven ground surfaces are taken into account, the degree of difficulty is
significantly increased.
[0003] Certain objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein, by way of
illustration and example, an embodiment of the present invention is disclosed.
SUMMARY
[0004] According to a first aspect, there is provided a system for handling a container, the system
comprising a container handling apparatus comprising externally directed impact absorbing means,
and an apparatus for positioning a container (a guide apparatus) and the container handling apparatus,
the guide apparatus comprising a base for supporting the container, the base comprising a pair of sides
and a pair of ends, an upstanding side wall for at least one side of the base, an upstanding end wall for
at least one end of the base, each wall extending well above any container positioned on the base,
wherein in use, the container handling apparatus is guided by contact with the walls of the guide
apparatus into a position in which it can engage with the container positioned on the base.
[0005] In one form, the container is an intermodal type container and the handling apparatus is a
spreader.

                                                      2
[0006] In one form, the container is an intermodal type bulk container and the handling apparatus is a
tipping spreader or tippler.
[0007] In a further aspect, the invention may be said to reside in an apparatus for the positioning of a
container (a guide apparatus) and a container handling apparatus for engagement of the container by
the container handling apparatus, the apparatus comprising a base for supporting the container, the
base comprising a pair of sides and a pair of ends, an upstanding side wall for at least one side of the
base, an upstanding end wall for at least one end of the base, each wall extending well above any
container positioned on the base, and at least one outrigger assembly extending outward from the base
on the side wall equipped side thereof, for stabilising the apparatus.
[0008] In one from, the base is elongate, and the sides of the base are lengthwise extending.
[0009] In one form, side walls only extend along a portion of the side of the base. In one form, this
portion is at or near a corner of the base.
[0010] In one form, the apparatus comprises at least a pair of outrigger assemblies extending outward
from the base on the side wall equipped side thereof.
[0011] In one form, the apparatus further comprises at least a pair of outrigger assemblies extending
outward from the base on the non-side wall equipped side thereof.
[0012] In one form, the or each outrigger comprises a ground engaging foot. This foot is extendable
into ground engagement, and retractable clear of the ground. In this way, the feet can be employed to
level the base.
[0013] In one form, the or each foot depends from a linear actuator which depends from the outrigger.
[0014] In one form, the apparatus comprises a power pack for powering the or each linear actuator. In
an alternative, a manual jacking system may be employed.
[0015] In one form, the apparatus further comprises means for locating the container relative to the
base.
[0016] In one form, this means positively engages the container.

                                                      3
[0017] In one form, the apparatus further comprises means for locating more than one size (or type)
of container relative to the base. For instance, the base may comprise locating means for 20' and 40'
ISO (shipping) containers.
[0018] In one form, the locating means engage container corner fittings.
[0019] In one form, the locating means comprises pins for insertion into the container corner fittings.
[0020] According to a further aspect, there is provided a container handling apparatus comprising
externally directed impact absorbing means for protecting the container handling apparatus from
damage resulting from collisions with an apparatus for positioning the container handling apparatus
for engagement with a container (or vice versa), at least.
[0021] In one form, the externally directed impact absorbing means depends from at least one
exterior surface of the container handling apparatus.
[0022] In one form, the externally directed impact absorbing means comprise bumpers of resilient
material. In one form, the resilient material is an elastomeric one, such as rubber.
[0023] In one form, externally directed impact absorbing means depend from the walls of the guide
apparatus.
[0024]   In one form, the externally directed impact absorbing means comprise springs.
[0025] According to a further aspect, there is provided an apparatus for the positioning of a container
(a guide apparatus) and a container handling apparatus for engagement of the container by the
container handling apparatus, the apparatus comprising a base for supporting the container, the base
comprising a pair of sides and a pair of ends, an upstanding side wall for at least one side of the base,
an upstanding end wall for at least one end of the base, each wall extending well above any container
positioned on the base, and an outrigger assembly extending outward from a position at or near each
corner of the base, for stabilising the apparatus, wherein each outrigger assembly comprises a ground
engaging foot which is extendible toward the ground and retractable away from the ground.
[0026] In one form, each ground engaging foot is mounted with respect to its respective outrigger
assembly via a ball joint.

                                                      4
[0027] A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along
with accompanying figures that illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention. While the
invention is described in connection with such embodiments, it should be understood that the
invention is not limited to any embodiment. On the contrary, the scope of the invention is limited only
by the appended claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives, modifications and
equivalents. For the purpose of example, numerous specific details are set forth in the following
description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention.
[0028] The present invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these
specific details. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields
related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the present invention is not
unnecessarily obscured.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0029] Embodiments of the present invention will be discussed with reference to the accompanying
drawings wherein:
[0030] Figure 1 is a front view of an apparatus (guide apparatus) for the positioning of both a
container, and a container handling apparatus for engagement of the container;
[0031] Figure 2 is a rear corner view of the guide apparatus of Figure 1;
[0032] Figure 3 is a front corner view of the guide apparatus of Figure 1;
[0033] Figure 4 is a detail view of a power pack for the guide apparatus;
[0034] Figure 5 is a detail view of an outrigger for the guide apparatus;
[0035] Figure 6 is a front corner view of the guide apparatus, a container, and a container handling
apparatus;
[0036] Figure 7 is a rear corner view of the guide apparatus of Figure 1; and
[0037] Figure 8 is a perspective view of the container handling apparatus of Figure 6 in isolation.
[0038] In the following description, like reference characters designate like or corresponding parts
throughout the figures.

                                                      5
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0039] Referring now to Figure 6, there is shown an apparatus 1 (hereinafter 'guide apparatus') for
the positioning of an intermodal container 200 and a container handling apparatus 100 (hereinafter
'handling apparatus') for engagement of the container 200 by the handling apparatus 100. Together,
the guide apparatus 1 and the handling apparatus 100 form part of a container handling system.
[0040] Referring now to Figures 1 through 5, the guide apparatus 1 comprises an elongate base 2 for
supporting the container 200, the base 2 comprising a pair of lengthwise extending sides 2a, and a pair
of ends 2b, an upstanding side wall 4 for one side of the base 2, an upstanding end wall 6 for each end
2b of the base 2, so that the walls cooperate to form wall corners, and each wall 4 and 6 extends well
above any container 200 positioned on the base.
[0041] The upstanding side wall 4 is divided into two spaced apart portions, each portion being
located at a corner of the base 2.
[0042] Walls 4 and 6 can be straight (90 degrees) from the base 2 to the top, or the walls can start
straight (90 degrees) and then at a point higher than top of container angle outward (up to 45 degrees)
away from the container location. Moreover, walls 4 and 6 extend considerably higher than a container
200 so that these can capture the swinging handling apparatus 100.
[0043] Back supports 7 absorb excess shock associated with the increased weights of a tippler as
compared with a standard container lifting spreader. Central shock absorbing legs are used to soften
the impact loads on the levelling pads. These shock absorbing legs can have rubber/wood/spring type
dampeners attached during operation.
[0044] The base 2 comprises means for locating the container 200 relative to the base 2 by positively
engaging the container 200 with pins or spiggots 3 sized and shaped for insertion into container
'twistlock' points or corner fittings of the type found on intermodal containers.
[0045] Optionally, the guide apparatus 1 comprises more than one set of pins 3, for locating more
than one size of container 200 relative to the base 2. For instance, the base 2 may comprise pins for
locating 20' and 40' ISO (shipping) containers.
[0046] Alternatively, the guide apparatus 1 comprises more than one set of pins 3 for locating
containers 200 of the same size in different positions, so that, for instance, the container handling

                                                      6
apparatus 100 can be guided using one wall corner (between walls 4 and 6 at one end) in preference to
the other.
[0047] The apparatus 1 further comprises an outrigger assembly 10 extending outward from a
position at or near each corner of the base 2, for stabilising the apparatus 1.
[0048] Each outrigger assembly 10 comprises an outrigger arm 12, a linear actuator 20 (a hydraulic
ram in this case) depending from an outer position of the outrigger arm 12, and a ground engaging foot
30 depending from a free end of the linear actuator 20. The feet 30 are connected to the linear actuator
20 via a ball joint, so as to compensate for uneven surfaces, and to improve load distribution.
[0049] This foot 30 is driven by extension of the actuator 20 toward the ground and into ground
engagement, and retractable away from the ground by retraction of the linear actuator 20. In this way,
the feet 30 can be employed to level the base 2.
[0050] The base 2 of the guide apparatus comprises a power pack 50 (hydraulic pump and motor) for
powering all of the linear actuators 20, and a control system for the power pack 50. In one form this
control system comprises means for sensing (such as a mercury tilt switch) whether the base 2 is level
both longitudinally and transversely, and means for actuating the linear actuators (control valves,
solenoids etc.) as required to level the base 2.
[0051] Without these levelling characteristics, the containers 200 are not level and the handling
apparatus 100 can have difficulty interfacing with the container 200.
[0052]    Referring now to Figure 6 and 8, it can be seen that the handling apparatus 100 comprises
externally directed impact absorbing means for absorbing impacts resulting from collisions with the
guide apparatus 1 at least. More particularly, the handling apparatus 100 is fitted with a plurality of
heavy duty bumper elements 110 of, for example, an elastomeric material such as rubber. These
bumper elements 110 are secured to external surfaces of the handling apparatus 100, including at or
near or along edges or corners of external surfaces which are likely to be involved in impacts during
normal use of the handling apparatus 100.
[0053] Preferably, these bumpers 110 are secured to the handling apparatus 100 by releasable means
such as fasteners or clips, so that the bumper elements 110 can be replaced as required.

                                                      7
[0054] The base 2 of the guide apparatus 1 also comprises slots for receiving tines of a forklift, and
lifting lugs or handling via a reach stacker; in this way the guide apparatus can be moved and
positioned as required.
[0055] In use, a full container 200 is positioned on the pins of the base 2 using a lifting device such as
a forklift, reach stacker, crane etc. The handling apparatus 100, which is suspended from a crane, is
then carefully positioned between the walls 4 and 6, and guided into a wall corner formed between an
end wall and a side wall of apparatus 1, so that bumpers 110 fitted at or near this corner of the
handling apparatus 100 bear against this wall corner. The handling apparatus 100 is then lowered,
potentially bumping and dragging against the walls as it is lowered, until it comes to rest against the
top of the container 200 in a position which is ideal for connection of the handling apparatus 100 with
the container 200.
[0056] Pivotal to the success of the above described operation is the positioning of the walls 4 and 6
relative to the container position on the base 2, and particularly the spacing of the walls 4 and 6 from
the base 2, as this will determine whether the handling apparatus 100 is correctly positioned for
engagement with the container 200. The spacing of the walls 4 and 6 from the base 2 will be selected
to substantially match the extent of handling apparatus 100 (tippler) overhang relative to the container
200, and should take into account the additional overhang created by the bumpers 110.
[0057] The container 200 can then be lifted up and swung away from the guide apparatus 1 for
emptying.
[0058] In cases where the handling apparatus 100 is a tippler, the container 200 is emptied by way of
being upended into a hold of a ship.
[0059] The system and apparatus according to the present invention has been found to yield the
following benefits or advantages:
              a.  Quicker placement of tippler onto containers and improved efficiency of tippler
                  operation;
              b.  Significant reduction in tippler twist lock malfunctions;
              c.  Reduction in damage to tippler.
              d.  Reduction in damage to containers.

                                                      8
             e.  Safer operation, as it eliminates the need for personnel on the ground guiding the
                 tippler onto the container.
[0060] Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires otherwise,
the words "comprise" and "include" and variations such as "comprising" and "including" will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.
[0061] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.
[0062] It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted in its use to
the particular application described. Neither is the present invention restricted in its preferred
embodiment with regard to the particular elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It will
be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the embodiment or embodiments disclosed, but is
capable of numerous rearrangements, modifications and substitutions without departing from the
scope of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims.
[0063] Please note that the following claims are provisional claims only, and are provided as
examples of possible claims and are not intended to limit the scope of what may be claimed in any
future patent applications based on the present application. Integers may be added to or omitted from
the example claims at a later date so as to further define or re-define the invention.

                                                     9
CLAIMS
1.       An apparatus for the positioning of a container (a guide apparatus) and a container handling
apparatus for engagement of the container by the container handling apparatus, the apparatus
comprising a base for supporting the container, the base comprising a pair of sides and a pair of ends,
an upstanding side wall for at least one side of the base, an upstanding end wall for at least one end of
the base, each wall extending well above any container positioned on the base, and an outrigger
assembly extending outward from a position at or near each corner of the base, for stabilising the
apparatus, wherein each outrigger assembly comprises a ground engaging foot which is extendible
toward the ground and retractable away from the ground.
2.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base is elongate, and the sides of the base are
lengthwise extending.
3.       The apparatus as in either of the preceding claims, wherein at least a pair of the outrigger
assemblies extend outward from the base on the side wall equipped side thereof.
4.       The apparatus as in any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least a pair of the outrigger
assemblies extend outward from the base on the non-side wall equipped side thereof.
5.       The apparatus as in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the or each foot depends from a
linear actuator which depends from the outrigger.
6.       The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a power pack for powering the or each linear
actuator.
7.       The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a control system for the power pack, the control
system comprising means for sensing whether the base is level both longitudinally and transversely,
and means for actuating the or each linear actuator as required to level the base.
8.       The apparatus as in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the apparatus further comprises
means for locating the container relative to the base.
9.       The apparatus of claim 8, wherein this means positively engages the container.

                                                       10
10.      The apparatus as in either of claims 8 or 9, wherein the apparatus further comprises means for
locating more than one size (or type) of container relative to the base, or locating one size or type of
container in more than one position with respect to the base.
11.      The apparatus as in any one of claims 8 through 10, wherein the locating means engage
container corner fittings.
12.      The apparatus as in any one of claims 8 through 11, wherein the locating means comprises
pins for insertion into the container corner fittings.
13.      The apparatus as in any one of the preceding claims, wherein each ground engaging foot is
mounted with respect to its respective outrigger assembly via a ball joint.
14.      A system for handling a container, the system comprising a container handling apparatus and
an apparatus for positioning a container (the guide apparatus) as in any one of claims 1 through 11,
wherein in use, spacing of the walls will be selected to substantially match the extent of handling
apparatus (tippler) overhang relative to the container, so that the container handling apparatus is
guided by contact with the walls of the guide apparatus into a position in which it can engage with a
container positioned on the base.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
