                            Abstract
      A  card disposal apparatus       for a table game in the
present invention includes an ejection port           (4) for
disposing of cards     (3) after the game,     and includes a
disposal card receiving board         (5) that receives the cards
 (3) from the ejection port      (4),   disposal card information
acquisition means    (6) that acquires      information about
number    (rank) from the cards     (3) put in the ejection port
 (4),  group information acquisition means        (7) that
acquires group information from the cards          (3) to be
disposed of, a counter     (8) for the cards as number count
means that counts the number of the disposal cards            (3)
put in the ejection port      (4),   deck check means    (13) that
checks whether all cards      (3h) to be disposed of are
complete in terms    of 52 x 8 decks = 416 in the case of a
set of 8 decks of cards, and output means          (10) that
outputs a check result.      Void holes are provided on the
cards to be disposed of, and ensure that the cards are
perfectly disposed of without being unfairly reused.

    Fig.1
                                        2
                                  3           3
             SET OF[              i[
400         DECKS OF.                     .           CARDS
                                                    AFTER GAME
                                     CARD 3c 10ATRGM
          I   ~~~~CUT
        3r                        3r
                      REMAINING CARDS
 406 406200            AFTER CUT CARD
                              406

                           -  1
         CARD DISCARDING DEVICE FOR TABLETOP GAME
Technical Field
[0001]
     The present invention relates to a card disposal
apparatus for a table game that has a function to prevent
cards used in a card game from being unfairly taken out
and to detect whether a predetermined number of cards
have been surely disposed of, and particularly, to an
apparatus that allows cards   that should be disposed of,
to be surely contained in a disposal card stocker.
Background Art
[0002]
     There is a possibility of an unfair behavior in
which cards are  swapped on a game table during a game for
achieving a self-advantageous game.    International
Publication No. WO 2013/172038 discloses a prevention
apparatus against this kind of unfair behavior.    In the
literature, determination is made as to whether the
number of the cards having appeared in the table game
coincides with the number of the cards used in each game.
The cards having appeared in the table game are put in an
ejection port, and void holes or cutouts are provided on
the used cards.   The void cards are received by a

                            - 2
disposal card carton, and are disposed of    (Patent
Literature 1).
[00031
     In the case where the void holes or the cutouts are
provided on the cards used in the table game and the void
cards are received by an individual disposal card carton
and are disposed of, there is a problem in that a labor
is required for the exchange of the carton and the
disposal for each carton, and a labor is required for a
management under which the disposal    for each carton is
surely performed.
Citation List
Patent Literature
[0004]
     Patent Literature 1:   International Publication No.
WO 2013/172038
Summary of Invention
Technical Problem
[00051
     The conventional apparatus confirms whether cards
equivalent to a predetermined number of decks contained
in a dealing shoe on the game table    (for example, in the
case of using 8 decks, the number of the cards    is 52  x 8
decks = 416)  are complete.   Then, the cards are put in
the disposal card carton and are disposed of.     Therefore,

                           - 3
there is a problem in that a labor is  required for the
exchange of the carton and the disposal for each carton,
and a labor is required for a management   for each carton
under which the disposal for each carton is surely
performed.
[00061
     The present invention has been made in such a
context, and an object of the present invention is to
provide a card disposal apparatus that has   a structure of
checking whether the cards to be disposed of after the
use on the game table are complete in terms of a
predetermined number  (for example, in the case of using 8
decks, the predetermined number is 52 x 8 decks = 416),
and then making the cards to be sequentially contained in
multiple pockets of a disposal card stocker of the card
disposal apparatus, and that realizes an absolute
disposal operation by the multiple pockets partitioned by
multiple partitions.  Further,  for avoiding the cards
from being reused after the number check, the disposal
card stocker includes a locking device.   Thereby, it is
possible to absolutely prohibit an unfair reuse of the
cards.
Solution to Problem
[0007]
     For solving the conventional problem, a card
disposal apparatus in the present invention is a card

disposal apparatus that disposes of cards dealt on a game
table from a dealing shoe, after use in a game,
     the card disposal apparatus including:
     an ejection port that receives the cards to be
disposed of;
     a counter that counts and stores the number of the
cards received through the ejection port;
     a disposal card stocker that receives the cards put
in the ejection port; and
     deck check means that determines whether all cards
put in the ejection port are complete in terms of a
number equivalent to a predetermined number of decks,
     the disposal card stocker including multiple pockets
that are partitioned by multiple partitions, each of the
pockets having a structure capable of sequentially
receiving cards that are dealt from the dealing shoe,
that are used in the game and that are collected, and
capable of receiving all cards that remain in the dealing
shoe without being used,
     the deck check means totally counting the number of
cards that are used in each game and that are counted by
the counter and the number of the cards that remain in
the dealing shoe without being used, and determining
whether the disposed cards are complete in terms of the
number equivalent to the predetermined number of decks,
     the multiple pockets of the disposal card stocker
having structures capable of moving relative to a main

                           - 5
body of the apparatus and capable of receiving different
sets of cards respectively, and further having structures
of being detachable from the main body of the apparatus.
Advantageous Effects of Invention
[00081
     The card disposal apparatus for the table game in
the present invention provides a card disposal apparatus
that does not require the management of an individual
carton because of the multiple pockets partitioned by the
multiple partitions, and that realizes an absolute
disposal operation of the cards that  should be disposed
of.  Further, for avoiding the cards from being reused
after the number check, the disposal card stocker
includes a locking device.   Thereby, it is possible to
absolutely prohibit an unfair reuse of the cards.
Brief Description of Drawings
[00091
[Figure 1]  Figure 1 is a plan view of a table game system
in an embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure 2]  Figure 2 is a plan view of a cut card in the
embodiment of the present invention.
[Figure 3]  Figure 3 is a perspective view of a card
disposal apparatus of the table game system in the
embodiment.

                            - 6
[Figure 4]  Figure 4 is  a sectional side view of the card
disposal apparatus in the embodiment of the present
invention.   Figure 4 is a diagram showing a relation
between a code constituted of marks M printed as card
information and output waveforms of two UV sensors of a
card information acquisition sensor.
[Figure 5]  Figure 5(a),  Figure 5(b) and Figure 5(c) are
perspective views showing the function of a weight of the
card disposal apparatus.
[Figure 6]  Figure 6 is  a plan view of a state where a lid
of the disposal   card stocker in the embodiment is  removed.
[Figure 7]  Figure 7 is  a plan view of the lid of the
disposal card stocker in the embodiment.
[Figure 8]  Figure 8 is  a plan view of a card in
Embodiment 1 of the present invention.
[Figure 9]  Figure 9 is  a plan view showing a card in a
state where a void hole is provided by void means    (punch
device).
Description of Embodiments
[0010]
      (Embodiment 1)
     Embodiment 1 of the present invention will be
described with reference to the drawings.    In Figure 1, a
card disposal apparatus 1 that   is a card disposal
apparatus for a table game in Embodiment 1 of the present
invention is provided on a game table 2 or is arranged on

a side surface of the game table 2.      The game table 2
shown in Figure 1, which is    shown in a simplified figure,
is  a game table for an ordinary baccarat game.      As is
well known, the baccarat game is played by a player and a
banker.   On the game table 2,   a dealing shoe 200 is
provided.   The dealing shoe 200 is    a source of card 3,
and the cards 3 fed from the dealing shoe 200 are dealt
to the player.    Then, after the finish of a game,    the
disposal process for the cards     3 is performed by the card
disposal apparatus 1.    Embodiment 1 is a card disposal
apparatus that disposes of the cards     3 contained in the
dealing shoe 200 placed on the game table 2 and manually
dealt on the game table 2 by a dealer or the like, after
the use in the game, and is    a card disposal apparatus
including, as basic constituents, a set of multiple decks
of cards 3   (ordinarily, 6, 8 or 12 decks) contained in
the dealing shoe 200 and the card disposal apparatus 1
that disposes of collected cards     3a.
[0011]
      A cut card 3c is  inserted into a set 3s of the cards
3 before the setting in the dealing shoe 200 on the game
table 2.   The cut card 3c is   inserted into a latter part
 (the rest is  about one-fourth or one-fifth) of the     set 3s
of the cards   3, when the set 3s of the cards 3 is used in
the game, and is used for finishing the game on the game
table 2 in a state where about 20     to 40 cards  3 remain in
the dealing shoe 200,   in order to prevent the player from

                              - 8
predicting the ranks of a small number of remaining cards
by counting the ranks of the cards dealt during the game
 (see Figure   1).  Figure 2 shows a plan view of the cut
card 3c.
[0012]
      The card disposal apparatus 1 has a structure
capable of sequentially receiving the cards 3a that are
used in each game and that are collected, and receiving
all cards 3r that remain in the dealing shoe 200 without
being used, when the game is stopped at a predetermined
timing after the cut card 3c appears from the dealing
shoe 200   (at a timing of the finish of the next game or
2-3  games after   the cut card 3c is drawn) . The card
disposal apparatus 1, with card desk check means
described later, totally counts the number of the cards
3a after the use in each game and the number of the cards
3r that are not used and remain in the dealing shoe 200
after the cut card 3c appears from the dealing shoe 200,
and determines whether all disposed cards are complete in
terms of the number equivalent to the predetermined
number of decks.
[0013]
      Next, the detail of the card disposal apparatus 1
will be described with Figures 3 to 7.     The card disposal
apparatus   1 includes an ejection port 4 for disposing of
the cards 3a after the game that are dealt on the game
table 2 for each game.     The card disposal apparatus  1 is

                             -  9
configured to include a disposal card receiving board 5
that receives the disposal-target cards 3a from the
ejection port 4, disposal card information acquisition
means 6 that acquires the    information about number    (rank)
and kind  (suit) from the cards    3a put in the ejection
port 4, group information acquisition means 7 that
acquires group information from the disposal cards       3a, a
counter 8 for the cards as count means that counts the
number of the disposal cards 3a put in the ejection port
4, authenticity determination means     9 that compares the
group information of the cards acquired by the group
information acquisition means 7 to predetermined group
information, and determines whether the group information
of the cards  coincides with the predetermined group
information, and output means     10 that outputs the
determination result by the determination means.       The
card disposal apparatus 1 includes deck check means 13
that integrates the information acquired by the disposal
card information acquisition means     6 and the information
of the counter  8, measures the number of the cards      3 at
least for each number    (rank),  and determines whether the
number of the cards 3 put in the ejection port 4 is
complete in terms   of a predetermined number.     The card
disposal apparatus 1 includes a control device 14 that
controls the whole operation, and each means described
above is arranged in the control device      14, to control
each operation.   The control device 14    is constituted by

                            -  10
electronic circuits including a microcomputer, a memory
and the like, and includes constituents of an ordinary
computer, as exemplified by a CPU, a ROM and a RAM.        By
executing a program stored in memories such as the ROM,
the control device   14 controls the whole of the apparatus,
and performs necessary processes.
[0014]
      The detail of the card disposal apparatus 1 will be
further described.    The cards   3 after the use in the game
are inserted into the ejection port 4, and are disposed
of.  A weight 56 is   arranged above the disposal card
receiving board 5 that receives the disposal-target cards
3.  The weight 56 is provided for pressing the cards        3
onto the disposal card receiving board 5 and assisting in
surely feeding the cards 3 toward a feeding roller 15,
even when the disposal-target cards      3 are folded during
the game, and is configured to press both ends of the
cards   3 downward by weight rollers 57,    58.   Although the
ejection port 4 receives the cards 3 from the direction
indicated by an arrow P as shown in Figure 5(a),       the
weight 56 has a structure capable of moving upward        (this
state   is shown in Figures 5(b) and 5(c))     such that the
cards   3 in a bundle state can be also received.
[0015]
      The feeding roller 15   for feeding, one by one, the
disposal cards 3 placed on the disposal card receiving
board 5 by hand is provided below the disposal card

                              - 11
receiving board 5.      The feeding roller 15 is   rotated and
driven by a drive motor 16.      As the drive motor   16,  a
stepping motor is used.      When the cards  3 are placed on
the disposal card receiving board 5, a card sensor 17
detects this, the control device 14 controls the drive
motor 16,   and the feeding roller    15 rotates.   In this way,
the cards 3 on the disposal card receiving board 5 are
fed by the    feeding roller 15.   The cards 3 fed from the
feeding roller 15 are further transferred toward the
direction    (arrow D)  of a disposal card stocker 19,    by a
pair of transferring rollers 18.      The transferring
rollers 18 are driven and controlled by a transferring
motor 16f, and the driving speed is      set such that the
cards   3 are transferred at a higher speed than a speed at
which the cards     3 are transferred by the   feeding roller
15.  Therefore, the cards 3 are surely transferred in the
direction    (arrow D)  of the disposal card stocker 19,     such
that the cards 3 are pulled by the transferring rollers
18.  The cards    3 to be transferred pass through a group
information acquisition sensor 20      and two card
information acquisition sensors 21      in the middle of the
transfer, and here, the information of the cards 3 are
detected and acquired.
[0016]
      The group information acquisition sensor 20      is
connected with the group information acquisition means 7
that acquires the group information from the cards        3.

                               -   12
The card information acquisition sensor 21            is connected
with the disposal card information acquisition means 6
that acquires the information about the number            (rank)
from the cards 3,      and the   information about the number
 (rank)  is   acquired.   The cards   3 to be transferred     to the
disposal card stocker 19 are detected by the counter 8
connected with the card sensor 17,         and the number of the
passing cards 3 is counted.         The signal of the group
information acquisition sensor 20         is transmitted to the
group information acquisition means         7.  The authenticity
determination means      9 compares the group information of
the card 3 acquired by the group information acquisition
means   7, to the predetermined group information that is
previously stored, and determines whether the group
information of the card 3 coincides with the
predetermined group information.         When the group
information of the card 3 does not coincide with the
predetermined group information, the authenticity
determination means      9 determines that the card 3 is a
fake card, and the control device 14         lights an indication
lamp 22     through the output means 10 that outputs the
determination result, and sends the existence of the fake
card to a management division 400         or the   like of a casino
or the like, through a communication line 406.
[0017]
      When the authenticity determination means 9
determines that the card 3 is a fake card, the control

                             -  13
device 14 transmits the information to void means 36,       and
the void means 36 punches, in the card 3, one or two
special void holes H indicating that the card 3 is
abnormal.   The card 3 after the determination by the
authenticity determination means 9 is      transferred to the
disposal card stocker 19 through an opening 19M.        The
card disposal apparatus 1 has a disposal card passage
structure that is    closed such that the card cannot be
taken off until the card 3 reaches a pocket 19c for the
disposal card in the disposal card stocker 19.       The card
3h to be disposed of, in which the void hole H is punched
in order to avoid the use for another purpose, falls in
the pocket 19c for the disposal card, together with void
waste.
[0018]
     When the card 3 is transferred toward the disposal
card stocker 19,   the card information acquisition sensor
21 and the group information acquisition sensor 20 each
acquire the information.     After the determination that
the card 3 is an authentic card, the void means 26 bores
the void hole H allowing the card 3 not to be used
afterward, in the card 3.      Therefore, the card 3 to be
transferred toward the disposal card stocker 19 passes
through the void means 26.      The void means 26 bores the
void hole H in the card 3, by hole boring means       (a punch
and die,  or the like)  .  The card  3h having the void hole
H bored falls in the pocket 19c for the disposal card in

                               -  14
the disposal card stocker 19.        Although the void hole H
is bored by the void means 26 in the embodiment, a cutout
may be provided at a corner of the card 3,        or a void mark
may be given by printing means using a known stamp of
laser.    Thus,   for avoiding   the reuse of the card after
the disposal process and the check, the void hole or the
void mark is provided on the card, so that an unfair
reuse of the card is absolutely prohibited.
 [0019]
       The disposal card stocker 19 is provided with a lid
19f that allows the disposal card 3h to be taken off
afterward.     The lid 19f is provided with disposal card
locking means 27,     which prevents the disposal card 3h
from being unfairly taken off during the movement of the
disposal card stocker 19.        When the disposal card stocker
19 is detached from the main body of the card disposal
apparatus    1, a cover 28   for takeoff, which is provided at
an upper part of the card disposal apparatus        1, is   opened.
The cover 28     is provided with an unfair-behavior
prevention device 25 that restricts the operation of the
cover 28,   and the control device 14 controls the unfair
behavior prevention device 25 such that only an
authorized operator can open the cover 28 using a key or
the like.     The disposal card locking means 27 performs
the lock control of the opening and closing of the          lid
19f, so that only the authorized operator can open the
lid 19f using the key or the like, and prevents an unfair

                               -  15
takeoff of the disposal card 3h from the disposal card
stocker 19.   The shape of the lid 19f is designed such
that an interspace R    is made between the main body side
and lid 19f of the disposal card stocker 19,           for allowing
the card 3h transferred by the transferring rollers 18 to
be received and put in the pocket 19c.
[0020]
     Next, the deck check means 13 will be described.
Ordinarily, multiple decks       (4, 6 or 8 decks) of cards are
set in the dealing shoe 200        (electronic shoe) placed on
the game table 2.    The   set 3s    of the cards    is given in a
state  (package 404) where the multiple decks of cards are
shuffled and packed, and each different bar code 403 is
provided  on the package     404   (see  Figure 3) .   From the bar
code 403,  the ID information identifying an individual
set 3s of cards   is read by a reading device 100          arranged
on the game table 2, and from the ID information, the set
3s of cards to be used in the game is         identified.     Then,
the set 3s of cards is     set in the dealing shoe 200,        and
is given for each game.       In the set 3s of cards      set in
the dealing shoe 200,    all    cards   are not used.    At  the
beginning of each game,      the cut card    (reference character
3c in Figure 2)   is inserted into the set 3s of multiple
decks  (4, 6 or  8 decks) of cards,       for a reason of the
security of the game.     When the cut card 3c appears, the
remaining cards   3r in the dealing shoe 200 are not used

                             - 16
any more.   All the remaining cards     3r are put in the
ejection port 4 for disposal.
[0021]
      All the remaining cards 3r are put in the ejection
port 4 for disposal, and from the remaining cards 3r,          the
information about the number      (rank) is acquired by the
disposal card information acquisition means        6.   The deck
check means 13 integrates the information of the counter
8 for the cards as the count means, with the information
about the number    (rank) acquired from the remaining cards
3r by the disposal card information acquisition means          6
and at least the information about the number         (rank)
acquired from each card 3a already used in each game,          and
counts the number of the cards      for each card number
 (rank).  Then,  the deck check means    13 determines    whether
all cards placed on the game table and put in the
ejection port 4 are complete in terms       of the number
equivalent to the predetermined number of decks for all
numbers   (ranks)  (416 cards,  ace to king,   4 kinds x 8
decks, for example).
[0022]
      The total number of the cards 3 to be used in the
table game   (ordinarily, any of 4,    6, 8,  10 and 12 decks)
is previously determined in the casino or the         like.  For
example, in the case of 8 decks, the number of the cards
3 is 52  x 8 decks = 416,   and 8 cards are used for each
card kind having the    same suit and rank.     In the deck

                               -  17
check means 13,   the control device      14 determines whether
the number of cards is     complete for each card kind, and
the output means 10 to output the result lights the
indication lamp 22    in a color that is different depending
on the result.    At the   same time, communication means 406
sends the count result of the cards        3 to the management
division 400   or the like of the casino or the       like.
[0023]
     To sum up the cards 3h already disposed of in the
pocket 19c of the disposal card stocker 19 and the cards
3r placed collectively on the disposal card receiving
board 5 in the ejection port 4 without being used in the
game  (the cards   3r are also preserved in the pocket 19c
of the disposal card stocker 19),        all the cards  initially
set in the dealing shoe 200, whose number is 52 x 8 decks
= 416, are preserved in the pocket 19c.         In the case of
the set 3s of 8 decks of cards, the deck check means 13
checks whether 32    cards   (416 cards in total) exist for
each of the 13 ranks of cards, based on the information
acquired from all cards whose number is 52         x 8 decks =
416.   In this way, the deck check means 13 confirms that
the 416 cards are complete.
[0024]
     The use of the set      (for example, 8 decks) of cards
in the dealing shoe 200 is       finished, and all cards are
preserved in the pocket 19c,        as described above.
Thereafter, the bar code 403 attached to the package 404

                              -  18
that packs the set 3s of cards       for identifying the   set 3s
of cards in the pocket 19c is inserted into the pocket
19c.   In this case, not only the bar code 403 but also
the package 404 may be inserted into the pocket 19c.
When the package 404 and the bar code 403 are        inserted
into the pocket 19c, trash is not made around the table
in the casino, and there is       an advantage  in terms of
arrangement.    The package 404     and the bar code 403 enter
the pocket 19c through a slit 28s formed on the cover 28
for takeoff and a slit 19s provided on the lid 19f.          The
cover 28   for takeoff may have a structure in which the
lock is unlocked and the cover 28       is opened upward, and
the package 404 and the bar code 403 may enter the pocket
19c through the    slit 19s.    Thus, the use of the   set  (for
example, 8 decks) of cards      in the dealing shoe 200    is
finished, all cards are preserved in the pocket 19c,          and
the bar code 403 used for identifying the set 3s of cards
is also put in the same pocket 19c.
[0025]
     When all cards of the set       (for example,  8 decks) in
the dealing shoe 200 are preserved in the pocket 19c and
the bar code 403 is put in,       the dealer actuates a
rotation device 28     (a stepping motor or the like) through
a switch   (not illustrated) or the like, and the disposal
card stocker 19 rotates around a rotation shaft 19r by 40
degrees   (arrow W) .  The disposal    card stocker 19  is
sectioned such that     9 pockets 19c are provided.     When the

                                -   19
disposal card stocker 19 rotates by 40 degrees               (arrow W),
an adjacent empty pocket 19c           (see Figure 6) is    located at
a position enabling to receive the next set 3s of cards
to be disposed of.
 [0026]
        The disposal card stocker 19 includes the multiple
pockets 19c partitioned by multiple partitions, and each
of the pockets 19c has       a size enabling to sequentially
receive cards 3h      (for example,      416 cards) that are dealt
from the dealing shoe, that are used in the game and that
are collected.      Then, when the game is       stopped at the
predetermined timing, the disposal card stocker 19,                in
which all cards of the set 3s in the dealing shoe 200 and
the bar code 403 are put, rotates around the rotation
shaft 28r,     so that the adjacent empty pocket 19c reaches
the position for receiving the disposal cards             3h    (the
state     in Figure 4) .  The pockets      19c have a structure
capable of sequentially receiving sets 3s of cards to be
disposed of and receiving 9 sets.            At the center of the
disposal card stocker 19,         a shaft hole 19h that receives
the rotation shaft 28r is provided.            The disposal card
stocker 19 rotates while being guided by the shaft hole
19h.
 [0027]
        When the disposal card stocker 19 is detached from
the main body of the card disposal apparatus             1, the cover
28    for takeoff, which is provided at the upper part of

                              -  20
the card disposal apparatus 1,       is opened, and the
disposal card stocker 19 is       taken off upward while being
guided by the shaft hole 19h.        Since the unfair-behavior
prevention device 25 that restricts the operation of the
cover 28   is provided on the cover 28,      only the authorized
operator can perform the takeoff.        In the card stocker 19
detached from the main body of the card disposal
apparatus   1, an open part 19x at an upper part is covered
with the lid 19f    (Figure 7),    and therefore, the cards 3h
to be disposed of cannot be taken off.         The disposal card
locking means 27    locks the lid 19f to the card stocker 19,
and only the authorized operator can open the         lid 19f
using the key or the     like and can dispose of the disposal
cards  3h.
[0028]
     Next, the card 3 to be used in the table game in the
embodiment of the present invention will be described
with Figure 8.    On the card 3, codes     102 that are codes
of the number of the card 3 and that are constituted of
ordinarily invisible marks M are provided at the upper
side and lower side of the card 3, in a point-symmetric
manner.   The code   102 is  constituted of the combination
of the number and arrangement of multiple marks M printed
with an infrared light sensitive ink or ultraviolet light
sensitive ink that is     invisible under daylight.      Further,
on the card 3, group code       information 103 that   is a code
of the information indicating the authenticity of the

                                    - 21
card, that       is arranged by printing or the like in an
ordinarily invisible state            (for example, an ultraviolet
light      sensitive ink),     and that   is used as an authenticity
determination code is provided.             The code  102 and the
group code       information 103 are arranged at least at two
spots on the card 3, and are arranged at positions that
are point-symmetric with respect to the center of the
card 3.
 [0029]
         The codes     102 are read by the two card information
acquisition sensors 21           constituting the card information
acquisition sensors 21.            The card information acquisition
sensor 21      is   configured to output an output signal when
detecting the marks M           (a known ultraviolet light
sensitive      optical     sensor or the like   is  used) .  Figure 8
shows a relation between the outputs of ON signals of the
two UV sensors          (the electric signal output when the code
102 constituted of the marks M            is read) and the marks M.
A predetermined combination of the marks M can be
identified, based on the comparison result of relative
changes in the outputs of the ON signals of the two UV
sensors      for the codes      102 constituted of the marks M.     As
a result, in the embodiment shown in Figure 8,              4 kinds of
codes can be configured as the combinations of 2 marks on
upper and lower rows, and when 4 rows are printed, 256
kinds of codes can be configured because of the fourth
power of 4 kinds.           Each of the 52 card kinds of the trump

                             - 22
cards  is assigned to one of the 256     kinds of codes, and
the assignment is   stored in the memory or program, as a
comparison table.    The disposal card information
acquisition means 6 identifies each code 102,       and thereby,
can identify at least the number      (rank) of the card 3,
based on the previously determined comparison table         (not
illustrated).   It  is preferable that the codes     102 be
printed with a coating material that      is visualized by
receiving ultraviolet light, and be printed at positions
where the codes   102 do not overlap with kind signs      301
and indexes  302 of the card 3.     Further, a space part 303
is provided among the code     102, the group code
information 103 and the edge of the card 3.       Further, the
group code  information 103 may be printed at the same
spot together with the code 102,     with an ink indicating
the group code information.
[00301
     Next, the authenticity determination means 9 that
determines the authenticity of the card based on the
information about the authenticity of the card 3 will be
described.   On the card 3 that is the target of the
authenticity check, the group code information 103 as the
group information that is a code of the information
indicating the authenticity of the card 3 and that        is
configured in an ordinarily invisible state       (for example,
an ultraviolet light    sensitive ink) is provided as
described above.    The group code   information 103,   as a

                            - 23
code,  is composed of a substance or a material itself
 (for example, an ink or a coating material) that emits
lights having different wavelength spectra in response to
lights having different wavelengths.    The authenticity
determination means  9 has a function to perform the
authenticity determination of the card 3, that     is, the
group information acquisition sensor 20    irradiates the
group code  information 103 with invisible lights having
different wavelengths and receives at least two
different-wavelength lights of the lights emitted from
the group code information 103, and the authenticity
determination means  9 determines whether the ratio of the
intensities of these lights is the same.     A more complex
analysis with lights having two or more wavelengths may
be performed by receiving lights having different
wavelength spectra.
[0031]
      In the reading of the group code information 103,
the group information acquisition sensor 20    emits two
kinds of ultraviolet   lights, and irradiates the group
code information 103 printed on the card 3.     Then, the
group information acquisition sensor 20    receives lights
having different wavelength spectra that are emitted by
the group code information 103.    The control device   14
including the authenticity determination means 9 is
constituted by electronic circuits including a
microcomputer, a memory and the like, and includes

                            - 24
constitutes of an ordinary computer, as exemplified by a
CPU,  a ROM and a RAM.   The control device  14 performs  a
process to determine the authenticity of the group code
information 103.
[0032]
      Each of the following functions configures a part of
the invention in the present application, as an
improvement of the embodiment.
      1) The present invention includes means    (dealing
shoe)   for acquiring at least the information about each
number   (rank) and the number of cards  in the set of
several   cards dealt on the game table for the use in each
game, and the card disposal apparatus and the dealing
shoe are connected with a communication device.
      2)  The present invention has an unfair-behavior
check technology of comparing the rank information of
each card of the card set obtained from a card dealing
device   (dealing shoe) and the information of each card of
the disposal cards read by the card disposal apparatus,
checking whether the two pieces of information coincide,
and thereby checking the abnormity of the disposal card
in each game.
      3)  The deck check means acquires the number   (rank)
information of the cards that remain without being used
in each game after being placed on the game table, from
the disposal card information acquisition means, counts
the number of cards for each card number    (rank), with the

                            - 25
number   (rank) information of cards of each card set that
are used in each game and that have been already obtained,
and checks whether all cards put in the ejection port are
complete in terms   of a number equivalent to a
predetermined number of decks for each number    (rank).
[00331
     In the above, the embodiments of the present
invention have been described.    It is natural that the
above-described embodiments can be modified within the
scope of the present invention by those skilled in the
art.   For example, the present invention may detect an
unfair behavior in games other than the baccarat.     In
this case, the apparatus in the embodiment may be
appropriately modified, if needed in a game to which the
present invention is applied.

                          - 26
                          Claims
1.  A card disposal apparatus that disposes of cards
dealt on a game table from a dealing shoe, after use in a
game,
   the card disposal apparatus comprising:
   an ejection port that receives the cards to be
disposed of;
   a disposal card stocker that receives the cards put in
the ejection port;  and
   the disposal card stocker including multiple pockets
that are partitioned by multiple partitions, each of the
pockets having a structure capable of sequentially
receiving cards that are dealt from the dealing shoe,
that are used in the game and that are collected, and
capable of receiving all cards that remain in the dealing
shoe without being used,
   the multiple pockets of the disposal card stocker
having structures capable of moving relative to a main
body of the apparatus and capable of receiving different
sets of cards respectively, and further having structures
of being detachable from the main body of the apparatus
   wherein multiple decks of cards are given in a package
state where the multiple decks of cards are shuffled and
packed, each different bar code  is provided on the pack,
and the card disposal apparatus  further comprises a

                           -   27
reading device that reads    ID information identifying an
individual  set of cards from the bar code.
2.  The card disposal apparatus according to claim 1,
wherein the multiple partitioned pockets of the disposal
card stocker allow the bar code to be contained in the
pocket
3.  The card disposal apparatus according to any one of
claims 1 to 2, wherein the disposal card stocker further
has a locking device that prevents a takeoff of cards
that should be disposed of.
4.  The card disposal apparatus according to any one of
claims 1 to 3, further having void means that provides a
void hole or a void mark on the cards put in the ejection
port.
5.  The card disposal apparatus according to any one of
claims 1 to 3, further having deck check means that
determines whether all cards put in the ejection port are
complete in terms  of a number equivalent to a
predetermined number of decks.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
