This invention discloses a composite shell structure and method and apparatus for forming
same. The invention allows the use of a comparatively low cost double diaphragm method to
form shaped and laminated components of personal protective equipment or other moulded
composite products, such as a ballistic protective article (helmet). The method also allows
highly curved and deeply drawn articles (like helmets) to be manufactured out of non-spliced
sheet layers. The process advantageously utilises, as its feedstock, a stack of simple sheets of
material, with no additional cuts or splices. Accordingly, a manufacturing methodology is
provided with reduction in manual handling, material waste, and tooling and capital costs.

        Pin-wheel (left) and Petal spildng patterns used in contemporary manufacture of ballistic helmet shells.
                              (a)                                               (b)
                                                   FIGURE 1
    to'
I0
                      2                         .5PositivePressure Tool
                                                                 Inflatable
                                                               To Vacuum
    Friction Ring - .                  Uppr Ola        a
   30                                                             -Diaphragm                  Clamp - -Picture Frame*
So)I~        Teflon Release
                                                                Helmet Tool I Table Top
                                           To Vacuum
                                                   FIGURE 2

                                          -  1
                        COMPOSITE SHELL AND APPARATUS
                         AND METHOD FOR FORMING SAME
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5         A composite shell structure and method for forming same is disclosed.
   Also disclosed is an apparatus for use in forming the composite shell. The
   composite shell may comprise a ballistic protective article (eg a helmet).
   However, the disclosure is to be broadly interpreted, in that the composite shell
   may have applications to other articles of manufacture, such as storage devices,
10 luggage and computer hardware.
   BACKGROUND ART
           The manufacture of composite shell structures, and particularly those
   produced from low extensibility fabrics, remains a labour and capital intensive,
15 low volume process. Composite shell structures have applications in a diverse
   number of fields. The present specification will focus on the field of ballistic
   protection articles, and in particular ballistic helmets, however, it is to be
   understood that the present disclosure is not to be limited to this application.
           The majority of contemporary helmets for ballistic protection are made
20 from aramid/phenolic composite material. In this process the aramid fabric layers
   are cut into various geometric sections, for example 'pin-wheel' and 'petal' splice
   patterns (as shown in Figure 1), and carefully laid up in a laminate where the
   splices are overlapped. The fabric is wet with resin during the layup process. The
   layup is then placed on a male matched metal tool with inbuilt heating and
25 cooling jackets, in a driven press. The upper female matched metal tool is driven
   into the laminate forcing it to conform to the tool profile, using very high pressure
   and moderate temperatures to consolidate and form the material whilst curing the
   resin.
           The process typically can only accommodate a single thickness of article
30 and, as such, any changes to areal density requirements also require the
   manufacture of a new male tool.
                                                                  10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                            -  2
           After manufacture there is a significant amount of flash, due to the starting
   shape of the layers, which then must be trimmed to arrive at the final helmet
   shell. Because splicing and high pressures (which can lead to fibre breakage,
   wrinkling and crimping) are used, the ballistic performance of the final article is
 5 often inhomogeneous near the spliced areas.
           Furthermore the process itself is very slow, and labour and energy
   intensive.
           In summary, the current 'widespread' method of manufacturing composite
   shells, such as used for ballistic helmet manufacture, is a labour, energy and
10 capital intensive process consisting of:
           1.       Automated 'Gerber' cutting of spliced Aramid composite layers
           2.       Manual stacking and rotation of plies
           3.       Manual insertion of plies into heated matched metal tools
           4.       Use of dedicated tooling for each mould shape, meaning high
15                  tooling costs
           5.       Manual application of liquid phenolic (or powdered phenolic) resin
           6.       Very    high  pressure    and   forces,  automated          pressing             and
                    consolidation of fabric - eg, 300+ tons
           7.       Manual removal and trimming of helmet formed shell
20         It would therefore be desirable to provide a method of preparing
   composite shell structures that had increased production volumes, reduction in
   tooling costs and reduction in touch labour. It would further be desirable to
   provide a method of preparing composite shell structures that avoided or
   minimized the use of splicing of layers used to build the composite shell.
25         The above references to the background art do not constitute an
   admission that the art forms a part of the common general knowledge of a person
   of ordinary skill in the art. The above references are also not intended to limit the
   application of the apparatus and method as disclosed herein.
30 SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
           In a first aspect, there is disclosed a process of forming a composite shell
   structure comprising:
                                                                  10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                          -  3
            (a)    providing an assembly including a stack of polymer and/or polymer
                   precursor containing layers;
            (b)    placing one side of the assembly over a negative mould;
            (c)    applying vacuum (i) to the assembly and (ii) between the assembly
 5                 and the negative mould;
            (d)    applying positive pressure to the other side of the assembly while
                   the assembly is under tension to conform the assembly to the
                   negative mould at a temperature to form a moulded laminate of
                   the layers;
10          (e)    demoulding the moulded laminate.
            For ease of discussion, the term "polymer" will be herein used to include
   both polymers and polymer precursors ("prepolymers").
           The assembly is preferably sealed to enable a vacuum to be applied
   between the layers in the stack.
15         The assembly may comprise a double diaphragm assembly including a
   stack of polymer sheets between elastic diaphragms. In this embodiment, step (c)
   comprises applying vacuum (i) to the interior of the double diaphragm assembly
   and (ii) between the double diaphragm assembly and the negative mould.
           The stretch in the diaphragms allows the edges of the sheets to move and
20 accommodate the three-dimensional shape required during forming.
           The polymer containing layers may comprise polymer containing sheets.
   The polymer may be thermosetting or thermoplastic. In one embodiment, the
   polymer containing layers include both thermosetting and thermoplastic layers.
           The polymer containing sheets may comprise composite sheets that
25 include a polymer and fibres. The fibres are preferably high strength fibres that
   extend in the plane of the sheet to reinforce the sheet. The fibres may comprise
   ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE).             The fibres may be
   distributed in a polymer matrix. The polymer matrix may comprise polyethylene
   (e.g. HDPE or LDPE).          In other embodiments, the matrix may comprise
30 polyurethane or a thermoplastic rubber derivative.
                                                                10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                            -  4
            Step (c) may include cooling the moulded laminate, particularly where the
   polymer layers comprise a thermoplastic polymer. Where the polymer layers
   include a thermosetting polymer, the laminate may be demoulded hot.
            In one embodiment, the composite shell structure is a ballistic protective
 5 article (eg a helmet).
            In one embodiment, the negative mould is provided below a planar
   surface.
            In  one embodiment,        the polymer    sheets include        or comprise                   a
   thermoplastic ballistic fabric. The fabric may be a square woven, unidirectional
10 (UD) non-woven or a 0/90 biaxial fabric system or other highly drapable weave
   with a large locking angle. The thermoplastic ballistic fabric may be an ultra-high
   molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) based material, such as one available
   under the tradename Spectra or Dyneema. Such materials advantageously have
   a relatively high ballistic limit at a given weight, as compared with, for example,
15 Aramid, Glass Fibre Reinforced Plastic (GFRP), ballistic nylon, steel and
   aluminium. Alternatively, the inventors have surprisingly found that the polymer
   sheet may comprise or include structural grade UHMWPE tapes, such as those
   available under the trade names Dyneema BT10 or DuPont Tensylon. Such
   tapes typically are intended for vehicle armour applications, rather than personal
20 ballistic protection. The tape materials are highly directional wide strips of
   extruded UHMWPE layered into a sheet. When laminated, it has been found that
   3 point bend test results, from flat panels of laminated tape, show around twice
   the stiffness in comparison to UD fibre counterparts.
            In order to form an article with a high aspect ratio (e.g. a helmet) from
25 ballistic fabrics, some of the intrinsic limitations of ballistic fabrics must be
   overcome. Firstly, their high modulus and strength, combined with a lack of
   ductility, results in a system that, for all practical purposes (e.g. over short
   timeframes), does not deform plastically when force is applied. Secondly, and
   dependent upon weave geometry, most ballistic fabrics do not respond well to
30 double curvatures of the depth and radius typical of human anatomy; they wrinkle
   up.
                                                                 10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                          -  5
            In one embodiment, the "one side" and the "other side" are lower and
   upper sides respectively. This arrangement allows for escape of gases from
   between the laminate layers during and after forming, particularly where the
   sheets have low gas permeability. This is because the edges of the article are
 5 higher than the rest of the article during forming, meaning that gases are able to
   rise vertically through the article and escape from between the sheets at the
   article's edge where vacuum is being applied. Otherwise, if the edges of the
   article are lower than the rest of the article, the gases can become trapped
   between the layers during forming, resulting in imperfections.
10          In one embodiment, the sheets have minimal or no splicing prior to
   lamination. Preferably the sheets are non-spliced.
            In one embodiment, the positive pressure is applied using a male tool.
   The male tool may comprise a solid tool, and/or use gas or fluid pressure or any
   combination of these. The male tool may achieve initial forming of the part
15 followed by hydrostatic curing of the part. The male tool preferably includes a
   flexible component that is able to adapt to different profiles of the negative mould
   and thereby effect full forming of the laminate. The flexible component allows the
   female tool to be used with a range of negative mould profiles thereby reducing
   tooling costs, and allowing multiple areal densities to be produced in a single tool
20 set.
            In one embodiment, the double diaphragm assembly is held in planar
   tension, preferably substantially uniform radial tension, in the assembly plane
   during forming. The application of planar tension within the laminate stack assists
   to suppress wrinkling of the sheets during forming.
25          The means for holding a double diaphragm assembly in planar tension
   may be a friction ring or blank holder, preferably in the shape of an annulus.
            In one embodiment the friction ring is provided within the double
   diaphragm assembly. It is preferably provided between the stack of polymer
   sheets and the upper diaphragm.
30          In another embodiment, the friction ring is provided externally to the
   double diaphragm assembly. It is typically provided on the upper surface of the
   double diaphragm assembly.
                                                                  10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                         -  6
            In another embodiment, the planar tension may be non-uniform radial
   tension, such as to accommodate asymmetric parts or fibre weaves.
            In one embodiment, the polymer containing layers may be heated to a
   curing temperature. Where the polymer containing layers include a thermoplastic
 5 polymer, the layers may be preheated to at least a curing temperature prior to or
   after forming the double diaphragm stack. The polymer containing layers may be
   self adhesive, and/or may require a separate adhesive to be applied to them.
            Heating may be conducted prior to or during forming. The equipment may
   include means for heating the planar surface. Preferably, the heating means
10 comprises means for rapid thermal cycling of the planar surface, such that the
   sheets do not quench-cool when they are placed for forming. One method for
   rapid thermal cycling of the planar surface is inclusion of an induction coil
   beneath the surface. If this method is chosen, the planar surface is preferably
   constructed from a heat conductive material, such as metal. In one embodiment,
15 the metal is advantageously steel which will pick up the induction energy
   efficiently. In another embodiment, the metal is aluminium which is heated by
   resistive elements below the aluminium surface.
           The mould tool may include a jacket behind the mould surface, such that
   cooling or heating fluid can be passed therethrough (e.g. ethylene glycol, oil or
20 water).
           The male tool may also or instead be heated or cooled. Alternatively, the
   male tool may be comprised of an insulator.
           The process may further include an additional step (f) of trimming excess
   material ("flashing") from the moulded laminate. The laminate may be trimmed to
25 final shape using any suitable process, such as by a 3-D water-jet, laser or
   mechanical cutting process.
           The process therefore allows the use of a comparatively low cost double
   diaphragm method to form shaped and laminated components of personal
   protective equipment or other moulded composite products, from ballistic and
30 structural sheet materials (e.g. Kevlar, polyethylene, glass or carbon fibre
   fabrics). The process also allows highly curved and deeply drawn articles (like
   helmets) to be manufactured out of non-spliced sheet layers. The process
                                                               10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

   advantageously utilises, as its feedstock, a stack of simple sheets of material,
   with no additional cuts or splices. Accordingly, a manufacturing methodology is
   provided where splicing and hand layup of the materials is no longer required.
           In a second aspect, there is disclosed a composite shell structure formed
 5 from the process described above.
           In a third aspect, there is disclosed a composite shell structure comprising
   a formed laminate of non-spliced thermoplastic sheets. The composite shell
   structure may comprise a ballistic protective article.
           In a fourth aspect, there is disclosed equipment for carrying out the
10 process described above, including a negative mould with upwardly orientated
   opening, means for holding a double diaphragm assembly in tension over the
   negative mould opening, means for connecting the negative mould to a source of
   vacuum, and a male tool positioned and configured to apply pressure to the
   double diaphragm assembly whilst held in tension.
15         The equipment may further include a heater for heating the thermoplastic
   sheets to a curing temperature.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the
20 apparatus and method as set forth in the Summary, specific embodiments will
   now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying
   drawings in which:
           Figure 1 shows 'pin-wheel' (left) and 'petal' (right) splice patterns for fabric
   layers used in prior art manufacture of ballistic helmet shells.
25         Figure 2 is a cross sectional view of a first embodiment of apparatus of
   the present disclosure prior to engagement of the male tool in the negative
   mould.
           Figure 3 is a cross sectional view of the first embodiment of apparatus of
   the present disclosure after engagement of the male tool in the negative mould.
                                                                   10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                            -  8
            Figure 4 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a composite shell
   structure comprising a helmet shell.
            Figure 5 is a plot of V50 (m/s) versus areal density (kg/m2) for composite
   shell structures comprising either UHMWPE fibre sheets or UHMWPE tape.
 5          Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view of a second embodiment of apparatus
   of the present disclosure after engagement of the male tool in the negative
   mould.
            Figure 7 is a partially cut away, perspective view of a rig including the
   second embodiment of apparatus of the present disclosure.
10
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
            Referring firstly to Figure 1, examples of 'pin-wheel' (Figure 1a) and 'petal'
   (Figure 1b) splice patterns for prior art fabric are illustrated. One of these two
   geometric patterns is applied to multiple fabric sheets which are then arranged in
15 a stack with the splices overlapped prior to consolidation. The splices represent
   inherent areas of weakness in the formed article and the ballistic performance of
   the final article is therefore often inhomogeneous near the spliced areas.
            Referring now to Figure 2, a cross sectional view of an embodiment of
   apparatus 10 of the present disclosure is shown. The apparatus 10 is used to
20 produce helmets. The apparatus 10 includes a female tool 12 projecting below a
   planar surface 13. The female tool comprises a negative mould 14 having in this
   embodiment an inner profile 22 with a helmet shape. However, it will be
   appreciated that other mould shapes may instead be used, depending on the
   particular article that is desired to be formed. The apparatus 10 further includes a
25 composite male tool 16 that includes a primary rigid seating tool 18, a flexible
   component 20 and an upper sealing plate 17. The rigid seating tool 18 comprises
   an anvil 19a driven by a ram 19b. The flexible component 20 is comprised from
   silicone and may be inflatable and/or deformable to conform with the inner profile
   22 of the negative mould 14. The negative mould 14 also includes a vacuum port
30 24 for attachment to a vacuum source (not shown).
                                                                   10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                        -  9
           The assembly of the double diaphragm assembly 25 will now be
   described. A double diaphragm assembly 25 is laid on the planar surface 13 over
   the upwardly orientated opening of the female tool 12 tool. The double diaphragm
   assembly 25 includes, preferably nylon, upper and lower diaphragms 26a and
 5 26b, respectively, each of high elasticity, and a stack of ballistic composite
   sheets, in this case comprising UHMWPE composite sheets, 28 therebetween.
   The upper diaphragm 26a includes a vacuum port 27 for connection to a source
   of vacuum (not shown). The double diaphragm assembly 25 further includes
   respective sheets of breather fabric 30a, 30b, preferably polyester breather
10 fabric, placed adjacent the upper and lower diaphragms 26a and 26b. Upper 32a
   and lower 32b sheets of perforated Teflon release film are respectively provided
   either side of the stack of thermoplastic sheets. A friction ring 34 is provided
   between the upper release film 32a and upper breather fabric 30a.
           The operation of the apparatus 10 will now be described. The evacuated
15 double diaphragm assembly 25 containing the stack of composite sheets is held
   over the upwardly orientated opening of the female tool 12. The "picture frame"
   clamp 36 seals both diaphragms 26a and 26b and the inner profile 22 of the
   negative mould 14. Whilst holding the double diaphragm assembly 25, a primary
   vacuum was applied to the interior of the double diaphragm assembly 25 via
20 vacuum port 27. The vacuum level (and hence, localised pressure) is spread
   evenly through the double diaphragm assembly 25 by the use of breather fabrics
   30 a,b and perforated Teflon release films 32 a,b (so the laminated fabric does
   not adhere to the diaphragms, breather or friction ring) to thereby ensure even
   deformation within the diaphragms.
25         The stack of UHMWPE ballistic sheets 28 are heated to the required
   process temperature (5145'C), either before or after application of the primary
   diaphragm vacuum. The heating allows suitable softening of the adhesive and
   subsequent deformation.      Once an    isothermal temperature           is reached                 a
   secondary vacuum is then pulled via vacuum port 24 between the lower
30 diaphragm and the inner profile 22 of the negative mould 14 to partially draw the
   stack 28 into the negative mould 14, and ensure the mould is evacuated. Planar
   tension may be effected during the drawing process by a friction ring (a.k.a.
   "blank holder") 34, comprising an annular disk in this embodiment. Positive
                                                               10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                           -  10
   pressure was then applied to the upper side of the double diaphragm assembly
   25 by the composite male tool 16 in order to force the double diaphragm
   assembly 25 into the negative mould 14. As shown in Figure 3, the double
   diaphragm assembly 25 was driven toward the base 38 of the negative mould 14
 5 by a combination of the vacuum applied to vacuum port 24 and positive pressure
   of up to approximately 100 tonnes was applied by the primary rigid seating tool
   18. Once the double diaphragm assembly 25 was seated, and the sealing plate
   17 engages with the planar surface 13 surrounding the opening of the female tool
   12, the secondary, flexible component 20 was inflated to force the assembly 25
10 into conformance with the inner profile 22 of the negative mould 14 and to apply
   consolidation pressure (e.g. up to 10,000 kPa of air pressure) to the stack of
   thermoplastic sheets as they are cured to form a laminate.
           After forming the article, all external heating is removed and the laminate
   is cooled, under external pressure and internal vacuum, to < 50 deg. C. The
15 cured and cooled laminate is subsequently demoulded. The part is then trimmed
   with a 3D water jet cutter producing a helmet shell as per Figure 4.
           In one embodiment, the stack 28 was preheated prior to application of
   primary vacuum, which enabled a reduced cycle time to be achieved. In this
   embodiment, multiple stacks can be heated in an oven containing a full shift's
20 complement of materials sufficient for multiple articles. The laminates are
   preferably held iso-thermally, at a desired forming temperature. Experiments
   indicate that the stacks may not exhibit degradation when held in this manner for
   at least an 8 hour period. The planar surface onto which the stacks are loaded
   may also be heated to the desired forming temperature. The planar surface may
25 additionally include means for cooling the surface. The planar surface may
   additionally include means for cycling between desired forming and demoulding
   temperatures. The mould may also include means for heating and/or cooling the
   mould. The means may comprise a fluid jacket around the mould.
           A second embodiment 110 of the apparatus of the present disclosure is
30 shown in cross section in Figure 6, in which like reference numerals refer to like
   parts. The following discussion will focus on the differences between the second
   and first embodiments. Similarly to the first embodiment, the second embodiment
   includes a composite male tool 116 that includes a primary rigid (or solid) seating
                                                                  10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                           -  11
   tool 118 and a flexible component 120. The rigid seating tool 118 comprises a
   unitary steel component 119 comprising a ram 119b and anvil 119a with a
   Computer Numerical Control (CNC) machined profile that is common to the
   crown of all helmet sizes. The flexible component 120 comprises a silicone
 5 rubber tool 121 having a high elastomer hardness that is able to apply
   consolidation force radially.
            Figure 7 is a partially cut away, perspective view of a rig 100 including the
   second embodiment 110. The female tool 112/114 is provided as a tool insert
   115 which can be removed from the rig 100 and replaced with another tool insert
10 as required. In the rig 100, the friction ring 134 is located above the laminate
   stack 125, and outside the diaphragms, rather than within the diaphragms and in
   direct contact with the laminate stack as in the first embodiment 10. The friction
   ring 134 is held in place by suitable clamping means, in this case comprising
   friction ring pressure cylinders 135. The steel anvil 119 is operable by suitable
15 operating means, in this case comprising the positive pressure cylinder 140,
   which operates to seat the laminate stack into the female tool 112/114. The
   centre vertical arrow X in Figure 6 indicates the action of the primary (seating)
   stage. Following this, an actuating means, comprising a co-axial hydraulic
   cylinder (consolidation pressure cylinder 142), actuates, applying downward
20 pressure to the consolidation tool 120. The lateral vertical arrows in Figure 6
   indicate the secondary (consolidation) stage, which causes the generally radial
   consolidation force indicated by the small oblique arrows.
            A draw bead 144 is provided around the opening of the female tool
   112/114 to assist in reducing wrinkling of the part as it is molded.
25          As the consolidation tool 120 is a highly elastic material, it will approach a
   quasi iso-static pressure state when a force is applied and its volume is
   constrained. The benefit of this is that a more uniform consolidation force is
   applied to the helmet interior during curing and quenching.
            The rig 100 enables the production of a fully cured part in a single
30 automated process.
            Preheating of the stack/s may significantly reduce the overall process
   time. For example, in one embodiment, the process cycle time was reduced by
                                                                  10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                         -  12
   160 minutes to 15-25 minutes. Where the sheets comprise thermoplastic
   material, a process cycle may comprise the following steps/times: loading (1
   minute), forming (30 seconds), consolidation and cooling (17 min 30 sec) and
   demoulding (1 minute). When combinations of thermoplastic and thermosetting
 5 material are used the overall process time may be longer (such as by an
   additional 5 minutes) where heated fluid is passed behind the tool following the
   forming step in order to provide thermal energy for curing the thermoset. When
   thermosetting matrix composites are used without any thermoplastic materials
   present the overall process time may be significantly shorter (such as a reduction
10 of 20 minutes) where heated fluid is passed behind the tool following the forming
   step in order to provide thermal energy only for the duration required for curing
   the thermoset, followed by a 'hot' demould.
   Examples
15          Non-limiting Examples of a process for forming a composite shell
   structure will now be described to illustrate how the process may be applied, for
   example, to form a helmet.
   Example 1
20         Table 2 sets out the key process conditions for an example of the process
   for forming a composite shell structure, comprising a helmet. As noted, the stack
   of thermoplastic sheets comprised 11 Layers of 257 gsm Spectra 3136.
    Table 2 - Key Process Metrics:
   11 Layers of 250 gsm Spectra 3136,
             Property Measured                  Value                Comments
   Thermal/Temporal
   Heating Time                               1 - 8 hrs      Offline oven adjacent to
                                                                  forming facility.
                                                             Production shift banked
                                                                       in oven.
                                                               10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                              -  13
   Material Loading Temperature                   130-145*C        Differs for thermosetting
                                                                          matrix resins.
    Material Forming Temperature                  130-145*C                  As above
   Approximate Forming Time                         30 sec
   Consolidation Time                               3-5 min        Under pressure without
                                                                              cooling.
   Cooling Time                                   10-15 min        Differs for thermosetting
                                                                          matrix resins.
   Typical Demoulding Temperature                    37*C
   Pressures and Forces
   Estimated Forming Force                       10-20 tonnes      Proportional to clamping
                                                                    force on friction ring.
   Consolidation Pressure                         50-300 Bar
   Example 2
             Samples of composite shell structures constructed utilising the subject
   process have been subjected to on-going ballistic evaluation. Values of V50 (m/s)
 5 versus areal density (kg/M 2 ) for both UHMWPE fibre sheets and UHMWPE tape
   are plotted in Figure 5. The term "V50" means the velocity at which 50% of the
   projectiles penetrate the target and 50% are stopped. The data shows that there
   is little or no variation in ballistic performance across the surface of the samples.
             Whilst a number of specific embodiments of the process, composite shell
10 structure and equipment for carrying out the process have been described, it
   should be appreciated that the process, composite shell structure and equipment
   may be embodied in many other forms.
             Accordingly, the present disclosure may provide a number of advantages
   over the prior art, including:
15            0  Reduction in materials waste (from splicing).
              *  Reduction in manual handling.
              *  Adoption     of  materials     and     pre-pregs (e.g.      UHMWPE                   a.k.a.
                 Dyneema/Spectra) -         that exhibit reduced weight and increased
                 performance.
20            0  Reduction in tooling and capital costs.
                                                                      10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                           -  14
            In the claims which follow, and in the preceding description, except where
   the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
   the word "comprise" and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used
   in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
 5 preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of
   the apparatus and method as disclosed herein.
            Further patent applications may be filed in Australia or overseas on the
   basis of, or claiming priority from, the present application. It is to be understood
   that the following provisional claims are provided by use of example only and are
10 not intended to limit the scope of what may be claimed in any such future
   applications. Features may be added to or omitted from the provisional claims at
   a later date so is to further define or re-define the invention or inventions.
                                                                   10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                         - 15
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.      A process of forming a composite shell structure comprising:
           (a)    providing an assembly including a stack of polymer and/or polymer
 5                precursor containing layers;
           (b)    placing one side of the assembly over a negative mould;
           (c)    applying vacuum (i) to the assembly and (ii) between the assembly
                  and the negative mould;
           (d)    applying positive pressure to the other side of the assembly while
10                the assembly is under tension to conform the assembly to the
                  negative mould at a temperature to form a moulded laminate of
                  the layers;
           (e)    demoulding the moulded laminate.
15 2.      The process of claim 1, wherein the assembly comprises a double
   diaphragm assembly in which the stack of polymer sheets is provided between
   elastic diaphragms and step (c) comprises applying vacuum (i) to the interior of
   the double diaphragm assembly and (ii) between the double diaphragm assembly
   and the negative mould.
20
   3.      A composite shell structure formed from the process of claim 1 or 2.
   4.      A composite shell structure comprising a formed laminate of non-spliced
   polymer and/or prepolymer containing layers.
25
   5.      Equipment for carrying out the process of claim 1, including a negative
   mould with upwardly orientated opening, means for holding a double diaphragm
   assembly over the negative mould opening, means for connecting the negative
   mould to a source of vacuum, and a male tool positioned and configured to apply
                                                               10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

                                - 16
pressure to the double diaphragm assembly while the assembly is held in
tension.
                                                   10349756_1 (GHMatters) P103839.AU.1 7/06/18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
