Abstract for <removed-apn>
A system for monitoring and managing of resources in the cloud, comprising the user interface layer
and the processing layer. The user interface layer is used to obtain the data submitted by users and
display the monitoring information, and contains the following four modules: Machine Management
Module; used to obtain the current status of machines in cluster, and display these information output
to users. Workgroup Monitoring Module; displays the history, real-time traffic information, and http
connection status of each workgroup depending on the request of users; used to show the data
receiving and sending rates, and the distribution of HTTP Status Codes in any possible period.
Workgroup Management Module; used to check, add, modify and delete the workgroups in cluster.
Task List Module; used to display the execution status of all operations. The processing layer is used
to obtain the managing data of the cluster and execute the configuration script, and contains following
three modules: Monitoring Processing Module; used to obtain the running status of the cluster based
on user requests. Configuration Execution Module; used to execute the configuration based on the
inputs of users, covering the following steps. Logging Module; defines a standard API for reporting
errors and status information from applications.
Created by Examiner                             28/5/2018                                           Page 1

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

Title of invention:
A method for monitoring and managing the resources in cloud
Technical Field:
This invention relates to a new system and method for monitoring and managing the
resources in cloud based on Nginx.
Background:
As a type of lightweight reverse proxy and email proxy server, Nginx has been widely
applied in the load balancing in cluster systems. However, when Nginx is deployed or
its configuration needs to be changed, users must modify the corresponding code of
configuration script manually. On the other hand, Nginx can neither monitor the
backend resources of the cluster efficiently, nor reasonably assign user requests
depending on the load of nodes in cluster. So, this invention intends to provide a new
system that can be applied to fast deploying of Nginx. And the system can also improve
the performance, reliability and stability of cluster by providing the
preconfiguration files or by modify the configuration script automatically.
Description:
The system is mainly made up of the user interface layer and the processing layer.
The user interface layer is used to obtain the data submitted by users and display the
monitoring information. It contains the following four modules.
    (1) Machine Management Module. This module is used to obtain the current status
        of machines in cluster, and display these information output to users. More
        specifically, its functions includes:
            a. Obtaining the machine list of the cluster, including the names and types,
                the IP addresses, and the workgroup of each machine.
            b. Monitoring the machine status, and displaying output the names, IDs, IP
                addresses,      SSH    ports,   SSH     user    names,    release statuses,
                the types of the node, and the hardware information including CPU,
                memory, hard disk and network card.
    (2) Workgroup Monitoring Module. This module can display the history, real-time
        traffic information, and http connection status of each workgroup depending on
        the request of users. It is used to show the data receiving and sending rates, and
        the distribution of HTTP Status Codes in any possible period.
    (3) Workgroup Management Module. This module is used to check, add, modify
        and delete the workgroups in cluster. More specifically, its functions includes:
            a. Checking the workgroups list: Return the information of all current
                workgroups, including the names, IDs, configuration information, and
                node lists etc...

        b. Adding a new workgroup. It can be easy to be immediately deployed
            through typing a minimal amount of necessary information or choosing a
            preconfiguration file.
        c. Modifying the workgroups.
                 i. Modifying the main configuration of the workgroup. The current
                    and history vision of main configuration file can be displayed in
                    this module. And the configuration can be timely updated by
                    typing the corresponding updated parameters values, including the
                    maximum size of client http head, the maximum size of uploaded
                    files, the maximum size of the client requests, the size of proxy
                    server buffer, the number of buffer blocks, the size of first buffer,
                    the timeout value of proxy servers, and the timeout value of
                    keepalive.
                ii. Modifying the load configuration of the workgroup. The current
                    and history vision of load configuration file can also be displayed
                    in this module. And the configuration can be timely updated by
                    typing the corresponding updated parameters values, including the
                    name of load workgroup, the IP addresses and ports of load
                    workgroup, the domain name and monitoring ports.
               iii. Modifying the VPN configuration of the workgroup. Similarly, the
                    current and history vision of VPN configuration file can be
                    displayed in this module. And the configuration can be timely
                    updated by typing the corresponding updated parameters values,
                    including the name of VPN workgroup, the IP addresses and ports
                    of VPN workgroup, the domain name, monitoring ports and the
                    digital certificate files.
               iv. Modifying the nodes of the workgroup. This module can be used
                    to add, delete and deploy the nodes of the workgroup.
        d. Deleting the workgroup. When a workgroup is deleted, the corresponding
            configuration information will be save as a historical version. This
            historical configuration can be used to its fast deploy in case of further
            requirements.
(4) Task List Module. This module is used to display the execution status of all
    operations.
The processing layer is used to obtain the managing data of the cluster and execute
the configuration script. It contains following three modules.
(1) Monitoring Processing Module. It is used to obtain the running status of the
    cluster based on user requests, covering the following steps.
        a. Obtain the monitoring parameters from the user interface layer.
        b. Generate the standard script file based on obtained parameters
            automatically.

           c. Execute the script, and get the requested monitoring information from the
              cluster.
           d. Return the obtained monitoring data to the user interface layer.
   (2) Configuration Execution Module. It is used to execute the configuration based
       on the inputs of users, covering the following steps.
           a. Get the input data of users from the user interface layer.
           b. Call the interface function to update and save the configure file to
              achieve fast configuration.
           c. Execute the configure file and return the results.
   (3) Logging Module. The logging module defines a standard API for reporting errors
       and status information from applications
Figures
Figure 1 shows a typical application use case scenario of proposed method.
Figure 2 briefly displays the structure of the proposed method.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. The proposed for monitoring and managing the resources in cloud is mainly made
up of the user interface layer and the processing layer.
1.1 The user interface layer is used to obtain the data submitted by users and display
the monitoring information. It contains the following four modules.
1.1.1 Machine Management Module. This module is used to obtain the current status
of machines in cluster, and display these information output to users.
1.1.2 Workgroup Monitoring Module. This module can display the history, real-time
traffic information, and http connection status of each workgroup depending on the
request of users. It is used to show the data receiving and sending rates, and the
distribution of HTTP Status Codes in any possible period.
1.1.3 Workgroup Management Module. This module is used to check, add, modify and
delete the workgroups in cluster.
1.1.4 Task List Module. This module is used to display the execution status of all
operations.
1.2 The processing layer is used to obtain the managing data of the cluster and
execute the configuration script. It contains following three modules.
1.2.1 Monitoring Processing Module. It is used to obtain the running status of the
cluster based on user requests
1.2.2 Configuration Execution Module. It is used to execute the configuration based
on the inputs of users, covering the following steps.
1.2.3 Logging Module. The logging module defines a standard API for reporting errors
and status information from applications

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
