TREATMENT             OR PREVENTION                   OF CARDIOVASCULAR               EVENTS      VIA     THE
ADMINISTRATION OF A COLCHICINE DERIVATIVE
ABSTRACT
A method for the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject with
atherosclerotic vascular disease comprising the step of: b) administering a therapeutically
effective amount of a compound of formula (I), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt
thereof R wherein: R 1 , R 2 , R 3 , R 4 , R 9 , Rio, Ri1 and R 1 2 independently represent hydrogen, C 1-4
alkyl, C2- 4 alkenyl, C3. 6 cycloalkyl, halogen, C 1 .4 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C2-4 acylamino, C 1-4
alkyl or dialkylamino, hydroxyl, Ci-4alkoxy, C 1 .4 alkylthio, a group of the formula - SO 2N(R)            2
or SO 2 R where Rx is C 1 .4 alkyl, C 1 .4 acyloxy, or optionally substituted phenyl, optionally
substituted phenoxy; R 7 and R8 independently represent hydrogen, C1 -4 alkyl or C1-4 acyl; and R 5 ,
R 5 , R 6, and R6 " independently represent hydrogen, C 1-4 alkyl, C2-4 alkenyl, C3-6 cycloalkyl,
halogen, C 1 .4 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C2- 4 acylamino, hydroxyl, C1-4 alkoxy or C 1 .4 alkylthio a
group of the formula -SO 2 N(R)        2  or SO 2 R where Rx is C 1.4 alkyl, C 1 .4 acyloxy, or optionally
substituted phenyl.

                                               1
  TREATMENT OR PREVENTION OF CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS VIA THE
               ADMINISTRATION OF A COLCHICINE DERIVATIVE
  The present application is a divisional of 2013337605, which was the national phase entry
  of PCT/AU2013/001261, the entire specification of which is incorporated herein by cross
  reference.
  TECHNICAL FIELD
  [0001J A method for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular events in
  patients with established atherosclerotic vascular disease.
  BACKGROUND ART
  [0002] The flowing discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
  understanding of the present Invention only. The discussion is not an
  acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of
  the common general knowledge as at the piority date of the application.
 10003] In patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease, the diseased vessel wall is
  subject to injurious forces that promote plaque build-up and instability that may lead
 to coronary occlusion resulting in heart attack, ischemic stroke and sudden death.
  The response to injury within the diseased vessel is dependent on the architecture
 and content of atherosclerotic plaques. Lipid-rich plaques with a neo-vascular base
 are particularly susceptible to the effect of injury, which may leave them vulnerable to
 neutrophil infiltration. Neutrophils that enter the interstitial space may become
 activated upon exposure to the plaque contents, inciting an aggressive inflammatory
 response that may accelerate plaque instability increasing the risk of plaque
 enlargement and rupture and hence increasing the risk of clinical events.
 f0004] Despite routine use of anti-platelet and statin therapy, patients with
 atherosclerotic vascular disease continue to be at risk of cardiovascular events,
 possibly because these treatments fail to target some of the inflammatory pathways
 implicated in the disease.
[0005    A number of additional treatments exist for the prevention or reduction in risk
of coronary heart disease, including: antiplatelet agents (besides aspirin), anti
coagulants, angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACEls); aldosterone receptor
antagonists (ARAs); beta-blockers calcium channel blockers and/or nitrates.

                                             2
 [0006] However, many of these treatments are recommended for acute conditions
 and do not address or provide for a long-term reduction in cardiovascular events in
patients with clinically stable atherosclerotic vascular disease.
 [0007] It is against this background that the present invention has been developed.
[0008] The present invention seeks to overcome, or at least ameliorate, one or
 more of the deficiencies of the prior art mentioned above, or to provide the consumer
with a useful or commercial choice.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0009] The present invention provides a method for the treatment or prevention of a
cardiovascular event in a subject comprising the step of:
       administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1),
       a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0010] The present invention provides a method for the treatment or prevention of a
cardiovascular event in a subject with atherosclerotic vascular disease comprising
the step of:
       administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1),
       a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0011] The present invention further provides a method for the treatment or
prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject with atherosclerotic vascular
disease comprising the step of:
       administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1),
       a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof and one or more additional
       agents selected from the list comprising: a statin and/or an anti-platelet agent.
[0012] Preferably the atherosclerotic vascular disease is a coronary disease. The
coronary disease may be stable or unstable.
[0013] The invention further provides a method for the treatment or prevention of a
cardiovascular event in a subject comprising the step of:

                                            3
        administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1),
       a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof
wherein     the subject has coronary disease          prior  to administration  of the
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof. Preferably the coronary disease is a stable coronary
disease.
[0014] The present invention provides a method for reducing or preventing
cholesterol crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques in a subject,
comprising the step of
        administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
       known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0015] The invention also provides for the use of a compound of formula (1), a known
colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the
treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event.
[0016] In addition, the invention provides a composition for the prevention or
treatment of a cardiovascular event in a subject, the composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
additives, excipients carriers and/or diluents.
[0017] Preferably, the composition comprises 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of
formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0018] Preferably, the composition further comprises one or more additional agents
selected from the list comprising: a statin and/or an anti-platelet agent.
[0019] The present invention provides a regimen for the treatment or prevention of a
cardiovascular event in a subject, the regimen comprising the step of:
       administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
       known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof once per day.

                                              4
[0020] The present invention also provides a regimen for reducing or preventing
cholesterol crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques in a subject,
the regimen comprising the step of:
        administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
        known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof once or more times per day.
[0021] Preferably, the subject being administered the regimen has atherosclerotic
vascular disease, more preferably a coronary disease which may be a stable or
unstable coronary disease.
FIGURES
[0022] Figure 1 is a flow chart of the subject enrolment process for Example 1.
[0023] Figure 2 is a graph of the time to first clinical event in each group by
treatment.
[0024] Figure 3 is a table of the first time to clinical event across subgroups
examined.
[0025] Figure 4 is series of graphs of the time to first clinical event in each group by
treatment broken down into specific events.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
General
[0026] Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described.
The invention includes all such variation and modifications. The invention also
includes all of the steps, features, formulations and compounds referred to or
indicated in the specification, individually or collectively and any and all combinations
or any two or more of the steps or features.

                                             5
[0027] Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is
expressly incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it
should be read and considered by the reader as part of this text. That the document,
reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is
merely for reasons of conciseness. Any manufacturer's instructions, descriptions,
product specifications, and product sheets for any products mentioned herein or in
any document incorporated by reference herein, are hereby incorporated herein by
reference, and may be employed in the practice of the invention. No admission is
made that any of the references constitute prior art or are part of the common
general knowledge of those working in the field to which this invention relates.
[0028] The present invention is not to be limited in scope by any of the specific
embodiments described herein. These embodiments are intended for the purpose of
exemplification only. Functionally equivalent products, formulations and methods
are clearly within the scope of the invention as described herein.
[0029] The invention described herein may include one or more range of values
(eg. size, displacement and field strength etc). A range of values will be understood
to include all values within the range, including the values defining the range, and
values adjacent to the range which lead to the same or substantially the same
outcome as the values immediately adjacent to that value which defines the
boundary to the range.
[0030] Other definitions for selected terms used herein may be found within the
detailed description of the invention and apply throughout.           Unless otherwise
defined, all other scientific and technical terms used herein have the same meaning
as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention
belongs. The term "active agent" may mean one active agent, or may encompass
two or more active agents.
[0031] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
Detailed Description

                                             6
 [0032] It is well known that consumption of a range of non-steroidal anti
 inflammatory agents, such as Vioxx@ (rofecoxib), Celebrex@ (celecoxib), ibuprofen,
 Voltaren@ (diclofenac), by patients with a previous history of coronary heart disease
 or other atherosclerotic vascular disease may lead to a significant increase in the risk
 of further cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction.            Other anti
 inflammatory agents such as cortisone can also increase the risk of adverse effects
 and cardiovascular events in patients with a previous history of coronary heart
disease. Despite the anti-inflammatory effects of these agents and their ability to
 reduce the markers of inflammation (such as a reduction in the levels of c-reactive
 protein), they are contra-indicated in the treatment of patients with coronary heart
disease or other atherosclerotic vascular disease.
 [0033] In atherosclerotic vascular disease, an artery wall thickens as a result of the
accumulation of calcium and fatty materials such as cholesterol. It is a syndrome
affecting arterial blood vessels, a chronic inflammatory response in the walls of
arteries specifically due to atheromatous plaques. Disruption of the plaques may
 lead to acute coronary syndrome (including ischemic chest pain, acute myocardial
 infarction, unstable angina); cardiac arrest; and/or stroke such as non-cardio-embolic
ischemic stroke.
[0034] Coronary disease and coronary heart disease is a form of atherosclerotic
vascular disease caused by plaque building up along the inner walls of the arteries of
the heart, which narrows the arteries and reduces blood flow to the heart. Stable
coronary diseases are those that occur predictably in intensity, character or
frequency at known levels of exertion or other stimuli. Unstable coronary diseases
are those that change in intensity, character or frequency.
[0035] The inventors of the present invention have surprisingly found that
administration of an anti-inflammatory agent within the group of compounds defined
by formula (1) may treat or prevent cardiovascular events in patients with
atherosclerotic vascular disease such as coronary heart disease.
                                       Formula (1)

                                                   7
                                                                 R2
                                                  R1
                                        R11           R1
                                                  R12                       R3
                                         1
                                    R1
                                                                           R4
                                                                        R'
                                          R9                        R,5"5
                                                            R6 "R6'
                                          R8 -1 N
                                                   R7
wherein:
R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R9 , R10 , R11 and R1 2 independently represent hydrogen, C14 alkyl, C24
alkenyl, C3- cycloalkyl, halogen, C1 4 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C2A acylamino, C1.4 alkyl
or dialkylamino, hydroxyl, C14 alkoxy,               C1 4   alkylthio, a group of the formula
SO 2N(Rx) 2 or SO 2 RX where R' is C14 alkyl, C1 4 acyloxy, or optionally substituted
phenyl, optionally substituted phenoxy;
R7 and R8 independently represent hydrogen, C14 alkyl or C14 acyl; and
R 5 ', R5 ", R6' and R6 " independently represent hydrogen, C14 alkyl, C24 alkenyl, C3 .6
cycloalkyl, halogen, C14 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C24 acylamino, hydroxyl, C14 alkoxy
or C14 alkylthio a group of the formula -SO 2N(Rx) 2 or SO2 R where Rx is C1 4 alkyl,
C14 acyloxy, or optionally substituted phenyl.
[0036] In particular, the inventors have discovered that colchicine [N-[(7S)-1,2,3,10
tetramethoxy-9-oxo-5,6,7,9-tetrahydrobenzo[a]heptalen-7-yl]acetamide] may treat or
prevent cardiovascular events in patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease such
as coronary heart disease.
[0037] Certain compounds of formula (1),                  and methods for their synthesis are
described in the following publications, the contents of which are incorporated by
reference:
         Kouroupis, Pavlos; Hansen, Hans-Jurgen, From Colchicine and Some of Its
         Derivatives       to     1,2,3,9,1 O-Pentamethoxybenzo[a]heptalenes,          Helvetica
         Chimica Acta; Vol. 78; (1995); p. 1247 - 1277.

                                     8
Sun, Li; McPhail, Andrew T.; Hamel, Ernest; Lin, Chii M.; Hastie, Susan B.; et
al.
Antitumor Agents. 139. Synthesis and Biological Evaluation of Thiocolchicine
Analogs 5,6-Dihydro-6(S)-(acyoxy)- and 5,6- Dihydro-6(S)-(aroyloxy)methyl
1,2,3-trimethoxy-9-(methylthio)-8H-cyclohepta[a]naphthalen-8-ones as Novel
Cytotoxic and Antimitotic Agents, Journal of Medicinal Chemistry; Vol. 36(5);
(1993); p. 544 - 551
Kouroupis, Pavlos; Kessler, Jacqueline; Hansen, Hans-Juergen, 10-Alkyl-10
demethylcolchicines, Helvetica Chimica Acta; Vol. 79; (1996); p. 208 - 212.
Chang, Dong-Jo; Jung, Jong-Wha; An, Hongchan; Suh, Young-Ger; Yoon,
Eun-Young; Lee, Geon-Bong; Kim, Soon-Ok; Kim, Wan- Joo; Kim, Young
Myeon, Design, synthesis and identification of novel colchicine-derived
immunosuppressant, Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; Vol.19(15);
(2009); p. 4416 - 4420.
Kozaka, Takashi; Nakagawa-Goto, Kyoko; Shi, Qian; Lai, Chin-Yu; Brossi,
Arnold; Lee, Kuo-Hsiung; Hamel, Ernest; Bastow, Kenneth F., Antitumor
agents 273. Design and synthesis of N-alkyl-thiocolchicinoids as potential
antitumor agents, Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; vol. 20(14);
(2010); p. 4091 -4094.
Danieli, Bruno; Giardini, Alessandra; Lesma, Giordano; Passarella, Daniele;
Peretto, Bruno; Sacchetti, Alessandro; Silvani, Alessandra; Pratesi, Graziella;
Zunino, Franco, Thiocolchicine-Podophyllotoxin Conjugates: Dynamic
Libraries Based on Disulfide Exchange Reaction, Journal of Organic
Chemistry; Vol. 71: 7; (2006); p. 2848 - 2853.
Quinn, Frank R.; Neiman, Zohar; Beisler, John A. Toxicity Quantitative
Structure-Activity Relationships of Colchicines Journal of Medicinal Chemistry;
Vol. 24(5); (1981); p. 636 - 639
Bensel, Nicolas; Lagnoux, David; Niggli, Verena; Wartmann, Markus;
Reymond, Jean-Louis
New      C(4)-Functionalized     Colchicine   Derivatives by a         Versatile
Multicomponent Electrophilic Aromatic Substitution Helvetica Chimica Acta;
Vol. 87( 9); (2004); p. 2266 - 2272
Malysheva, Yulia B.; Fedorov, Alexey Yu.; Combes, Sebastien; Allegro,
Diane; Peyrot, Vincent; Knochel, Paul;
Gavryushin, Andrei E., Synthesis and biological evaluation of novel anticancer
bivalent colchicine-tubulizine hybrids Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry;
Vol. 20(14); (2012); p. 4271 - 4278.
Kouroupis, Pavlos; Linden, Anthony; Hansen, Hans-Juergen, Synthesis of 4
Acetylcolchicine Helvetica, Chimica Acta; Vol.79, (1996); p. 203 - 207

                                      9
Bensel, Nicolas; Lagnoux, David; Niggli, Verena; Wartmann, Markus;
Reymond, Jean-Louis
New C(4)-Functionalized           Colchicine   Derivatives by a         Versatile
Multicomponent Electrophilic Aromatic Substitution Helvetica Chimica Acta;
Vol. 87( 9); (2004); p. 2266 - 2272.
Chang, Dong-Jo; Jung, Jong-Wha; An, Hongchan; Suh, Young-Ger; Yoon,
Eun-Young; Lee, Geon-Bong; Kim, Soon-Ok; Kim, Wan- Joo; Kim, Young
Myeon, Design, synthesis and identification of novel colchicine-derived
immunosuppressant, Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; vol. 19; nb.
15; (2009); p. 4416 - 4420.
Hufford, Charles D.; Capraro, Hans-Georg; Brossi, Arnold. (13)C- and (1)H
NMR. Assignments for Colchicine Derivatives, Helvetica Chimica Acta; Vol.
63(1); (1980); p. 50 - 56.
Nicolaou, K. C.; Valiulin, Roman A.; Pokorski, Jonathan K.; Chang, Vicki;
Chen, Jason S., Bio-inspired synthesis and biological evaluation of a
colchicine-related compound library, Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry
Letters; vol. 22; nb. 11; (2012); p. 3776 - 3780.
Patil, Shivaputra A.; Wang, Jin; Li, Xiaochen S.; Chen, Jianjun; Hosni-Ahmed,
Amira; Patil, Renukadevi; Li, Wei; Miller, Duane D.; Jones, Terreia S.; Seibel,
William L. New substituted 4H-chromenes as anticancer agents
Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; vol. 22; nb. 13; (2012); p. 4458
446.
Nielsen, Kurt; Manchanda, Rajesh Deuterium-enriched colchicines,
Thiocolchicine and derivatives thereof; Methods of preparation and use
thereof, Patent: US2011/178180; (2011); (Al).
Bartusik, Dorota; Tomanek, Boguslaw; Fallone, Gino; Lattova, Erika;
Perreault, Helene; Tuszynski, Jack, Derivatives of thiocolchicine and its
applications to CEM cells treatment using 19F Magnetic Resonance ex vivo
Bioorganic Chemistry; vol. 38; nb. 1; (2010); p. 1 - 6.
Alali, Feras Q.; Qandil, Amjad; Gharaibeh, Ahmad A.; Ghawanmeh, Abdullah;
Tawaha, Khaled; Burgess, Jason P.; Sy, Arlene; Nakanishi, Yuka; Kroll, David
J.; Oberlies, Nicholas H. Colchicinoids from Colchicum crocifolium Boiss.
(Colchicaceae) Natural Product Research; vol. 24( 2); (2010); p. 152 - 159.
Boyer, Franois-Didier; Dubois, Joelle; Thoret, Sylviane; Dau, Marie-Elise Tran
Huu; Hanna, Issam, Synthesis and tubulin-binding properties of new
allocolchicinoids Bioorganic Chemistry; vol. 38(4); (2010); p. 149 - 158.
Yang, Baiyuan; Zhu, Zhiqing C.; Goodson, Holly V.; Miller, Marvin J.
Syntheses and biological evaluation of ring-C modified colchicine analogs,
Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; Vol. 20(12); (2010); p. 3831
3833.

                                       10
Stefely, Jonathan A.; Miller, Patricia A.; Peterson, Rebecca J.; Moraski,
Garrett C.; Miller, Marvin J.; Palchaudhuri, Rahul; Hergenrother, Paul J., N
((1-ben zyl- I H-1, 2,3-triazol-4-yl)methyl) arylamide as a new scaffold that
provides rapid access to antimicrotubule agents: synthesis and evaluation of
antiproliferative activity against select cancer cell lines, Journal of Medicinal
Chemistry; Vol. 53(8); (2010); p. 3389 - 3395.
Kozaka, Takashi; Nakagawa-Goto, Kyoko; Shi, Qian; Lai, Chin-Yu; Brossi,
Arnold; Lee, Kuo-Hsiung; Hamel, Ernest; Bastow, Kenneth F. Antitumor
agents 273. Design and synthesis of N-alkyl-thiocolchicinoids as potential
antitumor agents, Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; Vol. 20.(14);
(2010); p. 4091 -4094.
Johansson, Emma M. V.; Darbre, Tamis; Reymond, Jean-Louis; Dubois,
Joelle, Glycopeptide dendrimer colchicine conjugates targeting cancer cells,
Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry; Vol.18(17); (2010); p. 6589 - 6597.
Dietrich, Andrea; Mueller, Thomas; Schobert, Rainer; Biersack, Bernhard;
Effenberger, Katharina; Knauer, Sebastian
4-(3-Halo/amino-4,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-5-aryloxazoles                       and-N
methylimidazoles that are cytotoxic against combretastatin a resistant tumor
cells and vascular disrupting in a cisplatin resistant germ cell tumor model
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, Vol. 53(18); (2010); p. 6595 - 6602.
Nicolaus, Norman; Neudoerfl, Joerg-Martin; Schmalz, Hans-Guenther;        Zapke,
Janet; Oschkinat, Hartmut; Riesterer, Philipp; Prokop, Aram, Azides      derived
from colchicine and their use in library synthesis: A practical entry    to new
bioactive derivatives of an old natural drug, ChemMedChem; vol. 5( 5)    (2010);
p.661 - 665.
Sharma, Shubhada; Ravindra, Rudravajhala; Blanden, Adam R.; Bane,
Susan; Poliks, Barbara; Chiauzzi, Colby
Characterization of the colchicine binding site on avian tubulin isotype /VI,
Biochemistry; vol. 49(13); (2010); p. 2932 - 2942.
Indena S.p.A."Process for the glycosidation of colchicine and thiocolchicine"
Patent: EP2128170; (2009); (Al).
Sun, Tong; Nielsen, Kurt; Watson, Shawn; Hilfiker, Rolf; Sieber, Andreas,
Colchicine Solid-State forms: Methods of Making and Methods of Use
Thereof, Patent: US2009312430; (2009); (Al).
Bartusik, Dorota; Tomanek, Boguslaw; Fallone, Gino; Lattova, Erika;
Perreault, Helene; Tuszynski, Jack
The efficacy of new colchicine derivatives and viability of the T
Lymphoblastoid cells in three-dimensional culture using 19F MRI and HPLC
UV ex vivo, Bioorganic Chemistry; vol. 37( 6); (2009); p. 193 - 201.
Chang, Dong-Jo; Jung, Jong-Wha; An, Hongchan; Suh, Young-Ger; Yoon,
Eun-Young; Lee, Geon-Bong; Kim, Soon-Ok; Kim, Wan- Joo; Kim, Young-

                                            11
        Myeong, Design, synthesis and identification of novel colchicine-derived
        immunosuppressant, Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; vol. 19(15);
        (2009); p. 4416 - 4420.
        ALBERTA HEALTH SERVICES; Novel Colchicine Derivatives, Methods and
        Uses Thereof, Patent: W02011/22805; (2011); (Al)
        MUTUAL PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY, INC.; MANCHANDA, Rajesh,
        Thiocolchicine Derivatives, method of making and method of use thereof,
        Patent: W02010/138670; (2010); (A2)
[0038] These publications disclose a large number of compounds derived from
colchicine, not all of which fall within the scope of formula (1). Compounds outside
the scope of formula (1),      yet derived from colchicine and described in the
aforementioned publications, are collectively referred to herein as "known colchicine
derivatives".
[0039] The compounds of formula (1)and the known colchicine derivatives contain
at least one asymmetric carbon atom. The methods of the present invention include
the use of isolated optical isomers and/or mixtures of such.
[0040] The term C1-4 alkyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain alkyl
group containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, i.e. methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, n-propyl, s
butyl, isobutyl and n-butyl.
[0041] The term C1-4 haloalkyl means the abovementioned alkyl groups substituted
by one or more halogen atoms, e.g. trifluoromethyl.
[0042] The term C1-4 alkoxy and C1-4 alkylthio refer to the abovementioned alkyl
groups attached through an oxygen or sulphur atom respectively to the relevant ring.
[0043] The term C2-4 alkenyl refers to groups such as vinyl, allyl and butenyl.
[0044] The term amino indicates a group of formula -NH2 and also substituted
amino groups such as mono-C1-4 alkylamino and di-C1-4 alkyl amino groups.
[0045] The term C2-4 acyl amino means an amino group substituted by a C2-4 acyl
group such as acetyl.
[0046] The term C1-4 alkanoyl refers to groups such as formyl or acetyl.

                                            12
[0047] The term C3-8 cycloalkyl means a saturated ring having from 3 to 8 carbon
atoms in the ring, such as cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or
cyclooctyl.
[0048] The term optionally substituted phenyl as used herein means a phenyl group
unsubstituted or substituted by one or more groups such as halogen, trifluoromethyl,
methyl, methoxy or nitro.
[0049] The term optionally substituted phenoxy as used herein means a phenoxy
group unsubstituted or substituted by one or more groups such as halogen,
trifluoromethyl, methyl, methoxy or nitro.
[0050] Therefore, the present invention provides a method for the prevention or
treatment of a cardiovascular event in a subject comprising the step of: administering
a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0051] Preferably, the subject has atherosclerotic vascular disease, more preferably
coronary disease, even more preferably clinically stable coronary disease.
[0052] Therefore, the invention further provides a method for the prevention or
treatment of a cardiovascular event in a subject with atherosclerotic vascular disease
comprising the step of: administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0053] The invention further provides a method for the prevention or treatment of a
cardiovascular event in a subject comprising the step of: administering              a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof, wherein the subject has a coronary disease prior to
administration of the therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a
known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof. Preferably the coronary disease is
a stable coronary disease.
[0054] The method may include the further step of co-administering a second agent
for the treatment and/or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject. For
example, the composition delivered in the method may further include an agent for

                                              13
anti-platelet therapy.      Such    anti-platelet therapy agents include: Irreversible
cyclooxygenase inhibitors (such as Aspirin); Adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor
 inhibitors (such as Clopidogrel (Plavix@),           Prasugrel   (Effient@),    Ticagrelor
(Brilinta@), Ticlopidine (Ticlid@), Cangrelor); Phosphodiesterase inhibitors (such as
Cilostazol (Pletal@)); Glycoprotein IIB/IIIA inhibitors (such as Abciximab (ReoPro@),
 Eptifibatide (Integrilin@), Tirofiban (Aggrastat@)); Adenosine reuptake inhibitors
(such      as  Dipyridamole     (Persantine@));     Thromboxane       inhibitors  including
Thromboxane synthase inhibitors and Thromboxane receptor antagonists (such as
Terutroban).
[0055] Additionally, the composition delivered in the method may include one or
more statins. Statins that may be used in the composition of the present invention
include: simvastatin, atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, and
rosuvastatin.
[0056] The additional statin and/or anti-platelet agent may be administered at the
same time as the compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a
salt thereof, for example as tablets or capsules taken at the same time as each
other; within an hour of each other; within 2 hours, 4 hours, 6 hours, 8 hours or 12
hours of each other; or within a day of each other. Alternatively, the additional statin
and/or anti-platelet agent may be in the same dosage form (for example the same
tablet or capsule) as the compound of formula (1),         a known colchicine derivative
and/or a salt thereof.
[0057] The invention therefore provides a method for the prevention or treatment of
a cardiovascular event in a subject with atherosclerotic vascular disease comprising
the step of: administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of
formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof and one or more
additional agents selected from the list comprising: a statin or an anti-platelet agent.
[0058] Preferably the atherosclerotic vascular disease is a coronary disease, which
may be a clinically stable coronary disease or an unstable coronary disease.
[0059] In one form of the invention, the methods comprise the administration of a
compound of formula (1).

                                               14
[0060] In one form of the invention, the methods comprise the administration of a
compound selected from the group of compounds described in one or more of the
publications listed above as defining known colchicine derivatives.
[0061] In a preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1)has one or
more of the following features:
      R1, R2 , R3 , R4, R9 , R10, R11 and R12 independently represent hydrogen, C14
      alkyl, C2 4 alkenyl, C3 -6 cycloalkyl, halogen, C1 4 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C2 4
      acylamino, hydroxyl, C1 4 alkoxy,         C 14    alkylthio, a group of the formula
      SO 2 N(R)   2 or SO 2 Rx where RX is C14 alky;
      R5 ', R5 ", R6 ' and R6" independently represent hydrogen, C 14 alkyl, C 24 alkenyl,
      C3 .6 cycloalkyl, halogen, C1 4 haloalkyl, nitro, amino,      C2-4 acylamino, hydroxyl,
      C1A alkoxy or C14 alkylthio a group of the formula -SO 2 N(RX) 2 or SO 2 Rx where
      Rx is C1A alkyl.
[0062] In a preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1)has one or
more of the following features:
            a.   At least one of R1, R2 and R3 is C14 alkoxy or C14 alkylthio;
            b. At least one of R7 and R8 is C2 4 acyl;
            c.   R10 is C14 alkoxy or C14 alkylthio
[0063] In a preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1) has two or
more of the above-mentioned features.
[0064] In a preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1)has each of
the abovementioned features.
[0065] In a more preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1) has
the following feature:
             d. Each of R4 , R', R5 ", R6', R6" R11 , R 12 is H.
[0066] In a more preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1) has
the following feature:

                                                  15
            e. one of R7 and R8 is H, and the other is C2 -4 acyl.
 [0067] Thus, in a highly preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1)
 has each of the following features:
           a. At least one of R1 , R 2 and R3 is C 1 .4 alkoxy or C 1.4 alkylthio;
           b. At least one of R7 and R8 is C2 -4 acyl;
           c.    R1 0 is C 1 .4 alkoxy or C1_4 alkylthio;
           d. Each of R4, R5 ', R5 ", R6 ', R6 " R1 1 , R12 is independently H;
           e.    One of R7 and R8 is H, and the other C2 -4 acyl.
 [0068] Generally, C1 .4 alkoxy is preferred over C1 .4 alkylthio.
 [0069] Generally, C1 -2 alkoxy is preferred over C3.4 alkoxy.
 [0070]   In a preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1)is selected
from the group of compounds defined by the following features:
      R1 , R2 , R3 , and, R10 , Ril independently represent C 1 .4 alkoxy or C 1 .4 alkylthio;
      R7 and R8 independently represent hydrogen or C2 -4 acyl; and
      R4 , R5 ', R5 ", R6 ' and R6 " independently represent hydrogen or C1.4 alkyl.
[0071] Preferably, R1 , R2 , R3, and, R10 , Re independently represent C1 .4 alkoxy.
[0072] Preferably still, each of R1 , R2 , R3, and, R10 , Ril represent C1 .4 alkoxy.
[0073] Preferably R4 , R5 ', R5 ", R6 ' and R6 " independently represent hydrogen.
[0074] Preferably still, each of R4, R5 ', R5 ", R6 ' and R6" represent hydrogen.
[0075] In a highly preferred form of the invention, the compound of formula (1) has
the following features:
      each of R1 , R2, R3, and, R10 , R11 represent C1 alkoxy;
      each of R4 , R5 ', R5 ", R6' and R6 " represent H;

                                            16
       R7 represents H; and
       R8 represents C2 acyl;
such that the compound of formula (1)is colchicine.
[0076] Compounds of formula (1) of the invention are useful in both free base or
acid addition salt forms. The acid addition salts are preferably the pharmaceutically
acceptable, non-toxic addition salts with suitable acids, such as those with inorganic
acids, for example hydrochloric hydrobromic, nitric, sulfuric and phosphoric acids, or
with organic acids, such as organic carboxylic acids, for example glycolic, maleic,
hydroxymaleic, fumaric, malic, tartaric, citric, salicylic, o-acetoxybenzoic, nicotinic or
isonicotinic acid, or organic sulfonic acids for example methanesulfonic, ethane
sulfonic, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic, toluene- p-sulfonic or naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid.
[0077] Without wishing to be bound by any one theory, we believe the activity of a
compound of formula (1),       a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in
relation to the prevention of vascular events in patients with coronary disease may
be due to the inhibition of neutrophil function, leading to a reduction in the risk of
plaque instability and thus the risk of de novo vascular events due to disruption of
native atherosclerotic plaques in patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease such
as coronary disease. For example, the colchicine may be preventing activation and
amplification of the [cholesterol] crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic
plaques and thereby acting to slow the progression of atherosclerosis and promote
the stability of atherosclerotic plaques.
[0078] There is therefore provided a method for reducing or preventing cholesterol
crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques in a subject, comprising
the step of
        administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
        known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
[0079] Preferably the subject with atherosclerotic plaques has atherosclerotic
vascular disease, more preferably a stable or unstable coronary disease.

                                           17
[0080] Preferably the composition administered to reduce or prevent cholesterol
crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques further comprises one or
 more additional agents selected from the list comprising: a statin and/or an anti
platelet agent.
[0081]    Preferably, the method of treatment of the present invention results in the
treatment or prevention of one or more of the following cardiovascular events: acute
coronary syndrome (including ischemic chest pain, acute myocardial infarction,
unstable angina); cardiac arrest; or stroke such as non-cardio-embolic ischemic
stroke.
[0082] Generally, the terms "treat", "treating" and "treatment" and derivatives used
herein have the meaning to affect a subject, tissue or cell to produce a desired
pharmacological and/or physiological effect. The treatment may be therapeutic in
terms of: preventing progression of the coronary disease or other atherosclerotic
vascular disease and cardiovascular events; or causing a partial or complete cure
and/or regression of the coronary disease or other atherosclerotic vascular disease
and cardiovascular events.
[0083] "Preventing" or "prevention" and derivative terms relate to the partial or
complete prevention or at least delaying the onset of the development of coronary
disease or other atherosclerotic vascular disease and cardiovascular events or the
symptoms thereof in a subject who: has not yet been diagnosed with coronary
disease or other atherosclerotic vascular disease or had a cardiovascular event; has
had coronary disease and may be in remission and wishes to prevent re-occurrence
of the coronary disease and/or cardiovascular event; or has been diagnosed as
being at risk of developing coronary disease or other atherosclerotic vascular
disease and having a cardiovascular event.
[0084] The invention further provides for the use of a compound of formula (1), a
known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament
for the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event.
[0085] The invention also provides for the use of a therapeutically effective amount
of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in

                                            18
the preparation of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of a cardiovascular
event in a subject with atherosclerotic vascular disease.
[0086] Preferably the atherosclerotic vascular disease is a clinically stable coronary
disease or unstable coronary disease.
[0087] There is also provided the use of a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in the
preparation of a medicament for reducing or preventing cholesterol crystal induced
inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques in a subject.
[0088] The invention further provides for the use of a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound of formula (1) in the preparation of a medicament for the
prevention or treatment of a cardiovascular event in a subject.
[0089]   In another form of the invention, there is provided the use of a therapeutically
effective amount of a compound selected from the group of compounds described in
one or more of the publications listed above as defining known colchicine derivatives
in the preparation of a medicament for the prevention               or treatment    of a
cardiovascular event in a subject.
[0090] Preferably, the medicament discussed above comprises between 0.01 and 1
mg of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof;
between 0.05 and 0.95 mg, between 0.1 and 0.9 mg, between 0.2 and 0.8 mg, or
between 0.4 and 0.7 mg. More preferably, it comprises between 0.5 mg and 0.6 mg
of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof,
most preferably either 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg.
[0091] The present invention further provides a composition for the prevention or
treatment of a cardiovascular event in a subject, the composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
additives, excipients carriers and/or diluents.
[0092] The present invention further provides a composition for reducing or
preventing cholesterol crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques in

                                           19
a subject, the composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof and one
or more pharmaceutically acceptable additives, excipients carriers and/or diluents.
[0093] Preferably, the composition comprising a compound of formula (1), a known
colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof comprises between 0.01 and 1 mg of a
compound of formula (1),       a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof;
between 0.05 and 0.95 mg, between 0.1 and 0.9 mg, between 0.2 and 0.8 mg, or
between 0.4 and 0.7 mg. More preferably, it comprises between 0.5 mg and 0.6 mg
of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof,
most preferably either 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg.
[0094] The exact amount of the a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof in the composition will of course, depend on the route
of delivery, the nature of the coronary heart disease or other atherosclerotic vascular
disease, the therapeutically effective amount of colchicine required and the general
nature and health of the subject to whom the composition is delivered.
[0095] Preferably the concentration of the a compound of formula (1), a known
colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in the composition will be of sufficient
strength (qs) to provide a therapeutically effective dose to the target cells.    Such
therapy may be directed to the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a
subject.     More preferably, the therapeutically effective dose is directed to the
treatment or prevention       of a cardiovascular event in        a subject who     has
atherosclerotic vascular disease such as stable or unstable coronary disease.
[0096] The compositions of the present invention, comprising a compound of
formula (1),   a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof, are preferably
adapted to be delivered to the subject in need more than once daily, once daily or
less often.     For example, if the composition is adapted for oral delivery, the
composition is preferably administered once a day. However, it is contemplated that
the composition can be administered more frequently than this (for example, two or
three times a day) or less often (for example every second day, every third day, once
a week). Alternatively, if the composition comprising a compound of formula (1), a
known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof is in the form of an injectable

                                            20
formulation, it is preferable that the composition be adapted for delivery once a
week, or once a month.
[0097] The compositions may further comprise and one or more additional agents
selected from the list comprising: a statin and/or an anti-platelet agent.
[0098] As used herein, the term "therapeutically effective amount" means an
amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt
thereof effective to yield a desired therapeutic response, for example to prevent or
treat a cardiovascular event in a subject.       The specific therapeutically effective
amount will of course vary with such factors as the particular condition being treated,
the physical condition and clinical history of the subject, the type of animal being
treated, the duration of the treatment, the nature of concurrent therapy (if any), the
specific formulations employed and the structure of the composition.
[0099] The term "pharmaceutically", "physiologically", or "veterinary acceptable" as
used herein refers to pharmaceutically active agents, physiologically active agents,
veterinary active agents, or inert ingredients which are suitable for use in oral
formulations or formulations designed for contact with the skin of animals, including
humans,     without  undue toxicity,    incompatibility, instability, irritation,  allergic
response, and the like, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
[00100] Additives, excipients carriers and diluents for use in the compositions of the
present invention include, without limitation: water, saline, ethanol, dextrose,
glycerol, glycerol and polyhydric alcohols, milk protein, vitamins, animal and
vegetable oils, polyethylene glycols, lactose, dextrose, sucrose sorbitol, mannitol and
other sugars, starches, gum acacia, calcium phosphates, alginate, tragacanth,
gelatine, calcium silicate, cellulose and its derivatives such as microcrystalline
cellulose and methyl cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, water syrup, methyl and
propylhydroxybenzoates, talc, magnesium carbonate, titanium dioxide, magnesium
stearate and mineral oil or combinations thereof.
[00101]The compositions can additionally include lubricating agents, dispersion
media, pH buffering agents, wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents,
solvents, preserving agents, sweetening agents or flavouring agents, antifoaming
agents, polymers,     antioxidants, chelating agents, viscomodulators,          tonicifiers,

                                                21
flavorants, colorants, odorants, opacifiers, suspending agents, binders, fillers,
plasticizers,    lubricants,    absorption-promoting      agents     and    mixtures     thereof.
Preservatives include         antimicrobial, antibacterial    and antifungal agents, anti
oxidants, chelating agents and inert gases. The particular selection of constituent
that can be included in the compositions described herein will generally depend on
the type of preparation.
[00102]                                                              In      the       preferred
embodiments, the composition is formulated to enable ready location and retention
of the compound of formula (I), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof in
the area required to deliver the therapeutic effect while at the same time not
significantly interfering with the compound's efficacy. It will be understood, therefore,
that the therapeutically effective composition may be formulated differently based on
the area of treatment and how the composition is to be administered.
[00103] There      are    a   range    of reference    sources for      the development        of
pharmaceutical compositions which may be referred to by the skilled person when
developing       formulations      comprising      colchicine,     such     as    "Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences", 21st Edition (2009), Mack Publishing Company, Easton,
Pennsylvania, USA, all the contents of which are incorporated herein.
[00104]A composition comprising a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof may be administered using standard procedures, for
example:        orally,     topically,     parenterally,    intraorbitally,     ophthalmically,
intraventricularly,     intracranially,   intracapsularly,    intraspinally,    intracisternally,
intraperitoneally,     buccally,    rectally,  vaginally,   intranasally,    or    by    aerosol
administration and/or inhalation spray or via an implanted reservoir.
[00105] In a preferred embodiment the compound of formula (I), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof is administered internally for the treatment or
prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject. For example, the compound may
be delivered by oral routes in the form of a tablet, capsule, liquid dose, gel or
powder; by injection e.g. into the blood stream, muscle tissue or directly into an
organ such as the heart; by sublingual, buccal, rectal or intravaginal delivery; or by
inhalation.

                                            22
[00106] Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, adjuvants and vehicles that may be
used in oral, parenteral, sublingual, buccal, rectal or intravaginal or inhaled
compositions may include: ion exchangers; alumina; aluminum stearate; lecithin;
self-emulsifying drug delivery systems such as alpha- tocopherol polyethylene glycol
1000 succinate, or other similar polymeric delivery matrices or systems such as
nanoparticles; serum proteins such as human serum albumin; buffer substances
such as phosphates; glycine; sorbic acid; potassium sorbate; partial glyceride
mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids; water; salts or electrolytes, such as
protamine sulfate, disodium hydrogen phosphate, potassium hydrogen phosphate,
sodium    chloride,   zinc salts;  colloidal silica;   magnesium     trisilicate; polyvinyl
pyrrolidone;     cellulose-based     substances;       polyethylene      glycol;   sodium
carboxymethycellu lose;        polyacrylates;      po lyethylen e-polyoxypro pylene-block
polymers; and wool fat.
[00107] The composition of the present invention comprising a compound of formula
(1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof can further contain one or
more additives, provided that they do not detrimentally affect the therapeutic effect
afforded by the compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt
thereof. In one embodiment, the additive is a colorant. In alternative embodiments,
the additive is a preservative such as a mould inhibitor or an anti-oxidant, a
fragrance, or a stabiliser. The additional additives may also be agents that render
the composition an emulsion, a micro-emulsion or a nano-emulsion.
[00108] In a preferred embodiment, the compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
derivative and/or a salt thereof is delivered via an oral route. The colchicine may
therefore be in the form of a tablet, capsule, gel or liquid composition.            If the
compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof is in the
form of a tablet, the tablet may further comprise fillers such as: lactose (milk sugar),
microcrystalline cellulose, corn starch, sugars (including sucrose, mannitol, sorbitol,
fructose, and dextrose), whey and yeast; and/or binders such as: povidone, xanthan
gum and Carbopol. Additional ingredients may be in the form of: disintergrants such
as crospovidone, croscarmellose sodium, and gellan gum; coatings such as shellac;
lubricants such as magnesium stearate, stearic acid, sodium stearyl fumarate and
hydrogenated vegetable oil; colorants such as titanium dioxide and iron oxides;

                                           23
flavours (in chewable tablets); and plasticizers. Most preferably, the compound of
formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof is administered in the
form of a tablet comprising colchicine, magnesium stearate, lactose, maize starch
and povidone. Preferably, the tablet, capsule, gel or liquid composition comprises
between 0.01 and 1 mg of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative
and/or a salt thereof; between 0.05 and 0.95 mg, between 0.1 and 0.9 mg, between
0.2 and 0.8 mg, or between 0.4 and 0.7 mg. More preferably, it comprises between
0.5 mg and 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative
and/or a salt thereof, most preferably either 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg.
[00109] Alternatively, the compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative
and/or a salt thereof may be delivered via sublingual, buccal, rectal or intravaginal
delivery, for example by administration of a tablet, capsule, gel, powder or spray.
[00110]                                                        In another embodiment,
the compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof is
delivered parenterally, preferably by injection, for example subcutaneously or
intramuscularly. However, delivery may also be intra-arterially or intraperitoneally for
the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject. The composition
may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation, for example, as a sterile
injectable suspension for the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a
subject. This suspension may be formulated according to techniques known in the
art using suitable dispersing agents, surfactants, and suspending agents (e.g. Tween
80). The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or
suspension in a non-toxic parenterally- acceptable diluent or solvent (e.g. 1, 2
propanediol).      Acceptable vehicles and solvents may include mannitol, water,
Ringers solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution with buffer.       Furthermore,
sterile, fixed oils may be employed as a solvent or a suspending medium.       For this
purpose, any bland fixed oil may be employed including mono- or diglycerides. Fatty
acids, such as oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives, and natural pharmaceutically
acceptable oils, such as polyoxyethylated olive oil or castor oil, may also be used in
the preparation of injectables. Preferably, the injectable composition comprises
between 0.01 and 1 mg of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative
and/or a salt thereof; between 0.05 and 0.95 mg, between 0.1 and 0.9 mg, between

                                                24
0.2 and 0.8 mg, or between 0.4 and 0.7 mg. More preferably, it comprises between
0.5 mg and 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative
and/or a salt thereof, most preferably either 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg.
[00111] The composition may further comprise a second agent for the treatment
and/or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject. For example, the
composition may further include an agent for in anti-platelet therapy.            Such anti
platelet therapy agents include: Irreversible cyclooxygenase inhibitors (such as
Aspirin); Adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor inhibitors (such as Clopidogrel
(Plavix@),    Prasugrel      (Effient@),    Ticagrelor (Brilinta),  Ticlopidine    (Ticlid@),
Cangrelor); Phosphodiesterase inhibitors (such as Cilostazol (Pletal)); Glycoprotein
IIB/IIIA inhibitors (such as Abciximab (ReoPro@), Eptifibatide (Integrilin), Tirofiban
(Aggrastat@)); Adenosine reuptake inhibitors (such as Dipyridamole (Persantine@));
Thromboxane         inhibitors     including   Thromboxane      synthase    inhibitors     and
Thromboxane receptor antagonists (such as Terutroban).,
[00112] Additionally, the composition may include one or more statins. Statins that
may be used in the composition of the present invention include: simvastatin,
atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, and rosuvastatin.
[00113]         The present invention also provides a regimen for the treatment or
prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject, the regimen comprising the step of:
        administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
        known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof once or more per day.
[00114]         The present invention also provides a regimen for reducing or
preventing cholesterol crystal induced inflammation within atherosclerotic plaques in
a subject, the regimen comprising the step of:
        administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
        known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof once or more per day.
[00115]         Alternatively, the regimen may involve administering the compound of
formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof every second day,
every third day, every fourth day, every fifth day, every sixth day or once a week.

                                           25
[00116]       Preferably,   the  subject    being   administered   the   regimen    has
atherosclerotic vascular disease, preferably a stable coronary disease.
[00117]       The regimen may include the additional step of co-administering one or
more additional agents selected from the list comprising: a statin and/or an anti
platelet agent. The one or more additional agents may also be administered once
per day.
[00118]       Methods for synthesising compounds of formula (1) and/or known
colchicine derivatives may be found in the following publications, the contents of
which are hereby incorporated by reference.
Substitution at R1, R2 R3 , R4
    1. Synthesis of colchicine derivatives containing an methoxyl:
Chang, Dong-Jo; Jung, Jong-Wha; An, Hongchan; Suh, Young-Ger; Yoon, Eun
Young; Lee, Geon-Bong; Kim, Soon-Ok; Kim, Wan- Joo; Kim, Young-Myeon,
Design, synthesis and identification of novel colchicine-derived immunosuppressant,
Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; vol. 19; nb. 15; (2009); p. 4416 - 4420.
Hufford, Charles D.; Capraro, Hans-Georg; Brossi, Arnold. (13)C- and (1)H-NMR.
Assignments for Colchicine Derivatives, Helvetica Chimica Acta; Vol. 63(1); (1980);
p. 50 - 56.
    2. Synthesis of colchicine derivatives having substituent at R4 :
Bensel, Nicolas; Lagnoux, David; Niggli, Verena; Wartmann, Markus; Reymond,
Jean-Louis
New C(4)-Functionalized Colchicine Derivatives by a Versatile Multicomponent
Electrophilic Aromatic Substitution Helvetica Chimica Acta; Vol. 87( 9); (2004); p.
2266 - 2272.
    3. Synthesis of colchicine derivative containing a containing an acetyl functional
       group at R4 :
Kouroupis, Pavlos; Linden, Anthony; Hansen, Hans-Juergen, Synthesis of 4
Acetylcolchicine Helvetica, Chimica Acta; Vol.79, (1996); p. 203 - 207:
Substitution at RA or R7
    1. Synthesis of colchicine derivatives containing an azide group:
Malysheva, Yulia B.; Fedorov, Alexey Yu.; Combes, Sebastien; Allegro, Diane;
Peyrot, Vincent; Knochel, Paul; Gavryushin, Andrei E., Synthesis and biological

                                           26
evaluation of novel anticancerbivalent colchicine-tubulizine hybrids Bioorganic and
Medicinal Chemistry; Vol. 20(14); (2012); p. 4271 - 4278.
    2. Synthesis of colchicine derivatives containing an amide group:
Bensel, Nicolas; Lagnoux, David; Niggli, Verena; Wartmann, Markus; Reymond,
Jean-Louis
New C(4)-Functionalized Colchicine Derivatives by a Versatile Multicomponent
Electrophilic Aromatic Substitution Helvetica Chimica Acta; Vol. 87( 9); (2004); p.
2266 - 2272
Substitution at Rio
    1. Synthesis of colchicine derivative containing a thio group.
Kozaka, Takashi; Nakagawa-Goto, Kyoko; Shi, Qian; Lai, Chin-Yu; Brossi, Arnold;
Lee, Kuo-Hsiung; Hamel, Ernest; Bastow, Kenneth F., Antitumor agents 273. Design
and synthesis of N-alkyl-thiocolchicinoids as potential antitumor agents, Bioorganic
and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; vol. 20(14); (2010); p. 4091 - 4094.
Danieli, Bruno; Giardini, Alessandra; Lesma, Giordano; Passarella, Daniele; Peretto,
Bruno; Sacchetti, Alessandro; Silvani, Alessandra; Pratesi, Graziella; Zunino,
Franco, Thio colchicine-Podophyllotoxin Conjugates: Dynamic Libraries Based on
Disulfide Exchange Reaction, Journal of Organic Chemistry; Vol. 71: 7; (2006); p.
2848 - 2853.
Quinn, Frank R.; Neiman, Zohar; Beisler, John A. Toxicity Quantitative Structure
Activity Relationships of Colchicines Journal of Medicinal Chemistry; Vol. 24(5);
(1981); p. 636 - 639
    2. Synthesis of colchicine derivative containing an haloalkyl functional group.
Chang, Dong-Jo; Jung, Jong-Wha; An, Hongchan; Suh, Young-Ger; Yoon, Eun
Young; Lee, Geon-Bong; Kim, Soon-Ok; Kim, Wan- Joo; Kim, Young-Myeon,
Design, synthesis and identification of novel colchicine-derivedimmunosuppressant,
Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters; Vol.19(15); (2009); p. 4416 - 4420.
    3. Synthesis of colchicine derivative containing an alkoxy group.
Kouroupis, Pavlos; Kessler, Jacqueline; Hansen, Hans-Juergen, 10-Alkyl-10
demethylcolchicines, Helvetica Chimica Acta; Vol. 79; (1996); p. 208 - 212.
    4. Synthesis of colchicine derivative containing an hydroxyl group.
Kouroupis, Pavlos; Hansen, Hans-Jurgen,          From Colchicine and Some of Its
Derivatives to 1,2,3,9, 1-Pentamethoxybenzo[a]heptalenes,Helvetica Chimica Acta;
Vol. 78; (1995); p. 1247 - 1277.
Sun, Li; McPhail, Andrew T.; Hamel, Ernest; Lin, Chii M.; Hastie, Susan B.; et al.

                                             27
Antitumor Agents. 139. Synthesis and Biological Evaluation of Thiocolchicine
Analogs 5,6-Dihydro-6(S)-(acyloxy)- and 5,6- Dihydro-6(S)-(aroyloxy)methyl-1,2,3
trimethoxy-9-(methylthio)-8H-cyclohepta[a]naphthalen-8-ones as Novel Cytotoxic
and Antimitotic Agents, Journal of Medicinal Chemistry; Vol. 36(5); (1993); p. 544
551.
EXAMPLES
[00119]                                                         The following examples
are provided to further illustrate several embodiments of the invention.
Example 1
[00120]                                                         A             prospective
randomized observer blinded end-point trial was conducted to determine whether
adding 0.5mg/day of colchicine to standard secondary prevention therapies including
aspirin and high dose statins reduces the risk of cardiovascular events in patients
with objectively diagnosed and clinically stable coronary disease.
Methods
[00121]                                                         Study     Conduct     and
Design: The LoDoCo Trial was conducted under the auspices of the Heart Research
Institute of Western Australia. It was designed by the principal investigators,
registered with the Australian Clinical Trial Registry [12610000293066], and received
ethics approval from the Human Research Ethics Committee at Sir Charles Gairdner
Hospital Perth Western Australia in July 2008. There was no external funding
source.
[00122]                                                         We employed a PROBE
[Prospective Randomized, Open, Blinded End-point] design [8] Eligible consenting
patients with established coronary disease presenting for routine clinical review were
randomized to receive colchicine 0.5mg/day or no colchicine without any other
change to their medical therapy. All outcomes were evaluated by an experienced
adjudicator blinded to the treatment allocation.
[00123]                                                         Study       Size     and
Eligibility: It was planned to recruit a study population that would include 250 patients

                                            28
randomized to the control group and 250 patients randomized to treatment who were
tolerant of colchicine for at least 4 weeks after the date of their randomization.
[00124]                                                          Patients were eligible for
inclusion if they met each of the following criteria: 1] angiographically proven
coronary disease; 2] aged 35 to 85 years; 3] clinically stable for at least 6 months, 4]
no major competing co-morbidities or contra-indication to colchicine therapy, 5]
considered to be compliant with therapy and attending routine cardiology follow up
appointments, and 6] willing to be consented and randomized into the study.
Patients with a history of bypass surgery were only eligible if they had undergone
bypass surgery more than 10 years before, or had angiographic evidence of graft
failure or had undergone stenting since their bypass surgery. All patients signed
informed consent before randomization.
[00125]                                                         Randomization:         The
randomization sequence was computer generated, kept concealed from the
investigators at all times and was managed by a research assistant who had no
involvement in the evaluation or management of study patients. Once the assistant
received the consent form, the patients' demographic data were entered into the
data base and the investigators and patients were advised in writing of the treatment
group to which the patient had been assigned.
[00126]                                                         Despite electing to use
the lowest dose of colchicine available, it was anticipated that a number of patients
would withdraw from therapy early after randomisation due to gastrointestinal side
effects. In order to ensure that the requisite number of patients in the treatment arm
were actually tolerant of treatment, the protocol allowed for the research assistant to
assign a newly recruited patient to treatment if a patient discontinued colchicine due
to side effects in the first month. Patients who were intolerant to therapy remained in
the study, and were followed in the usual manner and included in the primary
intention to treat analysis.
[00127]                                                         Intervention:    Patients
randomized to active treatment were given a prescription for colchicine 0.5 mg daily
by their referring cardiologist. The drug was dispensed by their usual chemist, and if

                                            29
requested, patients were reimbursed for the cost of these scripts. All other
treatments were continued as usual.
[00128]                                                       Follow-up and definition
of clinical outcomes: Patient compliance with treatment and outcome data were
collected at routine follow up visits and at the time of any unplanned hospital
admission.
[00129]                                                      An     acute    coronary
syndrome (ACS) was defined as either [a] Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI), as
evidenced by acute ischemic chest pain associated with a rise in serum troponin
above the upper limit of normal [9] or [b] Unstable Angina (UA), as evidenced by a
recent acceleration of the patients angina unassociated with a rise in serum troponin
but associated with angiographic evidence of a change in the patient's coronary
anatomy. (Unstable Angina Braunwald classification types IB and IIB) [10]. The ACS
was characterized as being stent-related if there was evidence of significant in-stent
stenosis or acute stent thrombosis. Out of Hospital Cardiac Arrest was defined as
either a sudden death as evidenced on the patients' death certificate, or a non-fatal
out of hospital cardiac arrest, defined as a recovery from sudden collapse associated
with documented asystole, ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Non
cardio-embolic ischemic stroke was defined as CT or MRI proven ischemic stroke
adjudged by the treating neurologist as not being due to atrial fibrillation or intra
cranial hemorrhage.
[00130]                                                      The    primary   efficacy
outcome was the composite, ACS, fatal or non-fatal out of hospital cardiac arrest or
non-cardio-embolic ischemic stroke.
[00131]                                                      Secondary      outcomes
were [a] individual components of the primary outcome, and [b] the components of
ACS unrelated to stent disease.
[00132]       Timelines: The pre-specified study duration was a minimum follow up
of two years in all patients. Accordingly the study was closed on May 31, 2012.
During May, all living patients were contacted by phone to collect compliance and

                                            30
outcome data from the last date of follow-up. Final outcome data were available in all
patients and no patients were lost to follow up.
[00133]        Statistical Power: Assuming that the control group had a combined
event rate [ACS, out of hospital cardiac arrest or non cardio-embolic-ischemic stroke]
of 8% [11], an accrual interval of 2 years and a follow-up after the accrual interval of
2 years, the planned sample size provided >80% power to detect a hazard ratio of
<0.50 based on a two sided significance level of 5%.
[00134]        Data analysis: Summary statistics, including mean and standard
deviation were calculated for all baseline characteristics by treatment arm. All time to
event outcomes were calculated in days by subtracting the date of randomisation
from either: (1) the date of event or death; or (2) the trial termination date for those
patients not experiencing the defined event.
[00135]        As pre-specified, the primary efficacy analysis was based on the
intention-to-treat principle. The intention-to-treat analysis included all randomized
subjects and all events during the time from randomization to the trial termination.
Trial termination date was fixed as May 31, 2012. A secondary pre-specified on
treatment analysis was also performed, based on patients who were both tolerant
and compliant to therapy beyond the first month of randomization. All events during
the time from randomisation until non-compliance with colchicine treatment regimen
were included in this analysis.
[00136]        The time-to-first-event for all outcomes is presented using a Kaplan
Meier plot.
[00137]        The primary efficacy outcome was analysed using a cox proportional
hazards model including treatment group coded as control or colchicine. The
secondary outcomes were analysed similarly. In addition, the primary analysis was
stratified by gender, age, diagnosis of diabetes, past myocardial infarction, unstable
angina, coronary bypass surgery, coronary angioplasty, and therapy with aspirin,
clopidogrel or both, high dose statin therapy (defined as a dose of statin equivalent
to atorvastatin of 40mg or more), beta blockers, calcium blockers and ACE inhibitors.
Results

                                              31
[00138]        Study Population: Between August 2008 and May 2010, 901 patients
with stable coronary disease attending for routine out-patient cardiology review were
assessed for eligibility for the study. Of these, 297 [33%] did not meet the entry
criteria, 72 [8%] declined to participate and 532 [59%] were enrolled into the study,
250 of whom were randomized to the control group and 282 to treatment. Of those
randomized to treatment 32 [11%] reported early intolerance, due to gastrointestinal
side effects, and 7 patients subsequently reported that they chose not start therapy
(Figure 1). All 532 randomized patients were followed for the duration of the study
period which ranged from a minimum of 24 to a maximum of 44 months. Median
follow up was 36 months.
[00139]        Baseline characteristics according to randomized treatment groups are
shown     in  Table.1.   Both   groups    were well      matched      for   important clinical
characteristics although more patients in the colchicine group were taking calcium
channel blockers and less were taking beta-blocker therapy. Almost all patients in
each group were taking anti-platelet therapy and high dose statin therapy.
Table 1: Study Population
                                             Control n [%]            Treatment n [%]
Total                                        250                      282
Mean Age                                     67+9.2                   66+9.6
Males                                        222 [89]                 251 [89]
Diabetic                                     69 [28]                  92 [33]
Smoker                                       14 (6]                   10 [4]
Past AMI or UA                               61 [24]                  64 [23]
CABG                                         39 [16]                  62 [22]
PTCA                                         138 [55]                 169 [60]
Aspirin and/or Plavix                        235 [94]                 262 [93]
DAPT                                         24 [10]                  38 [13]
High Dose Statins                            235 [94]                 271 [96]
BB1                                          178 [71]                 176 (62]
CBB  2
                                             25 [10]                  52 [18]
ACE                                          150 [60]                 155 [55]
'p<0.05 2 p<0.01 for the comparison of the distributions between treatment and control
Past AMI or UA                History of myocardial infarction or unstable angina

                                               32
CABG            Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery
PTCA            History of Percutaneous Coronary Angioplasty
DAPT            Dual anti-platelet therapy [Aspirin and Clopidogrel]
BB              Beta-blocker therapy,
CCB             Calcium Chanel Blocker therapy
ACE             ACE inhibitor therapy
[00140]         Late discontinuations: 30 patients ceased colchicine therapy after a
mean period of 2.36 years. Therapy was ceased due to an unrelated inter-current
illness in 11 patients, by choice in 5, and for a variety of possible drug related effects
in 14 patients [4.9%] as described in Table 2.
Table 2: Withdrawals from therapy
                                                      n [%/]
  Early Withdrawals                                   32 [11]
  Late Withdrawals*                                   30 [11]
   Unrelated inter-current illness                    11 [3.9]
   Patient Choice                                     5 [1.8]
  Perceived Side effects
   Intestinal upset                                   7 [2.5]
   Myalgia                                            2 [0.90]
   Myositis                                           1 [<0.5]
   Rash                                               1 [<0.5]
   Alopecia                                           1 [<0.5]
   Itch                                               1 [<0.5]
   Peripheral Neuritis                                1 [<0.5]
* Withdrawals after 30 days, Average time to withdrawal 2.36 years
[00141]         Outcomes; A primary outcome occurred in 55/532 patients, including
15/282 [5.3%] patients assigned to colchicine treatment, and 40/250 [16%] patients
assigned to the control group [hazard ratio 0.33, 95% Cl; 0.18-0.59; p<0.001,
number needed to treat 11]. A sensitivity analysis was performed for the primary
outcome, adjusting for the usage of calcium channel blockers and beta blocker
therapy. These results were consistent with the primary analysis.

                                               33
[00142]        The time to first clinical event in each group by treatment is shown in
Figure 2. The effect of colchicine on the primary outcome was evident early and the
benefits of colchicine continued to accrue throughout the follow up period. Results of
the primary analysis were consistent in all subgroups examined (Figure 3); There
was no evidence of differential treatment effects based on any of the clinical or
therapeutic variables.
[00143]        The reduction in the primary outcome was largely driven by the
reduction in the number of patients presenting with an ACS, [13/282 [4.6%] vs
34/250 [13.4%], hazard ratio 0.33; 95% Cl; 0.18-0.63; p<0.001]. Out of hospital
cardiac arrest and non-cardio-embolic ischemic stroke were infrequent but were also
reduced in the treatment group (Table 3).
Table 3: Primary Outcome and its Components
                 Control [n=250] Treatment [n=282] HR 95% Cl          p value
                               n [%]             n [%]
Primary Outcome                       40 [16]          15 [5.3]  0.33; 0.18-0.59
<0.001
Components of Primary Outcome
 Acute Coronary Syndrome             34 [13.6]         13 [4.6]  0.33; 0.18-0.63
<0.001
 OOH Cardiac Arrest                   2 [0.8]          1 [0.35   0.47; 0.04-5.15
0.534
 Non-Cardio-Embolic Stroke           4 [1.6]           1 [0.35]  0.23; 0.03-2.03
0.184
Components of ACS
 Stent Related                         4 [1.6]          4 (1.4]         NS
 Non-Stent Related                    30 [12]           9 [3.2]   0.26; 0.12-0.55
<0.001
 Non-Stent Related AMI               14 [5.6]          4 [1.6]   0.25; 0.08-0.76
0.014
 Non-Stent Related UA                 16 [12]           5 [2.4]  0.27; 0.10-0.75
0.011

                                             34
 OOH Out of Hospital
ACS      Acute Coronary Syndrome
AMI      Acute Myocardial Infarction
UA      Unstable Angina
1 Non-Fatal
[00144]        Of the 47 patients who presented with an ACS, the event was stent
related in 8 [17%] [2 in each group had evidence of acute stent thrombosis and 2 in
each group had evidence of significant in-stent stenosis]. Further analysis confirmed
that patients randomized to treatment were less likely to present with an ACS
unrelated to stent disease (9/282 [3.2%] vs 30/250 [12%] hazard ratio 0.26, 95% Cl;
0.12-0.55; p<0.001), be it associated with an AMI (4/282 [1.4%] vs 14/250 [5.6%]
hazard ratio 0.25, 95% Cl; 0.08-0.76; p=0.014) or UA (5/282 [1.8%] vs 16/250 [6.4%]
hazard ratio 0.27, 95% Cl; 0.10-0.75; p=0.011). (Figure 4, Table 3)
[00145]        Of 39 patients randomized to treatment who did not receive therapy
beyond the first month due to early intolerance or non-compliance, 4 [10%]
presented with an ACS due to acute stent thrombosis (n=1) and UA (n=3). Patients
who were both compliant and tolerant to therapy beyond the first month of
randomization had significantly fewer events than the control patients (11/243 [4.5%]
vs 40/250 [16%] hazard ratio 0.29, 95% Cl; 0.15-0.56; p<0.001). The results of all
on-treatment analyses were consistent with those based upon the intention to treat
analyses (Table 4).
Table 4: Primary Outcome and its Components [On-Treatment Analysis]
                              Control [n=250]   Treatment [n=243]    HR 95% Cl      p
value
                                                        n [%]              n [%]
Primary Outcome                      40 [16]        11 [5.3]      0.29 (0.15, 0.56)
<0.001
Components of Primary Outcome
  Acute Coronary Syndrome            34 [13.6]      9 [4.6]       0.28 (0.13, 0.58)
<0.001

                                               35
  OOH Cardiac Arrest                   2 [0.8]      1 [0.35]'     0.55 (0.05, 6.03)
0.622
Non-Cardio-Embolic Stroke            4 (1.6]      1 [0.35]        0.27 (0.03, 2.42)
0.242
Components of ACS
 Stent Related                         4 [1.6]      3 [1.4]           NS
  Non-Stent Related                    30 [12]       6 [3.2]      0.21 (0.09, 0.50)
<0.001
  Non-Stent Related AMI               14 [5.6]      4 [1.6]       0.30 (0.10, 0.91)
0.033
  Non-Stent Related UA                 16 [12]      2 [2.4]       0.13 (0.03, 0.57)
0.007
OOH      Out of Hospital
ACS      Acute Coronary Syndrome
AMI      Acute Myocardial Infarction
UA      Unstable Angina
1 Non-Fatal
[00146]        Ten patients in the control group died compared with 4 patients in the
colchicine group. Of the 10 controls, 5 died of presumed cardiac cause; 2 following
an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, 2 from cardiogenic shock following myocardial
infarction, and 1 following bypass surgery. All 4 patients in the colchicine group died
of non-cardiac causes.
[00147]        The LoDoCo trial demonstrates that the addition of colchicine
0.5mg/day to standard therapy in patients with stable coronary disease significantly
reduces the risk of a cardiovascular event, including an ACS, out of hospital cardiac
arrest and non-cardio-embolic ischemic stroke. The benefits of colchicine were
achieved on a background of widespread use of effective secondary prevention
strategies, including high dose statins, as evidenced by the low event rate in the
control group. The effect of adding colchicine became evident early, continued to
accrue over time and was largely driven by a reduction in ACS unrelated to stent
disease.

                                          36
[00148]       Numerous variations and modifications will suggest themselves to
persons skilled in the relevant art, in addition to those already described, without
departing from the basic inventive concepts. All such variations and modifications
are to be considered within the scope of the present invention, the nature of which is
to be determined from the foregoing description.

                                                 37
   CLAIMS
1. A method for the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject with
   atherosclerotic vascular disease comprising the step of:
          a) administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula (1),
              a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof
                                            Formula (1)
                                                            R2
                                                 R1
                                       R11       Rn1 2
                                                                           Ro
                                  RR12
                                                                        RI
                                       R1
                                   R
                                                                       R4
                                                                   R5'
                                         Re                    R51"
                                            Ra N         R  WRe
                                                  R7
   wherein:
   R1, R2, R3, R4, R9, R1O, R11 and R12 independently represent hydrogen, C 1.4alkyl, C2-4
   alkenyl, C3.6 cycloalkyl, halogen, C14 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C2-4acylamino, C1. 4 alkyl
   or dialkylamino, hydroxyl, C1 4      alkoxy,     C1.4 alkylthio, a group of the formula
   SO 2 N(RX) 2 or SO 2 R' where R' is C1. 4 alkyl, C1 .4 acyloxy, or optionally substituted
   phenyl, optionally substituted phenoxy ;
   R7 and R8 independently represent hydrogen, C1 .4 alkyl or C1 4 acyl; and
   R 5 ', R5", R6' and R6 " independently represent hydrogen, C14 alkyl, C24 alkenyl, C3-6
   cycloalkyl, halogen, C1.4 haloalkyl, nitro, amino, C24 acylamino, hydroxyl, C1 . 4 alkoxy
   or C1 .4 alkylthio a group of the formula -SO 2N(RX) 2 or SO 2 Rx where Rx is C1 4 alkyl,
   C1- acyloxy, or optionally substituted phenyl.

                                               38
2. Use of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof
   in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a
   cardiovascular event in a subject with atherosclerotic vascular disease.
3. A composition for the prevention or treatment of a cardiovascular event in a subject
   with atherosclerotic vascular disease, the composition comprising a therapeutically
   effective amount of a compound of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or
   a salt thereof and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable additives, excipients
   carriers and/or diluents.
4. The composition of claim 3 comprising between 0.05 and 0.95 mg, between 0.1 and
   0.9 mg, between 0.2 and 0.8 mg, or between 0.4 and 0.7 mg of a compound of
   formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
5. The composition of claim 4 comprising between 0.5 mg and 0.6 mg of a compound
   of formula (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
6. The composition of claim 4 comprising 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula
   (1), a known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the compound of formula (1), a known colchicine
   derivative and/or a salt thereof is administered once or more per day.
8. A method for reducing or preventing cholesterol crystal induced inflammation within
   atherosclerotic plaques in a subject, comprising the step of
          administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
          known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the subject has atherosclerotic vascular disease.
10.A regimen for the treatment or prevention of a cardiovascular event in a subject, the
   regimen comprising the step of:
          administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
          known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof once per day.

                                                 39
1i.A regimen for reducing or preventing cholesterol crystal induced inflammation within
   atherosclerotic plaq ues in a subject, the regimen comprising the step of:
         administering a dosage of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg of a compound of formula (1), a
         known colchicine derivative and/or a salt thereof once per day.
12.The regimen of claim 10 or 11 wherein the subject has atherosclerotic vascular
   disease.
13.The method of claim 1 or 9, use of claim 2, composition of claim 3 or regimen of
   claim 12 wherein the atherosclerotic vascular disease is a coronary disease.
14.The method of claim 1 or 8, use of claim 2, composition of claim 3 or regimen of
   claim 12 wherein the cardiovascular event is chosen from the list comprising: acute
   coronary syndrome (including ischemic chest pain, acute myocardial infarction,
   unstable angina); cardiac arrest; or stroke including non-cardio-embolic ischemic
   stroke.
15.The method of claim I or 8, use of claim 2, composition of claim 3 or regimen of
   claim 10 or 11 wherein the composition or medicament further comprises one or
   more additional agents selected from the list comprising: a statin and/or an anti
   platelet agent.
16.The method, use, composition or regimen of claim 13 wherein the coronary disease
   is a clinically stable coronary disease.
                                Murray & Poole Enterprises, Ltd.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                                                    <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+2721><U+270C><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                                                     <U+272A><U+273A><U+2719><U+273B><U+272B><U+271D><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+272D><U+273C><U+2714><U+2717>
                                                                                     <U+273D>       <U+273E><U+271F><U+270E> <U+2723><U+2706><U+2706><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712><U+261E>       <U+270C><U+2712><U+2719><U+2718><U+273F><U+260E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2712>
                                                                                     <U+2719><U+2720><U+270C><U+270E><U+2706><U+2720><U+270C><U+271A> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713> <U+2725><U+2714><U+2740><U+2741>
<removed-apn>
                                                           <U+2727><U+271A><U+2712><U+271D><U+271F><U+2723><U+270C><U+2742><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2743> <U+2722><U+272D><U+2725><U+2717>
              <U+2704><U+2718><U+2721><U+271F><U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271F><U+2721><U+2719><U+271B><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2712><U+2706> <U+2715><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+261E><U+2724><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2725><U+2717>                           <U+2704><U+2744><U+2721><U+271F><U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+2719><U+271F><U+2712><U+270E><U+2720><U+271F><U+273B> <U+261E><U+2720><U+271F><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
              <U+2727><U+2706><U+2719><U+2706><U+270C><U+2605><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2719><U+271F><U+2718><U+2719><U+271B><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2712><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2719><U+2720><U+270C><U+2729><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2725><U+2717>
              <U+272A><U+271A><U+2720><U+2718><U+270F> <U+2719><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E><U+271A><U+270E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2712> <U+271D><U+272B><U+2706> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+270C><U+271D><U+2706> <U+2706><U+272C><U+2706><U+2719><U+270E><U+260E> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+272D><U+2725><U+2717>
                <U+272E><U+271F><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2721><U+2721><U+271F><U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717>
                <U+2731><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2712><U+271F><U+270E> <U+260E><U+270E><U+271A><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271F><U+2718><U+2719><U+271B><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2712><U+2706> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2732><U+2717>                                    <U+272E><U+271F><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2745><U+273B><U+273B><U+271F><U+272F><U+2746><U+272B><U+2729> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717>
                <U+2733><U+2706><U+271A><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2719><U+271F><U+2718><U+2719><U+271B><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2712><U+2706> <U+2721><U+271A><U+270E><U+2706> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2715><U+2717> <U+2734><U+2735><U+271A><U+270D><U+2718><U+2706> <U+2725><U+2736>
                  <U+2737><U+2712><U+2719><U+2718><U+272B><U+271D><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270C><U+2712> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2739><U+2723><U+271A><U+2720><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2712><U+271A><U+2718><U+270F><U+260E><U+270C><U+260E> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2725><U+2717>                           <U+2747><U+2712><U+2719><U+273B><U+272B><U+271D><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270C><U+2712> <U+2738><U+2720><U+270C><U+2723><U+271A><U+2720><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2712><U+271A><U+2718><U+270F><U+260E><U+270C><U+260E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2725><U+2722><U+2715><U+2717>
                                                              <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> 

                                                         <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F> <U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+271F><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+261B><U+2714><U+2706>
                          <U+2715>
                          <U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2717>
                     <U+2718>    <U+2716>
                     <U+2719>
                     <U+271A>
                     <U+2719>
                     <U+271B>
                     <U+271C>
                     <U+2722>    <U+2723>
                          <U+2716>
                                                                           <U+275A><U+276F> <U+2730><U+2771><U+2772><U+2772>
                                                                       <U+25B2><U+2744><U+2773> <U+2726><U+2605> <U+274A><U+2730><U+2768><U+2741><U+2740><U+2769><U+2730><U+276C><U+2744><U+25B2><U+276D>
                                                                           <U+276A><U+276B><U+2730><U+2774><U+2730><U+2730><U+2741>
                          <U+2724>
                          <U+2716>
                                     <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+2729><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
                          <U+2725>          <U+272E><U+2727> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272F><U+2729><U+272F><U+272C><U+272D>
                          <U+2716>
                              <U+2730>      <U+2731><U+2730><U+2730>      <U+2732><U+2730><U+2730>       <U+2746><U+2747><U+2730>      <U+2740><U+2730><U+2730>       <U+2741><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730>     <U+2741><U+2731><U+2730><U+2730>    <U+2741><U+2732><U+2730><U+2730>
                                                         <U+2748><U+272F><U+2749><U+272D> <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F>
                            <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+273A> <U+2738><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D>
              <U+2726><U+273E><U+2605><U+2729><U+273F><U+272F><U+2729><U+272F><U+272C><U+272D>     <U+2731><U+2740><U+2731>     <U+2731><U+2740><U+2741>      <U+2731><U+2742><U+2742>       <U+2731><U+2751><U+2731>      <U+2731><U+2732><U+25B2>       <U+2741><U+25B2><U+2731>        <U+2740><U+2745>
              <U+2743><U+2727> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+273F><U+272F><U+2729><U+272F><U+272C><U+272D> <U+2731><U+2744><U+2730>      <U+2731><U+2732><U+2732>      <U+2731><U+2745><U+2732>       <U+2731><U+2731><U+25B2>      <U+2731><U+2741><U+2731>       <U+2741><U+2740><U+2732>        <U+2775><U+275B>
                                                     <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>| <U+2759>

                                           <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                             <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>                                   <U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>         <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>                <U+2729>                   <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735>
              <U+2736><U+2737><U+271C><U+2738><U+2739><U+2726>          <U+2605><U+2730><U+273A>                 <U+273B>                  <U+272A><U+272F><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+272A><U+272B><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2730><U+272F><U+2730><U+273F><U+2740>
              <U+2736><U+2737><U+271C> <U+2739><U+2741><U+2742>         <U+272D><U+2730><U+2743>                <U+2744>                   <U+2745><U+272F><U+2605><U+2739> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+273F><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+2733><U+2731><U+2735>
              <U+2746><U+2747><U+2723><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>        <U+2730><U+2739><U+2730>                                    <U+272A><U+272F><U+2605><U+2739> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272B><U+272A><U+2731><U+274D> <U+272A><U+272F><U+2731><U+273F>
              <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+274B><U+2723><U+25C6><U+271C><U+2756>P<U+25CF>    <U+2727><U+25D7><U+2730>                  |                 <U+272A><U+272B><U+272D><U+2739> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272B><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+25D7><U+273F><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2759><U+2723><U+275A><U+2756><U+2736><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2736>       <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769>                                    <U+272A><U+272F><U+2605><U+2734><U+276C><U+272A><U+272B><U+2745><U+2731><U+274D> <U+2730><U+272F><U+276D><U+276A><U+2735>
              <U+274F><U+2751><U+276B><U+2723><U+2774><U+2756><U+2736><U+2775><U+275B><U+2772><U+2736>     <U+275C><U+272A><U+25D7>                  <U+275D>                 <U+272A><U+275E><U+272D><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+2761><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+2739><U+2733> <U+2762>
              <U+2763><U+2736><U+2764><U+2710>            <U+2730><U+272A><U+2730>                                    <U+272A><U+2765><U+273C><U+273C> <U+2766> <U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+273F><U+2767> <U+2730><U+272F><U+2733><U+2739><U+2660>
              <U+274F><U+2751> <U+2665><U+2736><U+2764><U+2710>         <U+275C><U+272D><U+272A>                  <U+2666>                 <U+272A><U+2663><U+272D><U+272A> q <U+272A><U+272B><U+2730><U+2733><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+2739><U+272A> <U+2762>
              rs<U+2665>t            <U+2727><U+272A><U+25D7>                  <U+2709>                 <U+272A><U+275E><U+272D><U+2739> <U+272E><U+272A><U+275E><U+2730><U+25D7><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+2731><U+272A><U+2708>
              <U+274F><U+2751>rs<U+2707><U+2736>          <U+2460><U+2605><U+2726>                  <U+2461>                 <U+272A><U+272F><U+2605><U+2734> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+273F><U+2767> <U+272A><U+272F><U+2761><U+273F><U+2462>
              <U+2746><U+2463>rs             <U+2739><U+2605>                                    <U+272A><U+272B><U+2460><U+273A><U+2464><U+272A><U+272F><U+272A><U+25D7><U+2732><U+2730><U+2465><U+2730><U+2460><U+2735>
              <U+274F><U+2751><U+2746><U+2736>rs          <U+275C><U+25D7><U+272A>                  <U+2466>                 <U+272A><U+272F><U+272D><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2730><U+276A><U+2732><U+2745><U+272F><U+2467><U+2727> <U+2468>
              <U+2469><U+2469>              <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778>                  |                 <U+272A><U+272B><U+273C><U+2730> <U+272E><U+272A><U+272F><U+2605><U+272A><U+2732><U+2745><U+272F><U+273A><U+2605><U+2779>
              <U+274F><U+2751><U+2469><U+2469>            <U+2730><U+277A><U+273A>                                    <U+272A><U+272F><U+2460><U+272A> <U+2766> <U+272A><U+272F><U+272A><U+2761><U+2732><U+272A><U+272F><U+2739><U+2730> <U+277B>
              <U+2736><U+2763><U+277C>             <U+272D><U+272A><U+2726>               <U+277D> <U+277E>                  <U+272A><U+272F><U+273F><U+273C> <U+277F> <U+272A><U+275E><U+2730><U+272A><U+2780> <U+272A><U+272F><U+2733><U+2733> <U+2781>
              <U+274F><U+2751><U+2736><U+2763><U+277C>           <U+2782><U+2783>                       <U+2784>             <U+272A><U+272F><U+273C><U+2734><U+273E><U+272A><U+275E><U+2605><U+272A><U+2732><U+2730><U+272F><U+2730><U+2734><U+2740>
                                          <U+272A><U+272F><U+272A><U+272C>    <U+272A><U+272F><U+272D><U+2605>        <U+2605><U+272F><U+2734><U+273C>
                                          <U+2785><U+2786><U+2787><U+2723><U+2722><U+2788> <U+2789><U+2723><U+2756><U+278A><U+2751> <U+278B><U+2725><U+2720><U+2737> <U+278C><U+25CF><U+2723><U+2724><U+271C><U+278D>
                                        <U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792><U+2793> <U+2794>

                                                                        <U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                    <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2704><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2721> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>                                 <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2704><U+270C><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271D><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2711><U+260E><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2721><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2720><U+261B><U+261E>
                   <U+2716>                                                            <U+2716>
                 <U+2717><U+2718>                                                             <U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+271A>                                                         <U+2719>
              <U+271B><U+271C> <U+2718>                                                          <U+271B><U+271C> <U+2718>
              <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2723>                                                          <U+2722><U+2724> <U+2723>
                 <U+2718>                                  <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2729>                  <U+272A> <U+2718>                                 <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
                                                <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2727><U+2739><U+272D><U+2729><U+273A>                                          <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2727><U+2605><U+2736><U+272C><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+272F><U+272F><U+273A>
                   <U+273E><U+2718>                                <U+273F><U+2740><U+2727><U+273D><U+2727><U+2741><U+2742>                   <U+273E><U+2718>                                <U+273F><U+2743><U+2727><U+2605><U+2727><U+2727><U+2744>
                                <U+2731><U+2745><U+2732><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>                                                  <U+2731><U+2745><U+274D><U+2749><U+2747><U+274F><U+2751><U+274B><U+25CF>
                                <U+25C6><U+2745> <U+2731><U+2745><U+274D><U+2756><U+2747>P<U+2756><U+2748><U+274B><U+25D7>                                               <U+25C6><U+2745> <U+2731><U+2745><U+274D><U+275A><U+276F><U+2732><U+2756><U+2748><U+274B><U+25CF>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2718>                                                         |<U+2759><U+2718>
                         <U+2727>    <U+272C><U+2771><U+2727> <U+2772><U+2727><U+2741> <U+272D><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2737><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2727><U+2741> <U+2736><U+272C><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2773><U+2772><U+2727><U+2727>                         <U+2727>     <U+2768><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2772><U+273C><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2737><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2769><U+2727><U+2727><U+2741> <U+2736><U+272C><U+2727><U+2727> <U+276C><U+2772><U+2727><U+2727>
                                      <U+276D><U+2748><U+276A><U+25CF> <U+2733><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C>                                                  <U+276D>P<U+276A><U+25CF> <U+2733><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C>
                             <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+275D><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+275E><U+2704><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271D><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E><U+2711><U+260E><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2721><U+2713><U+2711><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2720><U+2761><U+2762>                          <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2704><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+271D><U+270E><U+2763><U+261E><U+2711><U+260E><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+260E><U+2721><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2764><U+2720>
                   <U+2716>                                                            <U+2716>
                 <U+2717><U+2718>                                                            <U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2719>   <U+2710>                                                           <U+2766><U+2718>
              <U+271B><U+271C> <U+2718>                                                       <U+2722><U+2765>
                                                                          <U+271C><U+2767>
               <U+2724> <U+2723>                                                           <U+2723>
              <U+2666> <U+2718>                                   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2660><U+272C><U+272F>                <U+2663><U+2665> <U+2718>                                  <U+2725><U+2726><U+2741><U+2605><U+272C>q
                                                <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2727><U+2605><U+2727><U+2737>r<U+2727><U+2605>s<U+272D><U+273A>                                          <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2709> <U+2733><U+2734><U+2708><U+2707><U+2727><U+2738><U+273C><U+2460>s<U+272F><U+273A>
                  <U+2718><U+2461>                                <U+273F><U+2462><U+2727><U+273D><U+2727><U+276C><U+2463>                   t<U+2718>                                 <U+273F><U+2464><U+2727><U+2605><U+2727><U+276C><U+2744>
                                <U+2731><U+2745><U+2732><U+2465><U+2747><U+2732><U+2749><U+2466><U+274B><U+25CF>                                                  <U+2731><U+2745><U+2732><U+2467><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+2748><U+274B><U+25CF>
                  <U+2468><U+2469><U+2718>           <U+25C6><U+2745> <U+2731><U+2745><U+2776><U+2777><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+2748><U+274B><U+25CF>                                <U+2718><U+2778><U+2469>            <U+25C6><U+2745> <U+2731><U+2745><U+2776><U+2749><U+2747><U+2779><U+2749><U+2748><U+274B><U+25CF>
                         <U+2727>    <U+272C><U+2727><U+2727> <U+277A><U+2727><U+2741> <U+277B><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2737><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2744><U+2727><U+2727><U+2727> <U+276C><U+272C><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2744><U+2772><U+2727><U+2741>                         <U+2727>    <U+272C><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2463><U+2727><U+2727> <U+272D><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2737><U+2741><U+2727> <U+2744><U+2727><U+2727><U+2727> <U+276C><U+277C><U+2727><U+2727> <U+2742><U+2463><U+2727><U+2741>
                                      <U+276D><U+2751><U+277D><U+25CF> <U+2733><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C>                                                 <U+276D><U+277E><U+276A><U+25CF> <U+277F><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C>
                                                                     <U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783><U+2784><U+2785> <U+2786>

