Abstract
A modular staircase assembly, including a plurality of modular staircase units
connected together to form a modular staircase.          Each modular staircase unit
comprises a cage within which a staircase is confined. The cage has an upper end
and a bottom end and the staircase extends between the upper and bottom ends.
The upper end of one modular staircase unit is releasably connectable to the bottom
end of another modular staircase unit to form a vertically extending modular staircase
whereby the upper and bottom ends of each modular staircase unit allows passage
of personnel so that personnel can move vertically from one modular staircase unit to
the next modular staircase unit via the staircases confined within the modular
staircase units. The modular staircase units are also each releasably connected to a
mounting structure that extends from a support structure, whereby the uppermost
modular staircase unit of the modular staircase is connected to the mounting
structure. The length of the modular staircase can be extended by firstly connecting a
further modular staircase unit to the uppermost modular staircase unit of the modular
staircase to form an extended modular staircase, and then secondly by disconnecting
the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure and reconnecting the
extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by connection of the further
modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.

ivi
        ro2am
    §9d

                                              1
                            MODULAR STAIRCASE ASSEMBLY
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates generally to modular staircase assemblies
that are used in the construction industry, in particular the excavation or tunnelling
industry.
Background of Invention
[0002]      A reference herein to prior art is not to be taken as an admission that the
prior art was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of
the claims.
[0003]      The tunnelling and excavation industries are often required to excavate
deep into the ground and for access to within the excavation, various arrangements
can be used. For example, vertical lifts can be employed, whereby a vertical lift
structure is installed and a lift platform or cage can be raised and lowered as required.
[0004]      Alternatively, and for more shallow excavations, ladders can be lowered
into the excavation and these include safety ladders whereby personnel descending
or ascending the ladder have a safety cage about them.
[0005]      A difficulty with many arrangements provided for access to deeper
excavations, is that the height or depth of the access arrangement is not easily
altered. This is not a problem where the depth of the excavation does not change,
but in many excavations, the depth of the excavation will grow as excavation
continues and in those excavations, continued access to the full depth of the
excavation is required as the depth of the excavation grows. This means that
whatever access arrangement is employed, there is a need to increase the length of
the access arrangement in terms of height or depth, as the excavation grows, in order
to continue to provide access to the full depth of the excavation.
[0006]      Some access arrangements that are currently employed permit the
addition of further access structure at the bottom of the existing structure when the
<filename>

                                             2
depth of the excavation increases. This means that as the excavation deepens, the
access arrangement can be lengthened to continue to provide access to the full depth
of the excavation. However, the additional structure that is attached to the bottom of
the existing structure must be lowered into the excavation such as by crane and
installed at the bottom end of the existing structure. This typically means that the
after lowering the additional structure, it then needs to be lifted into connection with
the existing structure. Where the excavation is deep, the lowering and subsequent
lifting can be time consuming and difficult. Arrangements of this kind, while permitting
an increase in the length or depth of the access arrangement, are nevertheless
inconvenient in relation to the manner in which the depth increase is created.
[0007]      The present invention seeks to provide an improved assembly for providing
access to the interior of an excavation.
Summary of Invention
[0008]      In accordance with one embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
modular staircase assembly, including a plurality of modular staircase units connected
together to form a modular staircase, each modular staircase unit comprising a cage
within which a staircase is confined, the cage having an upper end and a bottom end
and the staircase extending between the upper and bottom ends, the upper end of
one modular staircase unit being releasably connectable to the bottom end of another
modular staircase unit to form a vertically extending modular staircase whereby the
upper and bottom ends of each modular staircase unit allows passage of personnel
so that personnel can move vertically from one modular staircase unit to the next
modular staircase unit via the staircases confined within the modular staircase units,
the modular staircase units also each being releasably connected to a mounting
structure that extends from a support structure, whereby the uppermost modular
staircase unit of the modular staircase is connected to the mounting structure, and
whereby the length of the modular staircase can be extended by firstly connecting a
further modular staircase unit to the uppermost modular staircase unit of the modular
staircase to form an extended modular staircase, and then secondly by disconnecting
the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure and reconnecting the
extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by connection of the further
modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.
<filename>

                                           3
[0009]       A modular staircase assembly according to the invention advantageously
facilitates the extension of depth to which a modular staircase assembly reaches, by
the addition of modular staircase units from the top end of the existing modular
staircase. In most cases, the top end of the modular staircase will be at the ground
level of an excavation, or at the capping level. At that level, equipment to lift and
manoeuvre modular staircase units is readily available and might comprise forklifts, or
cranes. Advantageously, if a crane is to be used, there is little distance for the
modular staircase units to be lifted and placed. This differs from the prior art
arrangements in which the additional access structure must be lowered for the full
depth of the excavation and this can be in the order of 10 metres to 50 metres of
lowering depth.
[0010]       A modular staircase assembly according to the invention also
advantageously includes staircases within each modular staircase unit and thus
provides easy vertical travel for personnel that access the modular staircase
assembly. The modular staircase assembly according to the invention therefore
makes vertical travel easier than is the case with ladders that are connected together,
and is less mechanically complex than vertical lifts. In this latter respect, a modular
staircase assembly according to the invention is not required to be powered.
[0011]       The support structure as defined above can thus be constituted by the
upper lip of an excavation, or the capping as described. While the support structure
can be otherwise provided, in excavations, the upper lip or capping of the excavation
is a convenient point to which the mounting structure can be mounted.
[0012]       The mounting structure can take any suitable form. In forms developed to
date, the mounting structure can include a first section which overlies the upper lip or
capping of the excavation and which connects to that lip or capping. For cement
capping, the connection can be by suitable bolting into the capping.
[0013]       A second section of the mounting structure can extend over the opening of
the excavation and can be formed as a cantilever from the first section. In some
forms of the invention, the modular staircase units are formed either square or
rectangular (usually rectangular), with the second section of the mounting structure
engaging opposite sides of the modular staircase units. For this, the second section
<filename>

                                            4
can include a pair of arms that extend adjacent opposite sides of a modular staircase
unit and the arms can include suitable connectors to connect with the sides of the
modular staircase unit. In some forms of the invention, the arms include recesses
into which projections, extensions or lugs of the sides of the modular staircase unit
are received. For example, the upper end of a modular staircase unit can be a
square or rectangular opening formed by metal beams and the front and rear end
beams can extend beyond the side beams to form projections that are receivable in
the recesses of the second section. Advantageously, the projections of the modular
staircase units can simply sit in the recesses of the second section, with the weight of
the modular staircase units preventing release of the modular staircase units from the
recesses of the second section. Of course, further security can be applied to the
connection between the modular staircase units and the second section as required,
such as by suitable fasteners.
[0014]      The advantage of the above arrangement is that the modular staircase
units can simply be lowered into connection with the second section and this can be
achieved by crane or forklift or other suitable grab and lift mechanism.
[0015]      A further advantage of the present invention is that the new modular
staircase unit that is to be added to an existing modular staircase can be deposited
onto the uppermost modular staircase unit of the modular staircase and connected
thereto with the uppermost modular staircase remaining in connection with the
mounting structure. Thus, there is no loading placed on the new modular staircase
unit that is to be added. The new modular staircase unit can be connected to the
uppermost modular staircase unit of the modular staircase in the manner required and
thereafter, the entire modular staircase, with the new modular staircase unit attached
thereto, can be lifted from the mounting structure and repositioned with the new
modular staircase unit assuming the position of the uppermost modular staircase unit
of the modular staircase. The modular staircase is thus extended in height with no
requirement for a new modular staircase unit to be added to the bottom of the existing
modular staircase. This provides significant advantages to the deployment of
vertically extending modular staircases.
[0016]      The connection between modular staircase units can be by any suitable
arrangement and can include the bolted connection between lugs that extend from a
<filename>

                                             5
pair of vertically adjacent modular staircase units. Thus, the upper end of one
modular staircase unit can include lugs that are positioned adjacent the lugs of the
bottom end of a vertically adjacent modular staircase unit when the pair of vertically
adjacent modular staircase units are positioned for connection to each other and the
connection can be by bolts, chain, pins or other suitable connectors extending though
openings in the lugs for example. This form of connection between vertically adjacent
modular staircase units is simple and secure and facilitates quick and robust
connection between vertically adjacent modular staircase units.
[0017]      For a modular staircase unit of square or rectangular configuration, the
connection between vertically adjacent modular staircase units can be made at each
corner of the upper and bottom ends. Further or alternative connections can be made
between the corners.
[0018]      The stairs of a modular staircase unit can extend in one flight from the
upper end to the bottom end. Suitable landings can be provided at each end of the
flight. Alternatively, the stairs of a modular staircase unit can extend in two flights with
a suitable landing at the junction between the flights. Handrails can be provided if
required.
[0019]      The modular staircase units can be fully enclosed by wire or mesh, or by
solid panels, or a combination of these.
[0020]      The present invention also provides a method of extending an installed
vertically extending modular staircase, the modular staircase including a plurality of
modular staircase units each comprising a cage within which a staircase is confined,
the cage having an upper end and a bottom end and the staircase extending between
the upper and bottom ends, the upper end of one modular staircase unit being
connectible to the bottom end of another modular staircase unit to create a vertically
extending modular staircase whereby the upper and bottom ends of each modular
staircase unit allows passage of personnel so that personnel can move vertically from
one modular staircase unit to the next modular staircase unit via the staircases
confined within the modular staircase units,
            the method including installing a mounting structure to a support structure,
connecting one or more modular staircase units to the mounting structure to form an
<filename>

                                             6
installed vertically extending modular staircase, the one or more modular staircase
units having an uppermost modular staircase unit, extending the installed vertically
extending modular staircase by connecting a further modular staircase unit to the
upper end of the uppermost modular staircase unit to form an extended modular
staircase, disconnecting the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure
and reconnecting the extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by
connection of the further modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.
[0021]         The present invention also provides an installation including a modular
staircase assembly, the installation comprising an excavated opening having
generally vertical, downwardly extending walls,
           the modular staircase assembly comprising a mounting structure that extends
from an upper lip of the excavated opening and that extends inwardly over the
opening,
           the modular staircase assembly further comprising a plurality of modular
staircase units connected together to form a modular staircase, each modular
staircase unit comprising a cage within which a staircase is confined, the cage having
an upper end and a bottom end and the staircase extending between the upper and
bottom ends, the upper end of one modular staircase unit being releasably
connectable to the bottom end of another modular staircase unit to form a vertically
extending modular staircase whereby the upper and bottom ends of each modular
staircase unit allows passage of personne
I so that personnel can move vertically from one modular staircase unit to the next
modular staircase unit via the staircases confined within the modular staircase units,
the modular staircase units each being releasably connected to the mounting
structure,
           and whereby the length of the modular staircase can be extended by firstly
connecting a further modular staircase unit to the uppermost modular staircase unit of
the modular staircase to form an extended modular staircase, and then secondly by
disconnecting the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure and
reconnecting the extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by connection
of the further modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.
<filename>

                                            7
Brief Description of Drawings
[0022]      It will be convenient to hereinafter describe the invention in greater detail
by reference to the accompanying drawings. The detailed description and the
drawings are however merely illustrative of how the invention might be put into effect,
so that the specific form and arrangement of the various features as shown is not to
be understood as limiting on the invention.
[0023]      Figure 1 is a perspective view of a modular staircase according to the
invention as installed within an excavation.
[0024]      Figure 2 is a perspective view of a single modular staircase unit according
to the invention.
[0025]      Figure 3 shows a mounting structure according to the invention applied to
the upper end of an excavation capping.
[0026]      Figure 4 is a perspective rear view of a modular staircase according to the
invention.
[0027]      Figure 5 is a perspective front view of a modular staircase according to the
invention.
[0028]      Figure 6 is a perspective view of a pair of modular staircase units
according to the invention as connected together.
[0029]      Figure 7 is a side view of the arrangement illustrated in Figure 6.
[0030]      Figures 8 and 9 are side and perspective views of connections between
vertically adjacent modular staircase units.
[0031]      Figure 10 is a perspective view of a connector of a modular staircase unit
according to the invention.
Detailed Description
[0032]      Figure 1 is a perspective view that shows a modular staircase 10 according
to the invention as installed within an excavation. The modular staircase 10 includes
four modular staircase units 11 that have been attached to each other and that are
<filename>

                                             8
suspended from a mounting structure 12. The mounting structure 12 has been
connected to the upper section of a capping 13 that has been applied to the upper
edge of the excavation.
[0033]      A fifth modular staircase unit 14 has been attached to the uppermost
staircase unit 11 that is suspended from the mounting structure 12 and the modular
staircase unit 14 is attached in a manner to extend the length and depth of the
modular staircase 10 into the excavation. The modular staircase unit 14 is of the
same form as the modular staircase units 11, but has been given a different reference
number to reflect that it is a staircase unit that is to be connected to an existing group
of staircase units . The modular staircase unit 14 is thus connected to the uppermost
of the modular staircase units 11 and once connected, the entire group of staircase
units 11 and 14 can be lifted from connection to the mounting structure 12 and can be
lowered to connect the modular staircase unit 14 to the mounting structure 12. Thus,
the vertical extent of the modular staircase downwards is increased or lengthened.
[0034]      A more specific discussion of the arrangement of Figure 1 will be made in
relation to the figures that follow.
[0035]      With reference to Figure 2, a modular staircase unit 20 is shown in isolation
in perspective view. The staircase unit 20 is identical to the staircase units 11 and 14
of Figure 1 and comprises a rectangular cage having an upper end 21 and a bottom
end 22. The upper and bottom ends 21 and 22 are not intended to be very specific
locations, but rather, are intended to generally identify a region of the staircase unit 20
which relate generally to top and lower regions of the staircase unit 20.
[0036]      The staircase unit 20 includes a rectangular frame 23 comprising an upper
rectangular frame 24 and a lower rectangular frame 25. Uprights 26 connect the
upper and lower frames 24 and 25. The arrangement thus forms four walls which
comprise a pair of parallel short sidewalls 27 and a pair of parallel long walls 28.
Each of the walls 27 and 28 includes a mesh filling. This allows occupants of the
staircase unit 20 to see out through the walls 27 and 28, but prevents objects and
personnel from falling through the walls 27 and 28.
[0037]      The staircase unit 20 includes an internal staircase 30 which extends from
the upper end 21 to the bottom end 22. The staircase 30 is formed in two flights 31
<filename>

                                             9
and 32 with a landing 33 provided between the flights 31 and 32. A bottom landing 34
is also provided and this extends fully across the short wall 27 in order to provide
access to a similar staircase 30 of a vertically adjacent staircase unit 20 when two
staircase units 20 are connected vertically together. Handrails 35 are also provided.
[0038]      Figure 3 shows a mounting structure 38 according to the present invention
as applied to a capping 13 of an excavation. The mounting structure includes a first
section 39 and a second section 40. Figures 4 and 5 also show the mounting
structure 38, although in those figures the mounting structure 38 is shown in
connection with a plurality of modular staircase units 20. In Figures 4 and 5, it can be
seen that the first section 39 is fixed to the capping 13 by bolts 41 bolted into the
upper surface of the capping 13 and bolts 42 which bolt into a side surface 43 of the
capping 13.
[0039]      The mounting structure 38 includes a gate 44 which includes a pair of gate
doors 45 that can be locked in the shut form of the gate 44 as illustrated in Figures 3
and 4, or that can be swung open around side posts 46 by lifting the locking latch 47
to allow access to within a modular staircase unit 20.
[0040]      The second section 40 of the mounting structure 38 includes a pair of arms
48 that extend over the excavation and which, as shown in Figures 4 and 5, extend
along the side walls 27 of a modular staircase unit 20. The arms are braced by
bracing members 49 that bear against a side surface 50 of the capping 13 which can
be bolted thereto. The arms 48 further include four U-shaped connectors 51 that form
recesses for receipt of projections that are formed on the modular staircase units.
[0041]      With reference to Figures 6 and 7, the connection between a pair of
modular staircase units 20 is shown. These figures illustrate that personnel who enter
the upper staircase unit 20 through the upper end 21 of that unit 20, can walk down
the staircase 30 of the upper staircase unit 20 and can enter the lower staircase unit
20 and walk down the staircase 30 of that unit. It will be evident, in particular as
shown in Figure 1, that any number of staircase units 20 can be connected together in
the manner shown in Figures 6 and 7.
[0042]      Figures 8 to 10 show one form of connection that can be made between
vertically adjacent staircase units 20. In those figures, a bottom connector 55 extends
<filename>

                                             10
from the lower frame 25 of an upper staircase unit 20 and includes an opening 56.
While not visible in Figure 8, a second and identical bottom connector 55 extends
parallel to the connector 55 shown in Figure 8 to form a pair of side by side
connectors, with aligned openings 56. The arrangement of connectors 55 is similar to
that shown in Figure 10, which represents an upper connector 57 that is connected to
the upper frame 24 of the lower staircase unit 20 and which includes a pair of
connector plates 58 that are located side by side and that each include an opening
59. The arrangement, as shown in Figure 8, is that the bottom and upper connectors
55 and 57 are positioned in interlocking or interweaving arrangement, so that the
openings 56 and 59 align for receipt of a bolt or pin or the like. This arrangement is
repeated at each of the corners of the upper and lower frames 24 and 25, so that
there is bolt or pin connection at each of the corners between vertically adjacent
staircase units. This represents a very simple but robust form of connection between
vertically adjacent staircase units. Moreover, as can be seen in Figures 4 and 5, a
staircase unit 20 at the level of the capping 13 can be connected to an uppermost
staircase unit 20 of the existing modular staircase 10 and connected thereto
whereafter, the entire modular staircase can be lifted from the mounting structure 38
and lowered to position the new staircase unit 20 into engagement with the mounting
structure 38, thus extending the entire modular staircase deeper into the excavation.
[0043]       Returning to Figures 3 to 5, the second section 40 of the mounting
structure 38 has been described earlier herein as including four connectors 51 which
are each U-shaped. With reference to Figures 8 to 10, it can be seen that the upper
frame 24 includes a lateral extension 60 that extends in the lengthwise axis of the
long walls 28 and which forms a projection for receipt within the recess of the
connectors 51. Thus, the extensions 60 of the upper frames 24 can simply be
lowered into the recesses of the connectors 51 for the modular staircase units to be
securely connected to the mounting structure 38. The plurality of staircase units 20
can simply hang from the mounting structure 38 by receipt of the lateral extensions 60
within the recesses of the connectors 51. Moreover, once a further staircase unit 20
has been added to the uppermost staircase unit 20 of an existing modular staircase
(as seen in Figures 4 and 5), the new staircase unit 20 can be lifted by connection to
a crane for example and the staircase units can be swung outwardly away from the
mounting structure 38 to lower the stair case units so that the new and uppermost
<filename>

                                               11
staircase unit can be connected to the mounting structure 38. This is a simple and
effective manner of lengthening the modular staircase 10 and involves activities at the
surface of the excavation, rather than requiring connection of a further module to the
bottom end of an existing staircase assembly.
[0044]      It follows that the modular staircase 10 as illustrated in Figure 1 can be
lengthened multiple times by the addition of upper modular staircase units 14 to
existing staircase units 11. The number of staircase units that are used to lengthen
the depth of the modular staircase 10 is simply dependent on the depth of the
excavation and the strength of the mounting structure 38 in terms of the suspended
weight that it can carry.
[0045]      It is to be noted that for stability purposes, stabilising struts 61 as shown in
Figure 1 can be applied to extend from the side wall 62 of the excavation. These can
either be in bolted connection with the side wall 62, or simply in resting connection
(which is preferred). These stabilising struts can be applied as required along the
length of the modular staircase 10.
[0046]      Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
"comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
[0047]      The invention described herein is susceptible to variations, modifications
and/or additions other than those specifically described and it is to be understood that
the invention includes all such variations, modifications and/or additions which fall
within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
<filename>

                                              12
The claims defining the invention are as follows
1.         A modular staircase assembly, including a plurality of modular staircase units
connected together to form a modular staircase, each modular staircase unit
comprising a cage within which a staircase is confined, the cage having an upper end
and a bottom end and the staircase extending between the upper and bottom ends,
the upper end of one modular staircase unit being releasably connectable to the
bottom end of another modular staircase unit to form a vertically extending modular
staircase whereby the upper and bottom ends of each modular staircase unit allows
passage of personnel so that personnel can move vertically from one modular
staircase unit to the next modular staircase unit via the staircases confined within the
modular staircase units,
           the modular staircase units also each being releasably connected to a
mounting structure that extends from a support structure, whereby the uppermost
modular staircase unit of the modular staircase is connected to the mounting
structure,
           and whereby the length of the modular staircase can be extended by firstly
connecting a further modular staircase unit to the uppermost modular staircase unit of
the modular staircase to form an extended modular staircase, and then secondly by
disconnecting the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure and
reconnecting the extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by connection
of the further modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.
2.         A modular staircase assembly according to claim 1, the staircase of each
modular staircase unit extending from a platform at each of the upper and bottom
ends.
3.         A method of extending an installed vertically extending modular staircase, the
modular staircase including a plurality of modular staircase units each comprising a
cage within which a staircase is confined, the cage having an upper end and a bottom
end and the staircase extending between the upper and bottom ends, the upper end
of one modular staircase unit being connectible to the bottom end of another modular
staircase unit to create a vertically extending modular staircase whereby the upper
and bottom ends of each modular staircase unit allows passage of personnel so that
<filename>

                                              13
personnel can move vertically from one modular staircase unit to the next modular
staircase unit via the staircases confined within the modular staircase units,
           the method including installing a mounting structure to a support structure,
connecting one or more modular staircase units to the mounting structure to form an
installed vertically extending modular staircase, the one or more modular staircase
units having an uppermost modular staircase unit, extending the installed vertically
extending modular staircase by connecting a further modular staircase unit to the
upper end of the uppermost modular staircase unit to form an extended modular
staircase, disconnecting the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure
and reconnecting the extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by
connection of the further modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.
4.         The method of claim 3, whereby the extended modular staircase is supported
during disconnection from the mounting structure by crane and the extended modular
staircase is lowered by crane to the height at which the further modular staircase unit
can be connected to the mounting structure.
5.         An installation including a modular staircase assembly, the installation
comprising an excavated opening having generally vertical, downwardly extending
walls,
           the modular staircase assembly comprising a mounting structure that extends
from an upper lip of the excavated opening and that extends inwardly over the
opening,
           the modular staircase assembly further comprising a plurality of modular
staircase units connected together to form a modular staircase, each modular
staircase unit comprising a cage within which a staircase is confined, the cage having
an upper end and a bottom end and the staircase extending between the upper and
bottom ends, the upper end of one modular staircase unit being releasably
connectable to the bottom end of another modular staircase unit to form a vertically
extending modular staircase whereby the upper and bottom ends of each modular
staircase unit allows passage of personnel so that personnel can move vertically from
one modular staircase unit to the next modular staircase unit via the staircases
confined within the modular staircase units, the modular staircase units each being
releasably connected to the mounting structure,
<filename>

                                            14
           and whereby the length of the modular staircase can be extended by firstly
connecting a further modular staircase unit to the uppermost modular staircase unit of
the modular staircase to form an extended modular staircase, and then secondly by
disconnecting the extended modular staircase from the mounting structure and
reconnecting the extended modular staircase to the mounting structure by connection
of the further modular staircase unit to the mounting structure.
<filename>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
