ABSTRACT
Method and a system for managing preparation and delivery of goods. The method
may include: receiving a plurality of orders via the orders receiving unit, each order
may include one or more requested goods and a point of delivery. Each of the
requested goods may require at least one preparation stage; calculating estimated
traveling time     from a preparation facility to at least one points of delivery;
determining optional sets of orders from the plurality of orders, wherein each of said
set of orders comprises at least one order; selecting a first set of orders from the
optional sets of orders based at least on the calculated traveling time and the
estimated traveling time between the points of delivery; determining arrival time at
the preparation facility, of each courier from a plurality of available couriers, the
arrival time is determined based on information received from the plurality of mobile
devices; selecting a first courier from the plurality of available couriers based on the
determined arrival time at the preparation facility; assigning the first set to the first
courier, wherein selecting of the first set of orders, selecting the first courier and
assigning the first set to the first courier minimize an average time for a delivery of
the first set of orders; receiving historical data related to previous orders; and
determining a timing for the at least one preparation stage of the requested good in
the first set of orders according to the selection of the first set, the first courier and
the historical data.

                                          5/7
    T- 2311021
          17To                                                         ay
                                                                      Number         Order
       Order Number - 50                  Order Number - 51           of Items  /    Number
       Delivery - Courier A              Delivery - Courier B
Pan Pizza S                        Pan Pizza S
Pan Pizza L                        e Mushrooms S
* Feta Cheese L                    0 Pineapple S
C1 Mushrooms L                     S Fried Onions S
C Onions L
" Mozzarella Cheese L                                                       Preparations
* Eggplant L                                                        orders             Items
Pan Pizza XL                 57                              01:49
* Mushrooms XL              -02: 1                                  Holding      0
                                      FIG. 4A
                                                                      Number 1 Order
       Order Number - 55                  Order Number - 59           of Items I Number
       Delivery -Courier C               Delivery - Courier A                  1/56
                    e              &                   B6/57
Pan Pizza S                        Pan Pizza S
Pan Pizza L                        Pan Pizza XL
* Feta Cheese L                    9 Mushrooms XL
CPMushrooms L                      0 Onions XL
C Onions L                         C Feta Cheese XL
* Mozzarella Cheese L              * Roasted Pepper XL                      Preparations
"  Eggplant L                      * Diced Tomato XL                Orders              items
                                   PPzA
                                      'rs n '9'  XL
 SMushroms XL            14:     o cl Mozzarella Cheese XL      50Hoding         2
                                      FIG. 4B

                                             1
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MANAGING PREPARATION AND
DELIVERY OF GOODS
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]         One of the aspects in modern life consumerism is the rapid
development of businesses that supply and deliver goods to customers. Such
businesses often also prepare, manufacture and/or pack the good upon receiving
an order from the customer. Typical businesses of such nature are: pizza or other
fast food providers, flower shops or the like, that both prepare the order and
deliver the order to the customer. The main aim of such businesses is to provide
the customer with a freshly prepared good as soon as possible. The customer
ordering the goods would like to reactive his order (e.g. his pizza) as close as
possible after the preparation of the goods has been completed. For example,
the costumer would like to receive his pizza as soon as possible after the pizza
gets out of the oven, the eggrolls as close a possible to being fried and the
flowers as fresh as possible.
[0002]         Optimizing the preparation time and timing of such orders (e.g., a
pizza, Chinese food, a bouquet of flowers, etc.) can be very complicated and
usually done according to the chronological order of the received orders (FIFO
first in first out). However, many other parameters and factors affect the delivery
time from receiving the order to the delivery of the goods to the customer. Some
examples for such parameters are: an availability of a courier (e.g., is there an
available courier or how far away is the next courier from the preparation facility
or shop), the traffic on the way to and from the shop, the weather, how
complicated is the order (e.g., how many ingredients are required in order to
prepare the goods included in the order, how many preparation steps) or the like
These parameters also affect the freshness level in which the goods are
delivered to the customer. If an order was received and completely prepared
before a courier can deliver the order to the customer, the quality of the delivered
good may derogate as a function of time. For example, a pizza or noodle soup
can cool down, an eggroll can lose its crust and a bouquet of flowers can lose its
freshness.

                                              2
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       Embodiments of the invention may be related to a method and a
system for managing preparation and delivery of goods. The goods may be
prepared in a preparation facility, for example, a pizzeria, a Chinese restaurant or
any other fast food or food provider. The goods may be delivered to a costumer
by a courier. A system according to some embodiments of the invention may
include: an order receiving unit; a communication unit in communication with a
plurality of mobile devices each associated with a courier and a processor for
executing instructions. The system may further include a preparation timing unit
comprising an output device to provide preparation timing indications for each
order received in an order receiving unit and a memory stored thereon the
instructions to be executed by the processor. In some embodiments the
instructions may comprise the following method operations: receiving a plurality of
orders via the orders receiving unit, each order comprising one or more requested
goods and a point of delivery, wherein each of the requested goods requires at
least one preparation stage; calculating estimated traveling time from a
preparation facility to at least one points of delivery of at least one of the plurality
of orders; determining optional sets of orders from the plurality of orders, wherein
each of said set of orders comprises at least one order; selecting a first set of
orders from the optional sets of orders based at least on the calculated traveling
time and the estimated traveling time between the points of delivery; determining
arrival time at the preparation facility, of each courier from a plurality of available
couriers, the arrival time is determined based on information received from the
plurality of mobile devices; selecting a first courier from the plurality of available
couriers based on the determined arrival time at the preparation facility; assigning
the first set to the first courier, wherein selecting of the first set of orders, selecting
the first courier and assigning the first set to the first courier minimize an average
time for a delivery of the first set of orders; receiving historical data related to
previous orders from a database and determining a timing for the at least one
preparation stage of the requested good in the first set of orders according to the
selection of the first set, the first courier and the historical data.

                                            3
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0004]      The subject matter regarded as the invention is particularly pointed out
and distinctly claimed in the concluding portion of the specification. The invention,
however, both as to organization and method of operation, together with objects,
features, and advantages thereof, may best be understood by reference to the
following detailed description when read with the accompanying drawings in
which:
[0005]      Fig. 1 is a high level block diagram of an exemplary system for
managing preparation and delivery of goods according to some embodiments of
the invention;
[0006]      Fig. 2 is a high level block diagram of an exemplary mobile device
according to some embodiments of the invention;
[0007]      Figs. 3A is a flowchart of a method of managing preparation and
delivery of goods in according to some embodiments of the invention;
[0008]      Fig. 3B is a flowchart of a method of managing preparation and
delivery of goods during an unexpected event according to some embodiments of
the invention;
[0009]      Figs. 4A and 4B are exemplary screenshots of a presentation unit in a
preparation facility according to some embodiments of the invention;
[0010]      Figs. 5A and 5B are exemplary screenshots presenting to a user of
the system according to embodiments of the present invention, a status of the
orders and the couriers; and
[0011]      Fig. 6 is an exemplary screenshot of a display of a mobile device
associated with couriers according to some embodiments of the invention.

                                             4
[0012]      It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration,
elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For
example, the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to
other elements for clarity. Further, where considered appropriate, reference
numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or
analogous elements.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
[0013]      In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set
forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it
will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be
practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods,
procedures, and components have not been described in detail so as not to
obscure the present invention.
[0014]      Aspects of the invention may be related to a system and method of
managing preparation and delivery of goods in a preparation facility. The goods
may be delivered by any number of couriers. A goods provider that may use the
system and method of the invention may be able to deliver to its customers
freshly prepared goods at relatively short delivery time. The goods provider may
operate one or more preparation facilities (e.g., a pizzeria and Italian restaurant)
and may include in the order goods prepared in the one or more of the
preparation facilities. The one or more preparation facilities may be located at a
predetermined distance (e.g., nearby) from each other. The delivery time of the
order may include the total time from receiving the order from the client to
delivering the order to the client. Such a method may include optimization of the
timing of preparing the goods not just according to the chronological order of
receiving the orders, but also according to other parameters as well, for example,
is there an available courier to deliver the order, how far away is the closest
courier, are there any other orders that could be delivered to a nearby address,
how many goods are included in the order, how are the weather conditions and
how is the traffic state to and from the provider's preparation facility or the like.

                                            5
[0015]      A system according to embodiments of the invention may include two
major subsystems: a stationary system associated with the preparation facility
and a mobile device carried by each courier. The stationary system may include
an order receiving unit for receiving the orders. The orders may be received from
a website of the provider, during a phone conversation with a representative of
the provider, using an application on a mobile device or the like. The system may
manage the preparation of take-away orders and orders dine within the
preparation facility. All the received orders may be collected and stored in the
order receiving unit.
[0016]      The stationary system may further include one or more flow instruction
timing units for presenting a time table and instructions for preparing each stage
in the preparation of each good. The presentation unit may be placed in a kitchen
preparing food, in a flower shop or the like. The presentation unit may include, for
example, a screen, a printer for printing the stages, speakers that verbally
announce the coming stage in the preparation process or a combination thereof.
The presentation unit may present to one or more workers preparing the goods
timings for the different preparation stages for each good. For example, when
backing a pizza, the instructions may include: timing for beating flat pizza dough,
timing for putting toppings, timing for placing the pizza in the oven and timing for
packing the pizza and batching the pizza with the rest of the ordered goods (e.g.
a soft drink, an appetizer and the liked). It should be appreciated that the above
listed stages are exemplary and some or the stages may not be required or may
be combined with other stages.
[0017]      The system may optimize the timing of each stage such that the baked
pizza may come out of the oven and packed as close as possible to the departure
of the courier delivering the pizza.
[0018]      The stationary system may further include a processing unit to control
and optimize the preparation duration and timing of preparing the received orders.
The processing unit may include a processor and a memory and may
communicate and control all the other components of the system, both in the

                                            6
stationary system and in the mobile devices. The mobile device may be for
example, a smartphone, a tablet, a lap-top computer, a localization system (e.g.,
Global Positioning System -GPS) attached to the courier's vehicle or the like. The
mobile devices may include a localization system that may indicate to the
processor the location of the courier carrying the mobile device.
[0019]      Reference is made to Fig. 1 that is a high level block diagram of an
exemplary system 100 for managing preparation of goods in a preparation facility
according to some embodiments of the invention. System 100 (e.g., a stationery
system) may include a processing unit 110, one or more flow instruction timing
units 20, one or more orders receiving unit 130 and communication unit 140 to
communicate with two or more mobile devices 200.
[0020]      Processing unit 110 may include a processor 112 that may be, for
example, a central processing unit (CPU), a chip or any suitable computing or
computational device, an operating system 114 and a memory 116. System 100
may be included in a desktop computer, laptop commuter, a tablet, a mainframe
computer or the like. Processor 112 or other processors such as processor 230
(in Fig. 2) may be configured to carry out methods according to embodiments of
the present invention by for example executing instructions stored in a memory
such as memory 116.
[0021]      Operating system 114 may be or may include any code segment
designed and/or configured to perform tasks involving coordination, scheduling,
arbitration, supervising, controlling or otherwise managing operation of
processing device 110, for example, scheduling execution of programs. Operating
system 114 may be a commercial operating system. Memory 116 may be or may
include, for example, a Random Access Memory (RAM), a read only memory
(ROM), a Dynamic RAM (DRAM), a Synchronous DRAM (SD-RAM), a double
data rate (DDR) memory chip, a Flash memory, a volatile memory, a non-volatile
memory, a cache memory, a buffer, a short term memory unit, a long term
memory unit, or other suitable memory units or storage units. Memory 116 may
be or may include a plurality of, possibly different memory units.

                                            7
[0022]       Memory 116 may store any executable code, e.g., an application, a
program, a process, task or script. The executable code may include codes (e.g.,
operations) for controlling and managing preparation and delivery of goods or any
other codes or instruction for executing methods according to embodiments of the
present invention. The executable code may be executed by processor 112
possibly under control of operating system 114. In some embodiments,
processing unit 110 may include or may be in communication with a storage unit
(not illustrated). The storage unit may be or may include, for example, a hard disk
drive, a floppy disk drive, a Compact Disk (CD) drive, a CD-Recordable (CD-R)
drive, a universal serial bus (USB) device or other suitable removable and/or fixed
storage unit. Content may be stored in the storage unit and may be loaded from
the storage unit into memory 116 where it may be processed by processor 112.
[0023]       Flow instruction timing unit 120 may include any device, system or
element comprising an output device to provide preparation timing indications and
instructions for each good included in the order received in order receiving unit
130. In some embodiments, system 100 may include more than one preparation
timing units, for example, one unit may be located in a kitchen and one in the
office of a shift manager. For example, one or more preparation timing units
located in the kitchen may present to the cooks preparation instructions that may
include the timing (e.g. when to start each stage of the preparation) for each
stage in the preparation process of each order. In some embodiments, the
instructions may further include: a list of goods included in the order, a list of
orders, ingredients needed in each stage, a preparation unit (e.g., an oven, a
fryer, etc.) needed for the stage, or the like. Flow instruction timing unit 120 may
include any type of screen or display and/or any audio or video display. For
example, one or more common screens may be placed (e.g., on one or more
walls) in a kitchen of a Chinese restaurant, for presenting the preparation
instructions to the cook(s) preparing the orders, additionally or alternatively each
cook may have his own screen (e.g., a tablet) and may be able to send back to
processor 112 feedback regarding the preparation progress (e.g. pre-baking
preparation completed, the pizza is ready for baking). In yet another example, a
computerized audio unit may use speakers to verbally present the preparation

                                            8
instructions to bakers backing pizzas. A set of instructions may be pre-recorded
by a user and stored (e.g., in a storage unit) to be used by the computerized
audio unit. Exemplary screens included in a presentation unit according to
embodiments of the invention are shown in Figs 4A and 4B and discussed below.
[0024]      In some embodiments, flow instruction timing unit 120 may further
display other timing indications such as timing indication(s) related to the couriers,
the assignment of orders into sets of orders and further assignment of each set to
a courier or the like. Processor 112 may be configured to display to a user (e.g.,
shift manager, preparation facility manager, the courier, etc.) on a screen
included in unit 120 the status of the orders and couriers. For example, Processor
112 may display on a map (e.g., in real time) the location of each courier with
respect to the preparation facility and the preferred route. Processor 112 may
further display a status of each courier, for example, what is the expected arrival
time of the courier, what order(s) the courier is delivering, is the courier on his
way from or to the facility and the like. In some embodiments, processor 112 may
be configured to present to the user the status of at least some of the orders. For
example, the processor may present the current stage of preparation of each
order, when the order is expected to be ready for delivery, which orders were
grouped together into a single set, which courier is assign to the set, an expected
arrival time of that courier, recommendations related to preparation facility
resources (e.g., bring another courier, power another oven etc.) or the like.
Exemplary screens that are included in unit 120 are shown in Figs. 5A and 5B
and discussed below.
[0025]      Order receiving unit 130 may include a screen 132, an input/output
device 134 and an audio device 136. An order may be received in order receiving
unit from a telephone conversation received by a representative of the goods
provider, a website operated by the goods provider or otherwise associated with
the goods provider, a fax sent by the costumer, an application running on a
smartphone and operated by the goods provider, or the like. Screen 132 may
include a monitor, a display, a CRT, or the like. Input/output device 134 may
include a keyboard, a mouse, a touch screen or a pad, a wired or wireless

                                           9
network interface card (NIC), a modem, printer or facsimile machine, a universal
serial bus (USB) device or external hard drive or the like. Audio device 136 may
include: a microphone, a telephone receiver, one or more speakers, earphones
and/or any other suitable audio devices.
[0026]     Communication unit 140 may include any wireless communication for
communicating with two or more mobile devices 200 (in Fig. 2). Each of mobile
devices 200 may be associated with one courier. Communication unit 140 may
include wireless network interface card (NIC), a wireless antenna, a transceiver or
any other device that may be required for establishing wireless communication.
Communication unit 140 may communicate using satellite communication, Wi-Fi
communication, Bluetooth communication, cell-phone communication or the like.
[0027]     According to some embodiments of the present invention, system 100
may further comprise one or more proximity sensors 150 such as an RFID unit or
Bluetooth, or any other receiver located in the preparation facility for identifying
when a courier is in the preparation facility and proximate to the proximity
sensors. It should be appreciated that the couriers may carry a chip, a transmitter
or any other element adapted to communicate with proximity sensor(s) 150, so
that system 100 may identify which courier is in the preparation facility even when
no signals are received from a localization system (220 in Fig. 2) such as GPS,
and/or no cellular connection is available. For example, an RFID unit may be
included in a courier's identification badge (e.g., a card), such that when the
courier enters the Chinese restaurant, he places the identification badge in
proximity to an RFID sensor and system 100 is notified that this particular courier
just entered the restaurant.
[0028]      Reference is made to Fig. 2 that is a high level block diagram of an
exemplary mobile device according to some embodiments of the invention. A
mobile device 200 may include a screen 210, a localization system 220 and a
processor 230. Mobile device 200 may be a smartphone, a tablet, a laptop
computer or the like. Screen 210 may be any display for displaying instructions to
the courier. The instructions may comprise a list of orders to be delivered, the

                                          10
destination of each order, the route (e.g., a map) to each destination and the like.
An exemplary screen 220 is shown in Fig. 6 and discussed below.
[0029]      Localization system 220 may be configured to determine the location
of the courier in real time, for example, using Global Positioning System (GPS).
Processor 230 may include a chip or any suitable computing or computational
mobile device. Mobile device 200 may further include a communication module
240 for communicating with system 100. Processor 230 may be configured to
send system 100 the location of the courier received from localization system
220, either continuously or every predefined time interval, such as every 15
seconds, every 30 seconds or the like. According to some embodiments, the time
intervals may change as a function of the courier's velocity, such as, for example,
every 1 minute when the courier is traveling in less than 10 Miles per Hour (mph),
every 30 seconds when the courier is traveling in a speed ranging from 11 mph to
30mph, every 15 seconds when the courier is traveling in a higher velocity and
every 2 minute when the courier is immobile. It should be appreciated that other
or additional ranges may be defined.
[0030]      Processor 230 may further be configured to display on screen 210
instructions received from system 100.
[0031]      In some embodiments, mobile device 200 may include only localization
system 220 comprising a transmitter. Localization system 220 may be configured
to transmit to communication unit 140 and/or proximity sensor 150 of system 100,
information related to the location of the courier carrying device 200.
[0032]      Embodiments of the invention may include an article such as a
computer or processor non-transitory readable medium or a computer or
processor non-transitory storage medium, such as for example a memory, a disk
drive, or a USB flash memory, encoding, including or storing instructions, e.g.,
computer-executable instructions, which, when executed by a processor or
controller, carry out methods disclosed herein.

                                             11
[0033]       The storage medium may include, but is not limited to, any type of disk
including floppy disks, optical disks, compact disk read-only memories (CD
ROMs), rewritable compact disk (CD-RWs), and magneto-optical disks,
semiconductor devices such as read-only memories (ROMs), random access
memories (RAMs), such as a dynamic RAM (DRAM), erasable programmable
read-only memories (EPROMs), flash memories, electrically erasable
programmable read-only memories (EEPROMs), magnetic or optical cards, or
any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, including
programmable storage unit.
[0034]       A system according to embodiments of the invention may include
components such as, but not limited to, a plurality of central processing units
(CPU) or any other suitable multi-purpose or specific processors or controllers, a
plurality of input units, a plurality of output units, a plurality of memory units, and a
plurality of storage units. A system may additionally include other suitable
hardware components and/or software components. In some embodiments, a
system may include or may be, for example, a personal computer, a desktop
computer, a mobile computer, a laptop computer, a notebook computer, a
terminal, a workstation, a server computer, a tablet computer, a network device,
or any other suitable computing device. Unless explicitly stated, the method
embodiments described herein are not constrained to a particular order or
sequence. Additionally, some of the described method embodiments or elements
thereof can occur or be performed at the same point in time.
[0035]       Reference is made to Fig. 3A that includes a flowchart of a method of
managing preparation and delivery of goods. The method of Fig. 3 may be
executed by a processor (e.g., processor 112 of processing unit 110) according to
instructions stored in a memory (e.g., memory 116) or by any other suitable
system. In box 310, the method may include, according to some embodiments,
receiving a plurality of orders, each order comprising one or more requested
goods and a point of delivery (e.g. a destination to which the order should be
delivered), wherein each of the requested goods requires at least one preparation
stage. As used herein, the term "goods" presents any item that is ordered by a

                                            12
customer and can be supplied by the goods provider, for example, goods may
include: food items (including beverages), flowers, or the like. The orders may be
received from an order receiving unit (e.g., unit 130), for example, via a website of
the provider, an application running on a mobile device and/or via a telephone
conversation with a representative of the provider.
[0036]      A point of delivery according to some embodiments of the invention
may include: an address to which the order should be delivered, a geographical
location that does not have a specific address (e.g., a bench on the north corner
of a park) or geographical coordinates (e.g., received from a GPS system).
[0037]      The order may include one or more goods, for example, an order from
a pizzeria may include one pizza, or two pizzas and a bottle of soft drink, a pizza
and garlic bread or just one bottle of soft drink. In yet another example, an order
from a Chinese restaurant may include 2 wanton soups, 3 eggrolls and a soft
drink, fried rise and noodles, or the like. In some embodiments, the plurality of
orders may include all the orders still in the preparation facility (e.g. the orders
that had not yet left the facility with a courier). Such orders may include prepared
orders (e.g., pizzas baked and packed, packed soft drinks, etc.), orders during the
preparation process (e.g., eggrolls ready for frying, pizza ready for baking, goods
ready for packing, etc.) and received orders not yet in preparation process.
[0038]      Each good included in the order may require at least one preparation
stage to be ready to be delivered to the customer. The preparation stages may
include at least packing the goods. In some embodiments, the preparation stages
may include, manual stages (e.g., kneading flat a pizza dough, chopping
vegetables, mixing sauces, etc.), mechanized (e.g., automatic or semi-automatic)
stages (e.g., baking the pizza in the oven, frying eggrolls in a fryer or the like),a
packing stage (packing the fried rise in a box, inserting a bottle of soft drink into a
paper bag, etc.) and a batching stage (e.g., grouping together all goods within
one set of orders to be ready to be picked up by the same courier).

                                            13
[0039]      In some embodiments, the method may include receiving a single
order, the order may include one or more goods. Upon receiving a single order,
for example, at the beginning of a shift, at the opening hour of the pizzeria, or the
like, the order may be prepared and delivered, even if no additional orders were
received. If a second order is received during the preparation stage of the first
order the method may include applying operations 320-390 to optimize the
preparation and delivery process of the first and second orders.
[0040]      In box 320, the method may include calculating estimated traveling
time from a preparation facility to at least one point of delivery of at least one
orders of the plurality of orders. In some embodiments, the method may include
calculating estimated traveling time from a preparation facility to at least two
points of delivery of at least two orders of the plurality of orders. The preparation
facility may include a place having the required equipment and manpower for
preparing the plurality of orders. For example, the preparation facility may be a
Chinese restaurant, an Italian restaurant, a pizza bakery, a burgers shop, a
flowers shop or a combination of two or more preparation facilities. Calculating
estimated traveling time from the preparation facility to a point of delivery may
include calculating the estimated time that takes a courier to travel from the
preparation facility to the point of delivery. The estimated time may be calculated,
based on several known parameters. For example, such parameters may
comprise, the distance (traveling distance) between the preparation facility to the
point of delivery, the vehicle used by the courier (e.g., a motorbike, bicycle, car,
etc.), an expected traffic at a given hour, the weather, an average traveling time
from the preparation facility to the delivery points or nearby points collected and
stored in the system from previous travels, or the like. In some embodiments,
some of the known parameters may be received from a database associated with
the processor (e.g., processor 112), for example, the traveling distance, the
average traveling time, or the like. Some known parameters may be received in
real time from outer sources, for example, via the internet. For Example, traffic
information, weather conditions or the like may be received from, a traffic control
center and meteorological service center.

                                            14
[0041]       According to some embodiments, Processor 112 may calculate
estimated traveling time from the preparation facility to at least two points of
delivery of the plurality of orders. The processor may calculate the time to a
number of delivery points from the plurality of delivery points, for example,
delivery points included in a single area of delivery (e.g., delivery points within a
predetermined distance from each other, all delivery points included in a single
zone in a city, all delivery points included in a particular village or the like).
[0042]       In box 330, the method may include estimating at least a traveling time
between the at least two points of delivery. Processor 112 may estimate a time
that will take a courier to travel from one point of delivery to another. The
processor may estimate the time based on, the traveling distance, the vehicle
used by the courier (e.g., a motorbike, bicycle, car, etc.), an expected traffic at a
given hour, the weather, or the like. The processor may estimate the time
between each two points of the delivery for only a number of the plurality of
orders. For example, the processor may estimate the time between two points of
delivery included in a single area of delivery (e.g., all delivery points within a
predetermined distance from each other, all delivery points included in a single
zone in a city, all delivery points included in a particular village or the like).
[0043]       In box 340, the method may include determining optional sets of orders
from the plurality of orders, wherein each of said optional sets of orders
comprises at least one order. Processor 112, may group together two or more
sets of orders, or may include only one order in a set. The processor may select
to include an order in more than one optional set. For example, a first order: may
be included in a first optional set that includes only the first order, may be
included in a second optional set that includes the first order and a second order
or may be included in a third optional set that includes the first and second orders
and a third order. Processor 112 may determine optional sets of orders using only
a number of orders from the plurality of orders, for example, using orders having
nearby delivery points.

                                             15
[0044]       In box 350, the method may include selecting a first set of orders from
the optional sets of orders based at least on the calculated traveling time and the
estimated traveling time between the points of delivery. Processor 112 may select
a first set of orders such that the traveling time from the preparation facility to at
least one delivery point is minimal, or total set traveling time is minimal. According
to other embodiments, processor 112, may select the first set such that the total
traveling time from the facility to the first point of delivery and the traveling time
from the first point to the second point of delivery is minimal, or the like.
[0045]       In some embodiments, the method may include determining a priority
level of each order. For example, the priority level may be determined based on
the chronological order in which the orders have been received (e.g., early orders
or orders that have to be delivered at a short time may receive higher priority). In
yet another example, orders received from preferred customers (e.g., VIP
customers, first time customers, etc.), or orders previous not delivered in time to a
same customer may receive higher priority. In some embodiments, processor 112
may determine the optional sets of orders based on the priority level of each
order in the set, and/or may further select the first set of orders from the optional
sets of orders based on the priority level.
[0046]       In some embodiments, the method may include determining
preparation related parameters. Preparation related parameters may include:
preparation duration of each preparation stage of the good (e.g., 5 minutes to
make a pizza), a number of stages in a preparation of a good (e.g., one stage if
only packing is required, three stages for preparing a pizza (preparing the pizza
for baking, baking and packing) or the like), the type of preparation stage, wherein
the type of preparation stage includes at least one of: a manual preparation
stage, an automatic preparation stage and a packaging stage, or the like.
[0047]       In some embodiments, processor 112 may be configured to select the
first set of orders from the optional sets of orders based on the preparation
related parameters. For example, the processor may select to group together
orders that may have the same preparation duration.

                                            16
[0048]      In some embodiments, the method may include determining delivery
related parameters. The delivery related parameters may include, for example,
maximal allowed traveling time to the point of delivery, maximal allowed traveling
time between two points of delivery, maximal allowed traveling time between all
the delivery points in the set of orders, a predefined maximal time for delivery of
the order and a weather condition. In some embodiments, processor 112 may
select the first set of orders from the optional sets of orders based on the delivery
related parameters. For example, processor 112 may select a first set that has a
traveling time to the point of delivery of less than 10 minutes and has traveling
time between two points of delivery of less than 5 minutes. In some
embodiments, the processor may determine or receive different maximal allowed
traveling time between two points of delivery, for example, between a first and
second orders in a set and the second and third order in the set. For example, the
processor may combine together two orders having, for example, maximum of 7
minute of traveling time, but may add to the set a third order only if the order is
located less than 3 minutes of traveling time from the second order.
[0049]      In some embodiments, the method may include selecting a second set
of orders from the optional sets of orders based at least on the calculated
traveling time and the estimated traveling time between the points of delivery.
Selecting the second set may be according to the same principles and may be
based on the same parameters as selecting the first set. For example, selecting
the second set may be based on at least one of: a priority level, preparation
related parameters and traveling related parameters.
[0050]      In some embodiments, the method may include selecting N sets of
orders from the optional sets of orders based at least on the calculated traveling
time and the estimated traveling time between the points of delivery. Selecting the
N sets of orders may be according to the same principles and may be based on
the same parameters as selecting the first and second sets of orders. For
example, selecting the N sets may be based on at least one of: a priority level,
preparation related parameters and traveling related parameters.

                                             17
[0051]      In some embodiments, the method may include determining for each
optional set of orders that includes two or more orders a delivery delay
parameter. The delivery delay parameter may include a time (or a parameter
indicative of the time) in which a delivery of a first order in the set is going to be
delayed due to the addition of a second order in the optional set in comparison to
a delivery of a set including the first order alone. For example, a delivery delay
parameter may include the extra time that the first order needs to wait after
packing for the second order to be fully prepared (e.g., baked and packed) for
delivery. In some embodiments, selecting the first set of orders may be based on
the delivery delay parameter. For example, selecting the first set may include
selecting a set with a delivery delay parameter lower than a predetermined
threshold value. In some embodiments, selecting the second set or any one of
the sets in the N sets of orders may be based on the delivery delay parameter of
each optional set.
[0052]      In box 360, the method may include determining an expected arrival
time at the preparation facility, of each courier from a plurality of available
couriers. The system (e.g., system 100) may receive localization information
related to each courier, for example, via communication unit 140. The localization
information may indicate the time distance of the courier from the facility, is the
courier on his way from or to the facility, or the like. The localization information
may be received from a transmitter associated with the courier, for example, a
positioning system (e.g., GPS) located on a courier's vehicle, a positioning
system included in a courier's mobile device (e.g., GPS antenna included in a
mobile phone), proximity transmitters (e.g., RFID) associated with the courier, or
the like. The localization information may be received at receivers located in the
preparation facility for example, communication unit 140 and/or proximity sensor
150.
[0053]      In some embodiments, the expected arrival time may be determined
based on time indicators. In some embodiments, a time indicator may include at
least one of: the courier is at the facility; the expected arrival of the courier at the
preparation facility is less than a first predetermined duration of time; the

                                             18
expected arrival of the courier at the preparation facility is less than a second
predetermined duration of time, the second predetermined duration of time is
larger than the first predetermined duration of time; and the expected arrival time
of the courier at the preparation facility is greater than the second predetermined
duration of time. For example, the first predetermined duration of time may be 5
minutes, which is the time required for baking a pizza in an oven, packing it for
delivery and batching with the rest of the order (e.g., a soft drink). In yet another
example, the second predetermined duration of time may be 8 minutes, which
includes the time required for manually preparing the pizza, baking a pizza in the
oven, packing it for delivery and batching.
[0054]       In some embodiments, a time indicator may also include that the
expected arrival of the courier at the preparation facility may be less than a
calculated preparation time of at least one stage in the preparation of at least one
good included in a set of orders. For example, a time indicator may include that a
currier is less than the calculated preparation time of 3 noodle soups and 2 fried
rice dishes included in a set of orders, for example, less than 10 minutes. In yet
another example, when 2 pizza ovens are available and the set of orders includes
4 pizzas, in order for the courier to be able to arrive in time to deliver the set of
orders, the couriers must be less than the calculated backing time of two pizzas
one after another (two pizzas are baked in parallel) and the time indicator is, for
example, 5+5=10 minutes. If only one pizza oven is available than the time
indicator becomes 20 minutes (4x5minutes).
[0055]       In some embodiments, the method may include determining a courier
as an available courier if the courier is at the facility or the expected arrival time of
the courier to the facility is less than the second predetermined duration of time.
Available couriers may include all the couriers that are expected to arrive back to
the facility in less than the second predetermined duration of time, for example,
couriers on their way back to the facility from a delivery task, couriers about to
start their shift, or the like. In some embodiments, couriers on their way back to
the facility from a delivery task at the end of their shift may not be considered as
available couriers.

                                            19
[0056]        In box 370, the method includes selecting a first courier from the
plurality of available couriers based on the determined expected arrival time at
the preparation facility. For example, processor 112 may be configured to select
the courier having the shortest arrival time, for example, 0 arrival time since the
courier is already in the facility, or a courier 1-2 minutes away from the facility. In
some embodiments, the method may include selecting a second courier from the
plurality of available couriers based on the determined arrival time at the
preparation facility. For example, the first courier may be a courier at the facility
and the second courier may be a courier 7 minutes away from the facility (on his
way back or on his way to deliver an order but with an estimated time back at the
facility, including the delivery time of less than 7 minutes for example). In some
embodiments, the method may include selecting N couriers from the plurality of
available couriers based on the determined arrival time at the preparation facility.
In some embodiments, processor 112 may be configured to select the N couriers
having the shortest arrival time to the facility or all available couriers. In some
embodiments, N is a number grater or equal to one and smaller or equal to the
number of available couriers.
[0057]        In box 380, the method may include assigning the first set of orders to
the first courier. Processor 112 may be configured to assign the first set to the
first courier and/or assign the second set to the second courier. In some
embodiments, processor 112 may be configured to assign each one of the N sets
of orders to one of the N couriers.
[0058]        In some embodiments, selecting of the first set of orders, selecting the
first courier and assigning the first set to the first courier minimize an average
delivery time of the first set of orders. The average delivery time refers to an
average of all the delivery times of the orders included in the first set of orders.
Processor 112 may be configured to select and assign the first set to the first
courier such that the delivery time of the orders in the first set is minimal, meaning
that the client(s) ordering the orders included in the first set may receive their
orders at a minimal time. The time for a delivery of a set of orders may include at
least one of: the time left for preparing all the goods included the set of orders

                                             20
(including the time needed for packing the goods), the time until the arrival of the
courier after packing (if not in the facility), the time to upload the orders into the
courier's vehicle, the time for traveling from the facility to the first delivery point,
the time for delivering the good (e.g., time from parking to door and back) and if
additional orders included in the set also the time for traveling to the second
delivery point and a second delivery time.
[0059]        In some embodiments, selecting the first set of orders and the second
set of orders, selecting the first courier and the second courier and assigning the
first set to the first courier and the second set to the second courier minimize the
average delivery time of the first set of orders and the second set of orders. The
average delivery time refers to an average of all the delivery times of all the
orders included in the first and second sets of orders. Processor 112 may be
configured to select and assign the first and second sets to the first and second
couriers such that the total time needed to prepare, load and deliver the first and
second orders is minimized.
[0060]        In some embodiments, similar method may be applied for optimizing
the average delivery time of N sets of orders. In some embodiments selecting the
N set of orders, selecting the N couriers and assigning the N sets to the N
couriers minimize the total delivery time of all the orders included in the N sets of
orders divided by the number of orders included in the N sets of orders.
[0061]        It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that minimizing the
average delivery time may be replaced by other rule such as minimizing total
delivery time, minimum traveling distance, minimizing energy cost, avoiding
problematic routes and/or the like.
[0062]        In box 385, the method may include receiving historical data related to
previous orders from a database. Processor 112 may receive from a database
associated with system 100 (e.g., memory 116) data related to previously
received and delivered orders. The data may include: the type and number of

                                            21
goods in each order, a timing determined for the preparation of each good in the
order, the estimated time for the order to be delivered, the number and/or ID of
the facility or store, the order's number and/or ID and a comparison between the
"promised time" for delivery told to the client and the real time at which the clients
received the order (calculated from the data of all the current orders and couriers'
location and back to the store time). The data may further include, the time of
each stage in the process (e.g. making, packing, flouring, leaving store and the
like), the driver's id/number, any other standard the store/net requires (e.g. is
order arrived within under 30 minutes, and the like),the time took to deliver each
order, the time took the courier to reach the facility and/or to reach the point of
delivery, and time/day/week/season in which the order was taken/delivered and
the like. This historical data may be used in a "machine learning" process which
utilizes historical data to learn about past tendencies and behavior of the system
to optimize the performance of system 100 as will be discussed below.
[0063]       In some embodiment, the method may further include receiving
information related to expected events. The information may be received from a
database (e.g., memory 116), external databases, over the internet and the like.
The expected events may include all events that may influence the amount of
orders, the type/number of goods in each order and the like. For example, the
expected events may include any sport game or match, local or international
events (e.g. elections, the Eurovision song contest, etc.), public venues nearby
that may attract the public and therefore increase traffic to the facility, special
dates such as Valentine's Day and the like.
[0064]       In box 390, the method may include determining a timing for the at
least one preparation stage of the one or more requested goods in the first set of
orders according to the selection of the first set, the first courier expected arrival
time and the historical data. In some embodiments, the determining of the timing
may be according to time indicators related to each courier. For example, if the
first courier is expected to arrive in less than 5 minutes (the first predetermined
duration of time) pizzas included in the first order may be put in the oven for
baking to be ready to be pickup upon the arrival of the first courier. Such a system

                                          22
may ensure that the pizzas will arrive to the client as hot and fresh as possible. In
yet another example, if the second courier is expected to arrive in less than 10
minutes (but more than 5 minutes) pizzas included in the second set of orders
may be manually prepared (flattening the dough, adding tomato source, cheese
and toppings) and later put in the oven when the courier is 5-6 minutes away from
the facility. In some embodiments, the method may include determine the timing
of the preparation stages for the goods included in the first set of orders based on
the time indicators of the first courier.
[0065]       In some embodiments, determining the timing for the at least one
preparation stage may further be based on the received historical data. Processor
122 may look and analyze previous orders that have substantially the same
requested goods as the first order and were delivered to points of delivery within
a predetermined distance from the point of delivery of the first order. Processor
112 may use previously determined timing, determined for these previous orders
in order to optimize and determine the timing for the at least one preparation
stage of the first order. In some embodiments, the processor may further look for
previous orders received at the same time slot is the same day of the week (e.g.,
Saturday evening during the summer vacation) in order to further optimize and
refine the determination of the timing. For example, if the analysis of the previous
orders yields that during Saturday's evening the amount of ordered Sushi
increase by 30% and previously determined timing shows a delay of an average
of 2 minutes in the preparation time of Sushi orders on Saturday's evenings,
processor 112 may determine the starting time for preparing the Sushi on
Saturday's evening to be 2 minutes early than usual.
[0066]       In some embodiments, the method may include determining the timing
for the at least one preparation stage is also based on the information related to
expected events. For example, if the expected event is Valentine's Day, the
timing for preparing and delivering bouquet of flowers may be shorten in the
coming hours prior to Valentine's Day. In yet another example, if the expected
event is the semifinal of the soccer "world cup" the timing between different

                                            23
preparation stages of a Pizza may be adjusted to produce larger number of
Pizzas to meet the expected rise in the amount of Pizzas.
[0067]      In some embodiments, determining the timing for the at least one
preparation stage may include determining a weight to each one of orders based
on the type and number of goods included in the order and the availability of the
couriers and determining the timing for the at least one preparation stage based
on the given weights. For example: if there are more delivery orders than take
away orders, the system may prioritize the delivery orders to be cooked first
rather than the take away orders. . In another example, the system may identify a
first sub group of orders includes substantially the same goods (e.g., Pizza
Peperoni and garlic bread) the system may prioritize the first sub-group to be
prepared in parallel regardless of the time of receiving each order. In yet another
example, the system may identify a second sub-group of orders that are all direct
to points of delivery in the same street, therefore can be delivered by the same
driver, the system may prioritize the second sub-group to be prepared in parallel
regardless of the time of receiving each order. In some embodiments, the method
may further include receiving a preparation facility parameter. The facility
parameters may include parameters related to the resources and conditions
related to the facility. The preparation facility parameters may include at least one
of: a number of workers available for preparing the first set of orders (e.g.,
number of cooks), a number of available couriers and a number of preparation
units available for preparing the first set of orders (e.g., number of pizza ovens,
fryers, stoves, soda fountain machines, or the like that are available (e.g. in order
but idle)). Processor 112 may select the first set of orders; select the first courier
and assign the first set to the first courier based on the preparation facility
parameter. The processor may further use the preparation facility parameters to
select the second set of orders; select the second courier and assign the second
set to the second courier; and select and assign the N sets of orders to the N
couriers.
[0068]      Reference is now made to Fig. 3B that is a flowchart of a method of
managing preparation and delivery of goods during an unexpected event

                                           24
according to some embodiments of the invention. An unexpected event according
to some embodiments of the invention may be an event that could not be
expected or predicated and may have an impact or affect at least one of: the
preparation of at least one order from the plurality of orders and the delivery of at
least one order from the plurality of orders. Such an unexpected event may
change the resources of the preparation facility (e.g., increase or decrease the
number of couriers, workers or preparation units), change the working conditions
(e.g., a weather change) or change in the orders (e.g., cancelation of orders). In
box 312, the method may include receiving an indication of an unexpected event.
The indication may be received after the operation in box 310 of the method of
Fig. 3 or after any other operation 320-390.
[0069]       In box 314, the method may include determining an impact or effect of
the unexpected event on one or more parameters: The one or more parameters
may include: the estimated traveling time from the preparation facility to at the
least two points of delivery; the traveling time between the at least two points of
delivery; the preparation parameter; the delivery parameter and the facility
parameter, disclosed and discussed above. A determined effect may change the
value of the parameter. For example, the unexpected event may be an accident
involving one of the couriers and the determined effect may be reducing the
number of available couriers. In yet another example, the unexpected event may
be an electric short circuit in one of the pizza ovens and the determined effect
may be reducing the number of pizza ovens.
[0070]       In box 316, the method may include selecting an operation mode
based on the determined effect. The operation mode may include changing the
maximal delivery time, the maximal traveling time between two points of delivery
or the like. If the unexpected event may cause a delay in the delivery, the system
may operate under an optional delay mode. In some embodiments, the system
may send customers alerts that the delivery of the order may be delayed.
[0071]       In box 318, the method may include updating the one or more
parameters' values based on the selected operation mode and determined effect.

                                             25
For example, the number of available couriers may be updated (e.g., reduced if a
courier is delayed or increase if a courier was added). In yet another example, the
estimated traveling time to a delivery point may change due to a change in the
weather (e.g., a beginning of a rain storm).
[0072]        In some embodiments, the updated one or more parameters' values
may affect the selecting and assigning of the first set to the first courier based, as
disclosed with respect to the operations in boxes 350, 370 and 380. In some
embodiments, the method may include selecting and assigning the first set to the
first courier based on the updated one or more parameters' values to minimize an
average delivery time of the first set of orders.
[0073]        In some embodiments, the method may include receiving an alert
when a delay is expected in the arrival time of the courier to the preparation
facility. If a delay is expected in the arrival time of the first, second or N courier, in
comparison to the estimated traveling time, due for example, to unexpected traffic
jam (e.g., due to a car accident) processor 112 may receive an alert. The alert
may be sent manually by the courier (e.g., via mobile device 200) or automatically
using a localization system (e.g., system 220) - or external system when the
courier is not on the move for a predetermined period of time. In some
embodiments, the method may change the selection of the first courier, the
second or any one of the N couriers based on the received delay. In some
embodiments, the method may change the selection of the first set, the second or
any one of the N sets based on the received delay.
[0074]        In some embodiments, the operations in boxes 310-390 or any other
operations disclosed above may be periodically repeated and updated. For
example, at least some of the operations 310-390 or any other operations
disclosed above may be repeated and updated every time a new order is
received, or every time a predetermined number of orders is received. In yet
another example, at least some of the operations 310-390 or any other operations
disclosed above may be repeated and updated every time an available courier is
added to (or subtract from) a list of available couriers, for example, when a new

                                           26
courier starts his shift, an estimated arrival time of a courier drops under the
second predetermined duration of time, or the like. In some embodiments, at least
one of the operations may be timely updated, updated following an input received
from a worker, an input received from a courier and/or an input automatically
received from a preparation unit.
[0075]       In some embodiments, the method may include presenting the
determined timing, using for example, presentation unit (also referred to as flow
instruction timing unit) 120. At least some of the stages timing included in the
preparation process of a good may be presented using one or more presentation
units 120. Presentation unit 120 may be placed in a kitchen, near a baking oven,
near the packing and batching station or the like. In some embodiments,
presentation unit 120 may include one or more input devices and may be
configured to receive inputs from the worker preparing the goods. For example,
presentation unit 120 may include a touch screen so that a cook or a baker may
indicate to processor 112 that a stage in the preparation has started and/or
finished via the touch screen.
[0076]       Exemplary screen (included in flow instruction timing unit 120) for
presenting preparation stages timing in a pizzeria, according to some
embodiments of the invention, are shown in Figs. 4A and 4B.Figs. 4A and 4B are
exemplary screens presenting to pizza bakers in a pizzeria. The upper portion of
each screen includes the number of baking goods needed in the coming orders
(e.g., garlic bread, 13" pizza, 14" pizza, etc.). The middle portion includes two
windows dedicated to two different orders, optionally assigned to a specific
courier, for example, in Fig. 4A order no. 50 is assigned to courier A and order
number 51 to courier B and in Fig. 4B order 55 is assigned to courier C and order
number 59 to courier A. The lower windows of the screens present for each order
the types of pizzas to prepare, the starting time for preparing the pizzas and if the
preparation include, making the pizzas (e.g., without baking) as presented in Fig.
4A, or making the pizzas and baking as presented in Fig. 4B. If the pizzas were
already made, the screen may present starting time (or timing) for baking the
pizzas only. The screens in Figs. 4A and 4B are given as an example only and it

                                            27
should be noted by those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to this
particular form of screens.
[0077]       Reference is made to Figs. 5A and 5B that show exemplary screens
presenting to user a status of the orders and the couriers according to some
embodiments of the invention, for example, screens include in a preparation
timing unit. The screen of Fig. 5A shows on the right side a map indicating the
location of each courier and the delivery points of at least some of the orders
(e.g., the orders being delivered in the next 10 minutes by couriers already on
their way). The left side of the screen discloses the status of at least some of the
orders, for example, the preparation/delivery duration, which orders are grouped
into one set (e.g., the two upper orders), which courier is assigned to these orders
or the like. The screen of Fig. 5B shows on the right side the same map as the
screen of Fig. 5A and on the left side, the status of the couriers, for example,
what is the expected arrival time for each courier (e.g., 2 minutes for Naomi and 9
minutes for Ido), is the courier on his/her way back to the facility (e.g., Naomi) or
from the facility (e.g., Ido), which courier is delivering a set of orders (e.g., Ido) or
the like. The screens in Figs. 5A and 5B are given as an example only and it
should be noted by those skilled in the art, that the invention is not limited to this
particular form of screens.
[0078]       Reference is made to Fig. 6 which is an exemplary screen (e.g.,
screen 220) included in a mobile device associated with a courier. The screen
may present to courier information required to successfully complete the delivery
task. For example, as illustrated in Fig. 6, the information may include: the
number of orders, the address of each order, which order is to be delivered first
(e.g., order 7) or the like. The screen may further present statistical information
related to the performance of the courier. For example, in the lower portion of the
screen the courier may find: how many orders he/she delivered today, how many
per hour, what is the average deliveries per hour of all the couriers in the shift,
and his personal rate. The screen in Fig. is 6 given as an example only and it
should be noted by those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to this
particular form of screen.

                                            28
[0079]       Some aspects of the invention may be related to a simulation of a
preparation and delivery processes for a preparation facility. Processor 112 may
be configured to receive historical information related to preparation and delivery
of goods for a particular preparation facility. For example, the processor may
receive data gathered during a working day in a pizzeria. An exemplary data may
include, the order's chronological number, an address (the delivery point), the
time of the receiving the order, the number of goods included in the order, an
identification no. of the courier delivering the order and the preparation time and
traveling time of each order.
[0080]       The received data may be analyzed by processor 112 according to the
following method. The method may include at least some of the operations in
boxes 310-390. The method may analyze the data at one point in time, for
example, after 1 hour from opening hour, or at the end of the working day, and
may use data received at that point in time. The method may include calculating
estimated traveling time from the preparation facility to each point of delivery
(e.g., an address) and estimating a traveling time between some pairs of points of
delivery. The method may further include determining optional sets of orders and
selecting sets of orders from the optional sets of orders based on the calculated
traveling time and estimated traveling time between a pair of delivery points. The
method may further include determining an expected arrival time at the
preparation facility, for each courier, determining a group of available couriers and
assigning each of the couriers to one of the selected sets.
[0081]       The selection and assigning of the sets and the couriers may be such
that the average delivery time of all orders in the selected sets is minimized. The
method may further include repeating the above operations (or steps) at various
points in time during the working day (or a shift), for receiving an optimal
preparation and delivery scheme for the entire working day. In some
embodiments, the method may include presenting the optimized preparation and
delivery scheme for a client. Table 2 is an exemplary optimized preparation and
delivery scheme presenting a portion of the orders received between 12:00-12:10
AM. The scheme presents to the client an optimized selection of orders to be

                                            29
included in each set and an optimized assignment of each set to a courier. An
exemplary scheme is presented in table 1.
[0082]      As one can see the total preparation and traveling time of each order is
below 30 minutes, ensuring a timely delivering of fresh hot goods to the customer.
Sets 1-8 assigned to various couriers include 1-5 orders. For example, set 3
includes only order no. 6 and set 7 includes orders no, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17.
Simulations done for actual pizzerias using methods and system of the invention
yields in potential saving of more than 20% in the delivery time while ensuring
that almost all orders are delivered in less than 30 minutes.
[0083]       In some embodiments, the simulation may assist managing the
resources of the preparation facility, for example, optimizing the number of ovens,
the number of cooks and the number of couriers. For example, the simulation
disclosed above may be conducted with a different number of couriers than the
one currently employed in each sift, for example, a higher number of couriers or a
lower number of couriers. The simulation may yield that adding X couriers may
shorten the delivery time and reducing X couriers may increase the delivery time
but lower the labor cost. The simulation may be conducted for various values of X
(e.g., 1-10). The result may indicate if it will be benefiting to increase the number
of couriers and what is the optimal number, or what will be the consequences of
reducing the number of couriers and if it will dramatically reduce the delivery time.
The same methodology can be used with any variable parameter of the
preparation facility, for example, the number of worker, the number of production
units (e.g., ovens) or the like.
[0084]      Table 1.
order                              Order    No. of  courier  preparation  Traveling  Set
  no.             address          Time    goods      No      time [min]  time [min] No
   1     42 A street, Emerald City 12:00      1       2          13.80        1       1
   2     13 B street, Emerald City 12:01      3       4          16.80        6       2
   3     48 A street, Emerald City 12:03      2       2          18.80        7       1
   4     15 C street, Emerald City 12:05      4       4          14.80        1       2

                                            30
   5    33 C street, Emerald City   12:06     4         4         16.60       5        2
   6     11 Q street, Emerald City  12:08     4         5         17.90       7        3
   7    22 D street, Emerald City   12:10     3         6         14.00       4        4
   8       4332U , Emerald City     12:11     2         6         18.90       6        4
   9     55 E street, Emerald City  12:12     3         1         16.30       1        5
  10    66 D street, Emerald City   12:12     7         6         16.20       3        4
  11     77 A street, Emerald City  12:13     2         2         19.70       1        6
  12    88 R street, Emerald City   12:14     3          4        21.7        7        7
  13       4992U, Emerald City      12:15     1         4          17.9       8        7
  14    101 A street , Emerald City 12:16     4         3          17.9       2        8
  15     12 T street , Emerald City 12:18     1         4          16.2       4        7
  16     23 T street , Emerald City 12:18     8         4         20.1        4        7
  17     34 T street , Emerald City 12:18     4         4          18.8       6        7
  18      City Hall , Emerald City  12:20     4         3          18.8       5        8
[0085]       While certain features of the invention have been and described
herein, many modifications, substitutions, changes, and equivalents will now
occur to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the
appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall
within the true spirit of the invention.

                                              31
CLAIMS:
1.      A method of managing preparation and delivery of goods, comprising:
        receiving a plurality of orders, each order comprising one or more
requested goods and a point of delivery, wherein each of the requested goods
requires at least one preparation stage;
        calculating estimated traveling time from a preparation facility to at least
one point of delivery of the plurality of orders;
        determining optional sets of orders from the plurality of orders, wherein
each of said optional sets of orders comprises at least one order;
        selecting a first set of orders from the optional sets of orders based at least
on the calculated traveling time from the preparation facility to at least one point
of delivery;
        determining an expected arrival time at the preparation facility, of each
courier from a plurality of available couriers;
        selecting a first courier from the plurality of available couriers based on the
determined expected arrival time at the preparation facility;
        assigning the first set to the first courier,
        wherein selecting of the first set of orders, selecting the first courier and
assigning the first set to the first courier minimize an average delivery time of the
first set of orders;
        receiving historical data related to previous orders from a database;
        determining a timing for the at least one preparation stage of the one or
more requested goods in the first set of orders according to the selection of the
first set, the first courier expected arrival time and the received historical data.

                                            32
2.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         receiving information related to expected events; and
         wherein determining the timing for the at least one preparation stage is
also based on the information related to expected events.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein determining the timing for the at least one
preparation stage comprises:
         determining a weight to each one of orders based on the type and number
of goods included in the order and the availability of the couriers; and
         determining the timing for the at least one preparation stage based on the
given weights.
4.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         calculating estimated traveling time from the preparation facility to at least
two points of delivery of at least two of the plurality of orders;
         estimating at least a traveling time between the at least two points of
delivery; and wherein selecting the first set of orders from the optional sets of
orders is also based at least on the calculated traveling time from the preparation
facility to each of the at least two points of delivery and the estimated traveling
time between the at least two points of delivery.
5.       The method of calm 4, compressing:
         selecting N sets of orders from the optional sets of orders based at least
on the calculated traveling time and the estimated traveling time between the
points of delivery;
         selecting N couriers from the plurality of available couriers based on the
determined arrival time at the preparation facility; and

                                          33
        assigning each one of the N sets of orders to one of the N couriers,
        wherein N is a number grater or equal to one and smaller or equal to the
number of available couriers, and
        wherein selecting the N set of orders, selecting the N couriers and
assigning the N sets to the N couriers minimize the total preparation and delivery
time of all the goods included in the N sets of orders divided by the number of
orders included in the N sets of orders.
DRAGONTAIL SYSTEMS LTD.
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
UIP1553AU00

                                          1/7
<removed-date>                100
                                                           130
                                    110
                                                      ORDER
<removed-apn>
                     112                              RECEIVING             132
                                                      UNIT
                                 PROCESSOR
                                                         SCREEN
                                                                            134
                                 OPERATING
                                                         INPUT/OUTP
                    114          SYSTEM
                                                         UT DEVICES
                                                                              136
                                 MEMORY                  AUDIO
                    116
                                                         DEVICE
                                                           COMMUNICATION
                    FLOW
              120                                          UNIT
                    INSTRUCTIONS
                    TIMING UNIT
                                  PROXIMITY     140
                    150           SENSOR
                                                MOBILE
                                                DEVICE     MOBILE      MOBILE
                                                           DEVICE      DEVICE
                                          200
                                                         200          200
                                      FIG. 1

                              2/7
<removed-date>
              200
              MOBILE DEVICE
                                    210
              SCREEN
                                    220
<removed-apn>
              LOCALIZATION
              SYSTEM
                                      230
              PROCESSOR
              COMMUNICATION          240
              MODULE
                          FIG. 2

                                  3/7
              310
<removed-date>
                    RECEIVING A PLURALITY OF ORDERS
              320   CALCULATING ESTIMATED TRAVELING
                    TIME FROM A PREPARATION FACILITY TO
                    POINTS OF DELIVERY
<removed-apn>
              330
                    ESTIMATING  A    TRAVELING    TIME
                    BETWEEN TWO POINTS OF DELIVERY
              340
                    DETERMINING    OPTIONAL   SETS    OF
                    ORDERS
              350
                    SELECTING A FIRST SET OF ORDERS
                    FROM THE OPTIONAL SETS OF ORDERS
              360
                    DETERMINING AN EXPECTED ARRIVAL
                    TIME OF EACH COURIER
              370
                    SELECTING A FIRST COURIER FROM THE
                    PLURALITY OF AVAILABLE COURIERS
              380
                    ASSIGNING THE FIRST SET TO THE FIRST
                    COURIER
              385
                    RECEIVING HISTORICAL DATA RELATED
                    TO PREVIOUS ORDERS
              390
                    DETERMINING A STARTING TIME FOR A
                    PREPARATION    STAGE    OF    THE
                    REQUESTED GOODS
                              FIG. 3A

                               4/7
<removed-date>   312
                    RECEIVING AN INDICATION      OF   AN
                    UNEXPECTED EVENT
<removed-apn>
              314
                    DETERMINING AN EFFECT OF THE
                    UNEXPECTED EVENT ONE OR MORE
                    PARAMETERS
              316
                    SELECTING AN OPERATION MODE BASED
                    ON THE DETERMINED EFFECT
              318
                    UPDATING    THE   ONE   OR    MORE
                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2720><U+2721><U+260E><U+271D> <U+261B><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+2706><U+270E><U+260E>
                    SELECTED OPERATION MODE
                            FIG. 3B

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                6/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                         Prep
                         Facility
              FIG. 5A
                        Prep
                        Facility
              FIG. 5B

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    7/7
FIG. 6

