                                                  1
ABSRACT
In one form the present disclosure illustrates a bedding apparatus to provide a soft, cushioned,
foldable layer or layers that can be trimmed, folded, or otherwise adjusted precisely to the
required size of the bedframe, and is breathe-through for users that may have turned face down.
In another form, the user is further elevated by a breathe-through support-structure that is user
configurable as to length, width and height, and is modular and nesting for ease of compact
storage and shipping.

2/5
    LL

                                                   1
STRUCTURE FOR SIZE-ADJUSTABLE, BREATHE-THROUGH SAFETY BEDDING
FIELD
[0001] The present disclosure relates to a safety bedding apparatus, and more particularly to a
structure for a size-adjustable, breathe-through safety bedding apparatus.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Studies of sleep safety, most particularly among infants and disabled people of all ages,
implicate two design features of the sleep apparatus that are most hazardous. Firstly, an
improper fit of the mattress within the frame of the bed can create entrapping gaps between the
mattress edge and the bedframe. Such gaps may give rise to sleep positions that cause the
mattress edge to compress the user's neck, leading to death. Secondly, mattresses that cannot be
readily breathed through can lead to suffocation of users who are positioned face down and
unable to extricate their noses and mouths.
[0003] One notable patent has specifically addressed the breathe-through property of a mattress.
U.S. Patent Number 8,607,390 B2 to Obriot and Andreae, dated December 17, 2013, discloses
what can be termed a "trampoline" style solution, whereby a breathe-through fabric layer of pre
determined size is stretched on a folding frame which is itself attached to a rigid frame of pre
determined size. The present invention, by contrast, teaches an alternative breathe-through
arrangement of components that is not dependent on such a trampoline arrangement of pre
determined size.
[0004] Unlike the present invention, the teachings of Obriot and Andreae do not include user
configurable size adjustment. User-configurable size adjustment is a key feature of the present
invention, conferring protection against hazardous gaps between the edge of the bedding
apparatus and the frame of the crib, cot, or bed.
[0005] Accordingly, the prior art fails to disclose, or even to suggest, a bedding structure that
simultaneously achieves both the breathe-through and the edge-gap-minimisation, i.e. size
configurability, teachings of the present invention.
SUMMARY
[0006] This section is not intended as a comprehensive disclosure of all features of the
invention. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of
illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

                                                    2
[0007] In one form the present disclosure illustrates a bedding apparatus to provide a soft,
cushioned, foldable layer or layers that can be trimmed, folded, or otherwise adjusted precisely
to the required size of the bedframe, and is breathe-through for users that may have turned face
down. In another form, the user is further elevated by a breathe-through support-structure that is
user-configurable as to length, width and height, and is modular and nesting for ease of compact
storage and shipping.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0008] The drawings described herein are for illustrative purposes only of selected embodiments
and not all possible implementations, and are not intended to limit the scope of the present
disclosure.
[0009] FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a size-configurable sleep surface, i.e. a breathe-through
plain sheet or mattress case, being affixed to a size-configurable cushion;
[0010] FIG. 2 is a perspective view of the sleep surface and cushion of FIG. 1 inverted over a
size-adjustable support structure intended for a crib, cot, or bed, according to the principles of
the present disclosure;
[0011] FIG. 3 is a magnified perspective view of one of the four hollow or vented pedestal
structures of FIG. 2;
[0012] FIG. 4 is a top view of four pedestal structures of FIG. 2 placed respectively at the
comers of a typical rectangular mattress base of a crib, cot, or bed;
 [0013] FIG. 5 is a perspective view of two bridging structures of FIG. 2 and a pedestal structure
of FIG. 2, showing one means of attaching overlapping structures using a hair-pin cable tie.
[0014] Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several
views presented by the drawings.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0015] Example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the
accompanying drawings. These example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will
be clearly understood and will fully convey the essence to those who are skilled in the art. While
numerous specific details are set forth here, including examples of specific components, devices,
and methods, to provide a complete understanding of example embodiments of the present
disclosure, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that not all possible variations and
alternative forms have been cited. The alternative forms that have been included should not be
construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. In some example embodiments well-known

                                                   3
processes, well-known device structures, and well-known technologies have not been described
in detail.
[0016] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein, the singular forms "a,"
"an," and "the" may be intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise. The terms "comprises," "comprising," "including," and "having" are
inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations,
elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof The method
steps, processes, and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring
their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated, unless specifically identified as
an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be
employed.
[0017] When an element or layer is referred to as being "on," "engaged to," "connected to," or
";coupled to" another element or layer it may be directly on, engaged, connected, or coupled to
the other element or layer, or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast, when
an element is referred to as being "directly on," or "directly engaged to," or "directly connected
to," or "directly coupled to" another element or layer, there may be no intervening elements of
layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be
interpreted in a like fashion (e.g., "between" versus "directly between," "adjacent" versus
"directly adjacent," etc.). As used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of
one or more of the associated listed items.
[0018] With reference to FIGS. 1-5, an appropriately flame-retardant sleep surface 7 is
provided which may be fully or partially wrapped around, or otherwise held snugly against, a
cushion 10, and fixed to the cushion by an arrangement of cords 8 and hooks 9, by insertion, or
by alternative means. Both the sleep surface 7 and the cushion 10 may be trimmed or folded or
otherwise adjusted to the required size by the user to ensure minimum gaps where the edges
meet the frame of the crib, cot, or bed 11. The edge of the trimmed cushion 10 may be covered
in breathe-through, hypoallergenic tape, or sealed by other means such as overlocked stitching or
heat shrinkage. Alternative wrapping or covering methods of sleep surface 7 on cushion 10 may
also be employed, and alternative fixing or bonding means such as elastic, Velcro, button, snap,
clip, clamp, adhesive, weaving, magnet, zipper, or the like, may be employed, alone or in
combination. The sleep surface 7 and cushion 10 assembly may be used in single or multiple
layers to adjust the depth, alone or with other strata, to improve the overall permeability
properties, particularly permeability to expelled air. The assembly may be rectangular or of
another shape. Particular embodiments may also include a size-adjustable support-structure,
which may consist of one or more hollow or vented pedestal structures 12 that may be nesting
when stacked, and one or more open-mesh, slotted, perforated, or otherwise permeable bridging
and/or extension and/or elevation structures 13, 14, 15. These bridging/extension/elevation
structures 13, 14, and multiple additions 15, may be overlapping and may be of individual size,
shape, orientation and potential fixing points to achieve a snug fit of the overall support-structure
within the constraints of the crib, cot, or bed 11. The edge of the support-structure, regardless of
final size, may be wrapped in or shielded by a breathe-through net, fabric, screen, card or

                                                   4
alternative decorative component 16, which may be attached to the sleep surface 7 and cushion
10 assembly or may be separate from said assembly and held in position by appropriate fixing
means.
[0019] The sleep surface 7, the cushion 10, the pedestal structures 12, and the
bridging/extension/elevation structures 13, 14, and multiple additions 15 may be permeable to
fluids, may dissipate heat, and may facilitate the free through-flow of air, particularly expelled
air, and may, alone or in combination, contribute to comfortable skin contact. These properties
may be inherent or achievable via ad hoc adjustment by the user.
[0020] A number of fabrics and fabric-like materials with these properties are available for the
sleep surface 7, including, for example, Lyocell, polyester, and "spacer" fabrics, and similar
three-dimensional, warp-knitted or open-weave products. These or alternative materials and
fabrics may be used in single or multiple layers, alone or in combination, to produce the
aforementioned desired effects.
[0021] Likewise, a number of conformable materials with the desired properties are available
for the cushion 10, including polyester spacer fabric SF0815 made by Quanzhou Wellcool
Cushion Technology Co, Ltd located in Quanzhou ,Fujian, China. This or alternative materials
and fabrics may be used in single or multiple layers, alone or in combination, to produce the
desired effects.
[0022] Similarly, a number of rigid and semi-rigid materials with the desired properties are
available for the bridging/extension/elevation structures 13, 14, and multiple additions 15,
including 3D spacer-mesh, warp-knitted, polyester fabric SF0808 made by Quanzhou Wellcool
Cushion Technology Co, Ltd located in Quanzhou ,Fujian, China.
[0023] Each hollow or vented pedestal structure 12 may have a flat or profile-enhanced top 18
that is open mesh, slotted, perforated, or otherwise permeable to fluids, and includes one or more
vents 17 through the side wall. All open or permeable components 17 and 18 may be of any size
and geometric shape, or of adjustable sizes and shapes, to achieve adequate ventilation and
dispersion of expelled air. The overall height of each pedestal structure may be adjustable using
internal or external brackets 19 or alternative means. The support-structure may be adjusted or
inclined, as required for the additional safety and/or comfort of the user. The positioning of the
pedestal structures 12 on the crib, cot, or bed is amenable to the special requirements of each
case, but the typical positioning for rectangular furniture may include the corners, the periphery,
and as much of the remaining space as possible. This common solution does not preclude the
design of pedestal structures 12, as well as bridging/extension/elevation structures 13, 14, 15, of
various sizes which are not themselves rectangular, and which may be designed with profiles to
fit specific curved furniture. Pedestal structures 12 that are positioned fully or partly adjacent to
other such structures, or to the frame of the crib, cot, or bed, may be joined to said structures or
to said frame with clips and/or with other joining means.
[0024] Bridging/extension/elevation structures 13, 14, and multiple additions 15 may be
separate from, or integral to, the pedestal structures 12. In cases where said
bridging/extension/elevation structures 13, 14, and multiple additions 15 require fixing to one or
more pedestal structures 12 the fixing may be achieved by any appropriate means. One preferred
option may be a hair-pin cable tie 20 that can be inserted through aligned openings in two or
more stacked structures and then raised to snag overlapping cross members. By this means

                                                    5
separate components of the support-structure may be mutually secured working only from the
top, after the overall size of the support-structure has been optimized in situ on the crib, cot, or
bed.
[0025] The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of
illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention.
Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that
particular embodiment, but, where applicable, are interchangeable and can be used in a selected
embodiment, even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many
ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention, and all such
modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There is only 1
   page of Claims.

CLAIMS
1.       A mattress comprising a removable, foldable, washable, fluid-permeable, breathe
through, size-and-depth adjustable sleep surface; and a removable, foldable, washable, fluid
permeable, breathe-through, size-and-depth adjustable cushion; wherein said sleep surface is
positioned over the upper surface, or multiple surfaces, of said cushion and held to said
cushion by wrapping, envelopment, or insertion, and/or by fixing or bonding means.
2.       The invention of claim 1 further comprising a user-assembled, user-configured,
removable, washable, fluid-permeable, breathe-through, support structure.
3.       The invention of claim 2 wherein said support structure is length- and width
adjustable by the user.
4.       The invention of claim 3 wherein said support structure disassembles into nesting,
modular units for easier shipping and storage.
5.       The invention of claim 4 wherein said support structure is height-adjustable by the
user.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
