  ABSTRACT
  The present application relates to a method of predicting the response of HPV positive and HPV
  negative cancer patients, including HNSCC patients, to a drug, including agents that specifically
  bind to an EGFr polypeptide.      The present application also relates to methods and kits for
5 predicting the usefulness of agents that specifically bind to an EGFr polypeptide in the treatment
  of cancer, including HNSCC, in HPV positive and negative patients.

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
                       USE OF HUMAN PAPILLOMAVIRUS STATUS
                             IN THE TREATMENT OF CANCER
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  5           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
     61/533,082 filed September 9, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
              The instant disclosure relates to Human Papillomavirus (HPV) and to methods
 10  of using HPV status as a predictive indicator in patients having at least one type of
     cancer, including cancers characterized by the presence of a tumor, such as a head and
     neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) tumor, particularly in the context of a
     therapeutic regimen involving an anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr)
     specific binding agent.     The instant disclosure also relates to methods of treating
 15  patients having a tumor, such as a HNSCC tumor, using an anti-EGFr specific binding
     agent, and to methods of stratifying such patients on the basis of HPV status. The
     anti-EGFR specific binding agent can be, e.g., an antibody, such as a monoclonal
     antibody.
20                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
              Certain applications of monoclonal antibodies in cancer therapy rely on the
     ability of the antibody to specifically deliver to the cancerous tissues cytotoxic
     effector functions such as immune-enhancing isotypes, toxins or drugs.          Another
     alternative approach is to utilize monoclonal antibodies to directly affect the survival
25   of tumor cells by depriving them of essential extracellular proliferation signals, such
     as those mediated by growth factors through their cell receptors. One attractive target
     in this approach is the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr), which binds EGF and
     can also bind transforming growth factor a (TGFa) (see, e.g., Ullrich et al., Cell
                                                  1

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     61:203-212, 1990; Baselga et al., Pharmacol. Ther. 64: 127-154, 1994; Mendelsohn
     et al., in Biologic Therapy of Cancer 607-623, Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott Co.,
     1995; and Fan et al., Curr. Opin. Oncol. 10: 67-73, 1998).          Binding of EGF or
     TGFa to EGFr, a 170 kDa transmembrane cell surface glycoprotein, triggers a
  5  cascade of cellular biochemical events, including EGFr autophosphorylation and
     internalization, which culminates in cell proliferation (see, e.g., Ullrich et al., Cell
     61:203-212, 1990).
              Monoclonal antibodies specific to human EGFr, have been generated from
     mice and rats (see, e.g., Baselga et al., Pharmacol. Ther. 64: 127-154, 1994;
 10  Mendelsohn et al., in Biologic Therapy of Cancer pp. 607-623, Philadelphia: J.B.
     Lippincott Co., 1995; Fan et al., Curr. Opin. Oncol. 10: 67-73, 1998; Modjtahedi et
     al., Intl. J. Oncology 4: 277-296, 1994). Some of those antibodies, such as the mouse
     antibodies 108, 225 (see, e.g., Aboud-Pirak et al., J. Natl. CancerInst. 80: 1605-1611,
     1988) and 528 (see, e.g., Baselga et al., Pharmacol. Ther. 64: 127-154, 1994;
 15  Mendelsohn et al., in Biologic Therapy of Cancer pp. 607-623, Philadelphia: J.B.
     Lippincott Co., 1995) or the rat ICR16, ICR62 and ICR64 (see, e.g., Modjtajedi et al.,
     Intl. J. Oncology 4: 277-296, 1994; Modjtahedi et al., Br. J. Cancer 67:247-253,
     1993; Modjtahedi et al., Br. J. Cancer 67: 254-261, 1993) monoclonal antibodies,
     were evaluated extensively for their ability to affect tumor growth in xenograft mouse
20   models. A chimeric version of the 225 monoclonal antibody (C225), in which the
     mouse antibody variable regions are linked to human constant regions, exhibited an
     improved in vivo anti-tumor activity but only at high doses (see, e.g., Goldstein et al.,
     Clinical Cancer Res. 1: 1311-1318, 1995; Prewett et al., J. Immunother. Emphasis
     Tumor Immunol. 19: 419-427, 1996).         This antibody ultimately became cetuximab
25   (Erbitux@, Eli Lilly).
              Certain advances in the biological arts have made it possible to produce a fully
     human anti-EGFr antibodies.       Using mice transgenic for human immunoglobulin
     genes (Xenomouse@ technology, Abgenix, Inc.), human antibodies specific for
     human EGFr were developed (see, e.g., Mendez, Nature Genetics, 15: 146-156, 1997;
30   Jakobovits, Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev., 31(1-2): 33-42, 1998; Jakobovits, Expert Opin.
     Invest. Drugs, 7(4): 607-614, 1998; Yang et al., Crit.Rev. Oncol. Hematol. 38(1):17
     23, 2001; W098/24893; WO 98/50433).                 One such antibody, panitumumab
                                                 2

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     (Vectibix@, Amgen Inc), a human IgG2 monoclonal antibody with an affinity of 5 x
     10-11 M for human EGFr, has been shown to block binding of EGF to the EGFr, to
     block receptor signaling, and to inhibit tumor cell activation and proliferation in vitro
     (see, e.g., W098/50433; See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,235,883).       Studies in athymic
  5  mice have demonstrated that panitumumab also has in vivo activity, not only
     preventing the formation of human epidermoid carcinoma A431 xenografts in
     athymic mice, but also eradicating already-established large A431 tumor xenografts
     (see, e.g., Yang et al., Crit. Rev. Oncol. Hematol. 38(1):17-23, 2001; Yang et al.,
     Cancer Res. 59(6):1236-43,      1999).    Panitumumab has been considered for the
 10  treatment of renal carcinoma, colorectal adenocarcinoma, prostate cancer, and non
     small cell squamous lung carcinoma, among other cancers (see, e.g., U.S. Patent
     Publication No. 2004/0033543). Panitumumab has been approved by the US Food &
     Drug Administration to treat certain patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
              Papillomaviruses induce benign, dysplastic and malignant hyperproliferations
 15  of skin and mucosal epithelium (see, e.g., Mansur and Androphy, (1993) Biochim
     Biophys Acta 1155:323-345; Pfister (1984) Rev. Physiol. Biochem. Pharmacol.
     99:111-181; and Broker et al. (1986) Cancer Cells 4:17-36, for reviews of the
     molecular, cellular, and clinical aspects of the papillomaviruses). While most HPV
     induced epithelial lesions are benign, lesions arising from certain papillomavirus
20   types e.g., HPV-16 and HPV-18, can undergo malignant progression.
              The role of HPV in the development and natural history of various cancers,
     including head and neck cancers, has been studied. See, e.g., Joseph & Pai, (2011)
     ASCO; Lassen et al., (2009) J Clin Onc. 27:1992-98; Perrone et al., (2006) Human
     CancerBiol. 12:6643-665 1; Stetlow et al., (2010) Am JSurg.Path. 34:el5-e24; Ihloff
25   et al., (2010) Oral Onc. 46:705-11; Klussman et al, (2003) Am J Path. 162:747-53.
     More particularly, Lassen et al. demonstrate that p 1 6 INK4A is correlated with HPV
     infection and thus exhibits a prognostic effect in HPV positive HNSCC patients.
     Perrone et al. demonstrated that there are various forms of HNSCC, including HPV
     associated HNSCC and environmentally-driven HNSCC; each of these forms of
30   HNSCC show marked differences            in terms of p53       status and EGFr gene
     amplification.    Stetlow et al. described the histopathological parameters in HPV
     positive HNSCC patients.         Klussman et al. demonstrated the molecular and
                                                 3

WO 2013/066491                                                              PCT/US2012/054137
     histopathological separation between HPV positive and HPV negative HNSCC
     patients. Finally, Ilhoff et al. reviewed recent clinical studies supporting the idea that
     HPV-positive tumor status can serve as a prognostic factor associated in HNSCC
     patients.
  5          HPV positive locally advanced HNSCC patients have been observed to
     possess a different spectrum of DNA mutations, and a better prognosis than HPV
     negative HNSCC patients. The referenced studies may or may not collectively point
     to a prognostic role of HPV status in HNSCC patients but, regardless of whether HPV
     status is or is not a reliable prognostic indicator, until the present disclosure there has
 10  been no discussion of HPV status as a predictive indicator in HNSCC patients for a
     drug, e.g., panitumumab or cetuximab, nor has there been any demonstration of an
     enhanced effect of a drug, e.g., panitumumab or cetuximab, on the overall survival
     and/or progression-free survival of HPV negative HNSCC patients.
             In some trials EGFr inhibitors have been shown to generate sufficient survival
 15  benefit even in unselected populations, but in others there was no substantial benefit.
     Even in the case of some approved EGFr inhibitors it has become more and more
     clear that efficient and reliable tests are of benefit in identifying those patients that
     might meaningfully benefit from treatment with EGFR inhibitors and those patients
     that are not likely to meaningfully benefit from such therapy. See, e.g., Ladanyi et al.,
20   Mod Pathol. 2008 May; 21 Suppl 2:S16-22. As described herein, the HPV status of a
     tumor in HNSCC patients can serve as such an indicator. In accordance with the
     instant disclosure, it has now been found that EGFr inhibitors (such as panitumumab)
     improve progression-free survival and overall survival of patients having HPV
     negative tumors, particularly HNSCC tumors. Consistent with this data, the instant
25   disclosure also relates to screeing a patient to determine whether administering an
     EGFr inhibitor to the patient will provide a therapeutic benefit.
                                            SUMMARY
             In one aspect a method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor will
30   benefit from treatment comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
                                                  4

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
     polypeptide is provided.     In one embodiment the method comprises determining
     whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV negative, wherein if the patient's
     tumor is HPV negative, the patient is predicted to benefit from treatment with an
     agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
  5          In one embodiment the determining comprises determining the presence or
     absence of p161NK4A in a tumor sample obtained from the patient, wherein the
     presence of p16INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the absence of
     p16INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV negative. In one embodiment, the agent
     that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide can be an antibody to EGFr. In one
 10  embodiment the antibody to EGFr is panitumumab.           In a further embodiment the
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an
     immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p16IN4An
     a sample of the tumor. In a further embodiment the tumor is a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor, and in still further embodiments the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor
 15  or a larynx tumor, or a tumor of the oral cavity, or a tumor of the hypopharynx. In
     various embodiments the tumor is a locally advanced tumor. In other embodiments
     the tumor is a recurrent metastatic tumor.
             In another aspect a method of prolonging the progression-free and/or overall
     survival of a patient having a tumor that has been determined to be HPV negative is
20   provided.    In one embodiemt the method comprises administering an agent that
     specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide to the patientwhereby the progression-free
     and/or overall survival of the patient is prolonged.         In one embodiment the
     determining comprises determining the presence or absence of p16INK4A in a tumor
     sample obtained from the patient, wherein the presence of p1 6 INK4A indicates that the
25   patient is HPV positive and the absence of p 1 6 NK4A indicates that the patient is HPV
     negative.    In one embodiment, the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide can be an antibody to EGFr. In one embodiment the antibody to EGFr is
     panitumumab. In a further embodiment the determining the presence or absence of
     p16INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to
30   identify the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a sample of the tumor. In a further
     embodiment the tumor is a locally advanced HNSCC tumor, and in still further
     embodiments the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor or a larynx tumor, or a tumor of
                                                 5

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
     the oral cavity, or a tumor of the hypopharynx. In various embodiments the tumor is a
     locally advanced tumor. In other embodiments the tumor is a recurrent metastatic
     tumor.    In still other embodiments the method further comprises administering
     chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
  5          In another aspect, a method of stratifying a population of patients having a
     tumor is provided. In one aspect the method comprises (a) determining whether the
     patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV negative; and (b) selecting patients whose
     tumors are HPV negative for treatment with a therapy comprising an agent that
     specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.       In one embodiment the determining
 10  comprises determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor sample
     obtained from the patient, wherein the presence of p 16 INK4A indicates that the patient
     is HPV positive and the absence of p 16 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV
     negative.    In one embodiment, the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide can be an antibody to EGFr. In one embodiment the antibody to EGFr is
 15  panitumumab. In a further embodiment the determining the presence or absence of
     p16INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to
     identify the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a sample of the tumor. In a further
     embodiment the tumor is a locally advanced HNSCC tumor, and in still further
     embodiments the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor or a larynx tumor, or a tumor of
20   the oral cavity, or a tumor of the hypopharynx. In various embodiments the tumor is a
     locally advanced tumor. In other embodiments the tumor is a recurrent metastatic
     tumor.
             In a further aspect a method of treating a patient having a tumor is provided.
     In one embodiment the method comprises (a) determining whether the patient's tumor
25   is HPV positive or HPV negative; and (b) if the patient's tumor is HPV negative,
     administering to the patient an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
     In one embodiment the determining comprises determining the presence or absence of
     p16INK4A in a tumor sample obtained from the patient, wherein the presence of
     p16INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the absence of p 16 INK4A
30   indicates that the patient is HPV negative.       In one embodiment, the agent that
     specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide can be an antibody to EGFr.            In one
     embodiment the antibody to EGFr is panitumumab.           In a further embodiment the
                                                 6

WO 2013/066491                                                               PCT/US2012/054137
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an
     immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p16Ni4An
     a sample of the tumor. In a further embodiment the tumor is a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor, and in still further embodiments the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor
  5  or a larynx tumor, or a tumor of the oral cavity, or a tumor of the hypopharynx. In
     various embodiments the tumor is a locally advanced tumor. In other embodiments
     the tumor is a recurrent metastatic tumor. In another embodiment the method further
     comprises administering chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds
     to an EGFr polypeptide.
 10            In a still further aspect a method of treating a patient having a tumor that has
     been determined to be HPV negative is provided. In one embodiment the method
     comprises administering to the patient an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide. In one embodiment the determining comprises determining the presence
     or absence of p16INK4A in a tumor sample obtained from the patient, wherein the
 15  presence of p16INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the absence of
     p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV negative. In one embodiment, the agent
     that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide can be an antibody to EGFr. In one
     embodiment the antibody to EGFr is panitumumab.              In a further embodiment the
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an
20   immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 16 INK4A in
     a sample of the tumor. In a further embodiment the tumor is a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor, and in still further embodiments the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor
     or a larynx tumor, or a tumor of the oral cavity, or a tumor of the hypopharynx. In
     various embodiments the tumor is a locally advanced tumor. In other embodiments
25   the tumor is a recurrent metastatic tumor. In another embodiment the method further
     comprises administering chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds
     to an EGFr polypeptide.
               In yet a further aspect, a method of prolonging the progression-free and/or
     overall survival of a patient having a tumor is provided.          In one embodiment the
30   method comprises (a) determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or
     HPV negative; and (b) administering an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide to the patient if the patient's tumor is HPV negative. In one embodiment
                                                   7

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     the determining comprises determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK 4 A in a tumor
     sample obtained from the patient, wherein the presence of p16INK4A indicates that the
     patient is HPV positive and the absence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV
     negative.    In one embodiment, the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
  5  polypeptide can be an antibody to EGFr. In one embodiment the antibody to EGFr is
     panitumumab. In a further embodiment the determining the presence or absence of
     p16INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay to
     identify the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a sample of the tumor. In a further
     embodiment the tumor is a locally advanced HNSCC tumor, and in still further
 10  embodiments the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor or a larynx tumor, or a tumor of
     the oral cavity, or a tumor of the hypopharynx. In various embodiments the tumor is a
     locally advanced tumor. In other embodiments the tumor is a recurrent metastatic
     tumor. In one embodiment the method further comprises administering chemotherapy
     in addition to the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
 15          In another aspect a method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor will
     benefit from treatment with an EGFr inhibitor is provided. In one embodiment the
     method comprises determining whether the patient's tumor HPV is negative.
             In a further aspect a method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor
     will benefit from treatment with an EGFr inhibitor is provided. In one embodiment
20   the method comprises determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
             Figure 1 is a Kaplan-Meier survival curve showing the effect on overall
     survival of patients receiving panitumumab and chemotherapy versus chemotherapy
25   alone in HPV negative subjects.
             Figure 2 is a Kaplan-Meier survival curve showing the effect on overall
     survival of patients receiving panitumumab and chemotherapy versus chemotherapy
     alone in HPV positive subjects.
                                                  8

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
             Figure 3 is a Kaplan-Meier survival curve showing the effect on progression
     free  survival   of patients    receiving   panitumumab     and    chemotherapy    versus
     chemotherapy alone in HPV negative subjects.
             Figure 4 is a Kaplan-Meier survival curve showing the effect on progression
  5  free  survival   of patients    receiving   panitumumab     and    chemotherapy    versus
     chemotherapy alone in HPV positive subjects.
             Figure 5 is a plot showing the effect of HPV status on overall survival.
             Figure 6 is a plot showing the effect of HPV status on progression-free
     survival.
 10
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             All references cited herein, including patents, patent applications, papers,
     textbooks, and the like, and the references cited therein, to the extent that they are not
     already, are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for any purpose.
 15  In the event that one or more of the documents incorporated by reference defines a
     term that contradicts that term's definition in the instant disclosure, this disclosure
     controls. The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and
     are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described.
20                                           Definitions
             Unless otherwise defined, scientific and technical terms used in connection
     with the present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by
     those of ordinary skill in the art.     Further, unless otherwise required by context,
     singular terms shall include pluralities and plural terms shall include the singular.
25           Generally, nomenclatures utilized in connection with, and techniques of, cell
     and tissue culture, molecular biology, and protein and oligo- or polynucleotide
     chemistry and hybridization described herein are those well known and commonly
                                                  9

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
     used in the art. Standard techniques are used for recombinant DNA, oligonucleotide
     synthesis, and tissue culture and transformation (e.g., electroporation, lipofection).
     Enzymatic reactions, purification and analytical techniques are performed according
     to the manufacturer's      or service provider's specifications        or as commonly
  5  accomplished in the art or as described herein.          The foregoing techniques and
     procedures are generally performed according to conventional methods well known in
     the art and as described in various general and more specific references that are cited
     and discussed throughout the present specification.         See, e.g., Sambrook et al.,
     Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2d ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
 10  Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1989)), which is incorporated herein by reference.
     The nomenclatures utilized in connection with, and the laboratory procedures and
     techniques of, analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal and
     pharmaceutical chemistry described herein are those well known and commonly used
     in the art. Standard techniques are used for chemical syntheses, chemical analyses,
 15  pharmaceutical preparation, formulation, and delivery, and treatment of patients.
             Following standard convention, as used herein the terms "a" and "an" mean
     "one or more" unless context or explicit verbiage dictate otherwise.
              In the instant disclosure, the term "or" means "and/or" unless stated
     otherwise. In the context of a multiple dependent claim, the use of "or" refers back to
20   more than one preceding independent or dependent claim in the alternative only.
     Furthermore, the use of the term "including", as well as other forms, such as
     "includes" and "included", is not limiting.        Also, terms such as "element" or
     "component" encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and
     elements and components that comprise more than one subunit unless specifically
25   stated otherwise.
             As used herein, the term "specific binding agent" refers to a natural or non
     natural molecule that specifically binds to a target.     Examples of specific binding
     agents include, but are not limited to, proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, carbohydrates,
     lipids, and small molecule compounds. In certain embodiments, a specific binding
30   agent is an antibody, which can be a human antibody, a humanized antibody or
     another form of antibody, such as a chimeric antibody.          In other embodiments a
                                                 10

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
     specific binding agent is a peptibody. In certain embodiments, a specific binding
     agent is an antigen binding region which can, but need not, be derived from an
     antibody.
              As used herein, the term "agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
  5  polypeptide" refers to a specific binding agent that specifically binds any portion of
     an EGFr polypeptide. In certain embodiments, a specific binding agent to an EGFr
     polypeptide is an antibody to an EGFr polypeptide, which can be a human antibody, a
     humanized antibody or another form of a chimeric antibody. In certain embodiments,
     a specific binding agent to an EGFr polypeptide is an antigen binding region which
 10  can, but need not, be derived from an antibody. In certain embodiments, a specific
     binding agent to an EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.                   In certain
     embodiments, a specific binding agent to an EGFr polypeptide is Vectibix@
     (panitumumab) and variants and equivalents thereof. In other examples, a specific
     binding agent to an EGFr polypeptide is cetuximab (Erbitux@), Iressa* (gefitinib),
 15  Tarceva* (erlotinib), Tykerb* (lapatinib), Caprelsa* (vandetanib), zalutumumab
     (GenMab),        nimotuzumab      (YM      Biosciences),   and     matuzumab       (Merck
     Serono/Takeda),       afatinib (Boehringer-Ingelheim),   neratinib   (Pfizer),  canertinib
     (PD183805, Pfizer), AP26113 (Ariad), AEE788 (Novartis), BMS-599626 (AC480,
     Bristol-Myers Squibb), XL-647 (Exelixis), natural EGFr inhibitors such as potato
20   carboxypeptidase inhibitor (PCI) and variants and equivalents of any of these
     molecules.     It will be appreciated that an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide, may include dual inhibitors (such as recited herein) that possess
     specificity to EGFr and at least one additional desired target.
25            As used herein, the term "specifically binds" refers to the ability of a specific
     binding agent to bind to a target with greater affinity than it binds to a non-target. In
     certain embodiments, specific binding refers to binding for a target with an affinity
     that is at least 10, 50, 100, 250, 500, or 1000 times greater than the affinity for a non
     target. In certain embodiments, affinity is determined by an affinity ELISA assay. In
30   certain embodiments, affinity is determined by a BIAcoreTM assay.               In certain
     embodiments, affinity is determined by a kinetic method. In certain embodiments,
     affinity is determined by an equilibrium/solution method. In certain embodiments, an
                                                  11

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
     antibody is said to specifically bind an antigen when the dissociation constant
     between the antibody and one or more of its recognized epitopes is 1IPM, preferably
        100 nM and most preferably     10 nM.
             As used herein, the term "antibody" refers to both an intact antibody and an
  5  antigen binding fragment thereof which competes with the intact antibody for specific
     binding to a target. An "antigen binding fragment thereof," when used in the context
     of an antibody, means a portion or fragment of an intact antibody molecule that
     retains the antigen-binding function.        Binding fragments can be produced by
     recombinant DNA techniques, or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact
 10  antibodies such as by cleavage with papain. Binding fragments include Fab, Fab',
     F(ab')2, Fv, single-chain antibodies ("scFv"), Fd', Fd fragments and fragments
     comprising a variable region of an antibody.       Methods for producing the various
     fragments from monoclonal antibodies are well known to those skilled in the art (see,
     e.g., Pluckthun, (1992) Immunol. Rev. 130:151-188).       In the context of the instant
 15  disclosure, an antibody is designated as "substantially inhibiting adhesion of a
     receptor to a counterreceptor" (e.g., EGF to EGFr) when an excess of antibody
     reduces the quantity of receptor bound to counterreceptor by at least about 20%, 40%,
     60%, or 80%, and more preferably at least about 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or
     99% as measured in an in vitro competitive binding assay.
20           An "isolated" antibody or agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide
     is an antibody or agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide that has been
     identified and separated and/or recovered from a component of the environment in
     which it is synthesized (e.g., a CHO cell).          Contaminant components of the
     environment in which it is synthesized include materials which would interfere with
25   diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody, and may include enzymes, hormones,
     and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In preferred embodiments, the
     antibody will be purified (1) to greater than 95% by weight of antibody as determined
     by the Lowry method, and terminal or internal amino acid sequencing by use of a
     spinning cup sequenator; or (2) to homogeneity by SDS-PAGE under reducing or
30   nonreducing conditions using Coomassie blue or, preferably, silver stain. An isolated
     antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one
                                                 12

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     component of the antibody's natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily, but
     not necessarily, an isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.
             An "Fv" or "Fv fragment" of an antibody, including an agent that specifically
     binds to an EGFr polypeptide, is the minimum fragment of the antibody comprising a
  5  complete antigen-recognition and binding site. In a two-chain Fv species, this region
     comprises a dimer of one heavy- and one light-chain variable domain in tight, non
     covalent association. In a single-chain Fv species, one heavy- and one light-chain
     variable domain can be covalently linked by a flexible peptide linker such that the
     light and heavy chains can associate in a "dimeric" structure analogous to that in a
 10  two-chain Fv species. It is in this configuration that the three CDRs of each variable
     domain interact to define an antigen-binding site on the surface of the VH-VL dimer.
     Collectively, the six CDRs confer antigen-binding specificity on the antibody.
     However, even a single variable domain (or half of an Fv comprising only three
     CDRs specific for an antigen) has the ability to recognize and bind antigen, although
 15  at a lower affinity than the entire binding site.
             The term "hypervariable region" of an antibody, including an agent that
     specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide, means the amino acid residues of an
     antibody which are responsible for antigen-binding.          The hypervariable region
     generally comprises amino acid residues from a "complementarity determining
20   region" or "CDR" (e.g., residues 24-34 (LI), 50-62 (L2), and 89-97 (L3) in the light
     chain variable domain and 31-55 (HI), 50-65 (H2) and 95-102 (H3) in the heavy
     chain variable domain, as defined by Kabat et al., Sequences of Proteins of
     Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health,
     Bethesda, MD. (1991)) and/or those residues from a "hypervariable loop" (e.g.,
25   residues 26-32 (LI), 50-52 (L2) and 91-96 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and
     26-32 ((HI), 53-55 (H2) and 96-101 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain, as
     defined by Chothia & Lesk J. Mol. Biol 196:901-917 (1987)). "Framework Region"
     or "FR" residues are those variable domain residues other than the hypervariable
     region residues as herein defined. It is noted that the residues recited as defining
30   CDRs and hypervariable loop are provided above using the numbering system of
     Kabat et al. and Chothia & Lesk, these and other systems for defining CDRs and
                                                 13

WO 2013/066491                                                                       PCT/US2012/054137
     various other features of an antibody (e.g., the AHo system, Honegger & Pluckthun,
     (2001) J. Mol. Biol. 309:657-70) can be employed interchangeably.
              The term "complementarity determining regions" or "CDRs," when used
     herein, refers to those parts of an antibody, including an agent that specifically binds
  5  to an EGFr polypeptide, that make contact with a specific ligand and determine its
     specificity. The CDRs of antibodies are the most variable part of the protein, giving
     antibodies    their diversity, and are carried on six loops at the distal end of the
     antibody's variable domains, three loops coming from each of the two variable
     domains of the antibody.
 10           The term "epitope" includes any protein determinant capable of specific
     binding to an immunoglobulin and/or T-cell receptor. Epitopic determinants usually
     consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino acids or
     sugar side      chains    and    usually    have    specific     three      dimensional   structural
     characteristics, as well as specific charge characteristics.
 15           The term "agent" is used herein to denote a chemical compound, a mixture of
     chemical compounds, a biological macromolecule (such as an antibody or other agent
     that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide), or an extract made from biological
     materials.
              As used herein, the terms "label" or "labeled" refers to incorporation of a
20   detectable marker, e.g., by incorporation of a radiolabeled amino acid or by
     attachment to a polypeptide of biotinyl moieties that can be detected by marked avidin
     (e.g., streptavidin containing a fluorescent marker or enzymatic activity that can be
     detected by optical or colorimetric methods) or by attachment to an antibody that is
     specific for a marker to be studied (e.g., p16INK4 A). In certain situations, the label or
25   marker can also be therapeutic.           Various methods of labeling polypeptides and
     glycoproteins are known in the art and may be used.                        Examples of labels for
     polypeptides include, but are not limited to, the following: radioisotopes or
                            3    14    15    35    90    99     111      12      13
     radionuclides (e.g.,     H,    C,    N,    S,    Y,    Tc,     In,     51,   1), fluorescent labels
     (e.g., FITC, rhodamine, lanthanide phosphors), enzymatic labels (e.g., horseradish
30   peroxidase, P-galactosidase, luciferase, alkaline phosphatase), chemiluminescent
                                                      14

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     groups, biotinyl groups, and predetermined polypeptide epitopes recognized by a
     secondary reporter (e.g., leucine zipper pair sequences, binding sites for secondary
     antibodies, metal binding domains, epitope tags). In some embodiments, labels are
     attached by spacer arms of various lengths to reduce potential steric hindrance.
  5          The term "pharmaceutical agent or drug" as used herein refers to a chemical
     compound or composition capable of inducing a therapeutic effect (preferably a
     desired therapeutic effect) when properly administered to a patient. Other chemistry
     terms herein are used according to conventional usage in the art, as exemplified by
     The McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Chemical Terms (Parker, S., Ed., McGraw-Hill, San
 10  Francisco (1985)), incorporated herein by reference).
             The term "antineoplastic agent" is used herein to refer to agents that have the
     functional property of inhibiting a development or progression of a neoplasm in a
     human, particularly a malignant (cancerous) lesion, such as a carcinoma, sarcoma,
     lymphoma, or leukemia.         Inhibition of metastasis is frequently a property of
 15  antineoplastic  agents.     In certain    embodiments,    an antineoplastic    agent is
     panitumumab.
             As used herein, "substantially pure" means an object species is the
     predominant species present (i.e., on a molar basis it is more abundant than any other
     individual species in the composition), and preferably a substantially purified fraction
20   is a composition wherein the object species comprises at least about 50 percent (on a
     molar basis) of all macromolecular species present. Generally, a substantially pure
     composition will comprise more than about 80 percent of all macromolecular species
     present in the composition, more preferably more than about 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%,
     97%, 98%, or 99%.        Most preferably, the object species is purified to essential
25   homogeneity (contaminant species cannot be detected in the composition by
     conventional detection methods) wherein the composition consists essentially of a
     single macromolecular species.
             As used herein, the term "patient" includes human and animal subjects.
             The terms "mammal" and "animal" for purposes of treatment refers to any
30   animal classified as a mammal, including humans, domestic and farm animals, and
                                                15

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     zoo, sports, or pet animals, such as dogs, horses, cats, cows, etc.       Preferably, the
     mammal is human.
             The term "disease state" refers to a physiological state of a cell or of a whole
     mammal in which an interruption, cessation, or disorder of cellular or body functions,
  5  systems, or organs has occurred.
             The terms "treat" or "treatment" refer to both therapeutic treatment and
     prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to prevent or slow down
     (lessen) an undesired physiological change or disorder, such as the development or
     spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention, beneficial or desired clinical results
 10  include, but are not limited to, alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of extent of
     disease, stabilized (i.e., not worsening) state of disease, delay or slowing of disease
     progression, amelioration or palliation of the disease state, and remission (whether
     partial or total), whether detectable or undetectable.      "Treatment" can also mean
     prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.
 15  Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as
     well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition
     or disorder is to be prevented.
             The term "responsive" as used herein means that a patient or tumor shows a
     response after administering an agent, according to the RECIST (Response Evaluation
20   Criteria in Solid Tumors) schedule. The response can be a complete response or a
     partial response.   The term "nonresponsive" as used herein means that a patient or
     tumor shows stable disease or progressive disease after administering an agent,
     according to RECIST. RECIST is described, e.g., in Therasse et al., (2000) J. Nati.
     CancerInst. 92(3): 205-216, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
25   Exemplary agents include specific binding agents to an EGFr polypeptide, including
     but not limited to, antibodies that specifically bind EGFr.
             A "disorder" is any condition that would benefit from one or more treatments.
     This includes chronic and acute disorders or disease including those pathological
     conditions which predispose the mammal to the disorder in question. Non-limiting
30   examples of disorders to be treated herein include benign and malignant tumors,
     leukemias, and lymphoid malignancies.           A preferred disorder to be treated in
                                                  16

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
     accordance with the present invention is a malignant tumor, including tumors of the
     oral cavity, pharynx, larynx or hypopharynx.
             A "disease or condition related to an EGFr polypeptide" includes one or more
     of the following: a disease or condition caused by an EGFr polypeptide; a disease or
  5  condition contributed to by an EGFr polypeptide; and a disease or condition that is
     associated with the presence of an EGFr polypeptide.        In certain embodiments, a
     disease or condition related to an EGFr polypeptide is a cancer. Exemplary cancers
     include, but are not limited to, tumors of the oral cavity, pharynx, larynx or
     hypopharynx.
 10          In "combined therapy," patients are treated with a specific binding agent for a
     target antigen in combination with a chemotherapeutic or antineoplastic agent and/or
     radiation therapy.      In certain embodiments,       the specific binding     agent is
     panitumumab. Protocol designs will address effectiveness as assessed by reduction in
     tumor mass as well as the ability to reduce usual doses of standard chemotherapy.
 15  These dosage reductions will allow additional and/or prolonged therapy by reducing
     dose-related toxicity of the chemotherapeutic agent.
             "Monotherapy" refers to the treatment of a disorder by administering
     immunotherapy      to  patients   without     an accompanying    chemotherapeutic     or
     antineoplastic agent. In certain embodiments, monotherapy comprises administering
20   panitumumab in the absence of a chemotherapeutic or antineoplastic agent and/or
     radiation therapy.
             As used herein, the term "HPV positive" means uniform staining of 10% or
     more tumor cells in a sample obtained from a subject having a HNSCC tumor in an
     IHC assay comprising a monoclonal antibody reagent that specifically binds p 16 INK4A
25   See, e.g., Klussmann et al. (2003) and Belgum et al. (2005). In a specific embodiment
     context, the term denotes a score of .10 percent positive uniform staining in a formalin
     fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) sample obtained from a patient as determined by the
     CINtecTM Histology kit manufactured and sold by mtm Laboratories of Heidelberg,
     Germany. A variety of other HPV detection kits are commercially available, as will
30   be appreciated by those of skill in the art.
                                                  17

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
             As used herein, the term "HPV negative" means rare focal staining or difuse
     staining of less than 10% of the HNSCC tumor cells in a sample obtained from a
     subject having a HNSCC tumor in an IHC assay comprising a reagent that specifically
     binds p 16 NK4A. In a specific embodiment, the term denotes staining of less than 10%
  5  in a sample obtained from a patient as determined by the CINtecTM Histology kit
     manufactured and sold by mtm Laboratories of Heidelberg, Germany.
             As used herein, the term "HNSCC tumor" means a squamous cell or basaloid
     tumor that arises in the head or neck region and includes tumors of the nasal cavity,
     sinuses, lips, mouth and oral cavity, salivary glands, pharynx, or larynx.
 10          As used herein, the term "EGFr polypeptide" means a polypeptide, or variant
     thereof, comprising a 170 kDa transmembrane cell surface glycoprotein, triggers a
     cascade of cellular biochemical events, including EGFr autophosphorylation and
     internalization, which culminates in cell proliferation (Ullrich et al., Cell 61:203-212,
     1990).
 15          As used herein, the term "p16 14A, means a polypeptide, or variant thereof,
     comprising the amino acid sequence of Genbank Accession Number GI:4502749.
             As used herein, the term "cancer" means an disorder attributable to undesired
     cell growth, and is characterized by the presence of an undesired tumor. It is noted
     that the term "cancer" encompasses conditions in which the undesried cell growth has
20   formed a tumor, as well as conditions of undesired cell growth in which a tumor is
     absent or has not yet developed. The term specifically includes benign and malignant
     tumors, leukemias, and lymphoid malignancies, in particular breast, rectal, ovarian,
     stomach, endometrial, salivary gland, kidney, colon, thyroid, pancreatic, prostate or
     bladder cancer. In certain embodiments a cancer is a disease or condition caused by
25   an EGFr polypeptide, a disease or condition contributed to by an EGFr polypeptide
     and/or a disease or condition that is associated with the presence of an EGFr
     polypeptide.    In certain embodiments, a disease or condition related to an EGFr
     polypeptide is a cancer, such as non small cell lung carcinoma, breast, colon, rectum,
                                                 18

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
     gastric, brain, bladder, head and neck, ovarian, prostate carcinomas, or a HNSCC
     tumor, such as a tumor of the larynx, oropharynx, pharynx, or oral cavity.
  5                                   Initial Considerations
             Provided herewith are methods directed to a patient having a patient having a
     tumor, and in a particular aspect, a patient having an HNSCC tumor, notably a locally
     advanced HNSCC tumor. Such tumors include oropharangeal tumors, tumors of the
     larynx, tumors of the oral cavity and tumors of the hypopharynx.       Such tumors are
 10  routinely identified by practitioners in the field of oncology, such as physicians,
     medical oncologists, histopathologists and oncologic clinicians. Although incidence
     of these types of tumors is often correlated with tobacco use, particularly cigarette
     smoking, there is no requirement in the disclosed methods that a patient have used
     tobacco and therefore any patient having a tumor (such as a HNSCC tumor) that is
 15  HPV negative may benefit from the disclosed methods. There is no requirement as to
     the stage of the patient's tumor; the tumor can be at any stage of growth, for example
     T2, T3 or T4. The tumor can also exist at any stage of the nodal stage, for example
     NO, N1, N2a, N2b, N2c or N3.         Further, the tumor can be staged as such by any
     system, for example the AJCC system or the TNM staging system.
20           As noted herein, the term "patient" refers to any organism having a patient
     having a tumor, and in a particular aspect, a patient having a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor. Preferably the patient is a mammal and more preferably the patient is
     a human. There is no age restriction on the term "patient," and thus a patient can be
     an adult male or female, or a male or female child of any age, including infants.
25   Further, a patient can be of any race.
             The disclosed methods also relate to therapeutic treatment of such a patient
     with an agent that specifically binds to an EGFreceptor polypeptide. Any type of
     agent can be employed, with the proviso that the agent specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide.   Such agents can be biologics, many of which are commonly used in
30   treatment regimens directed to such tumors.         A non-limiting list of such agents
     includes panitumumab (Vectibix@), cetuximab (Erbitux@), Iressa@ (gefitinib),
                                                 19

WO 2013/066491                                                          PCT/US2012/054137
     Tarceva@ (erlotinib), Tykerb@ (lapatinib), Caprelsa@ (vandetanib), zalutumumab
     (GenMab),      nimotuzumab       (YM     Biosciences),   and     matuzumab     (Merck
     Serono/Takeda),     afatinib  (Boehringer-Ingelheim),  neratinib  (Pfizer), canertinib
     (PD183805, Pfizer), AP26113 (Ariad), AEE788 (Novartis), BMS-599626 (AC480,
  5  Bristol-Myers Squibb), XL-647 (Exelixis), and natural EGFr inhibitors such as potato
     carboxypeptidase inhibitor (PCI).
             Responsiveness or nonresponsiveness to treatment with a specific binding
     agent to an EGFr polypeptide can be determined using any established criteria. In a
     specific example, responsiveness or nonresponsiveness can be determined using the
 10  widely adopted RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria.
     See, e.g., Therasse et al., supra, which is incorporated by reference herein for any
     purpose.    Complete response and partial response according to RECIST are both
     considered to be responsive to treatment with a specific binding agent to an EGFr
     polypeptide.    Stable disease and progressive disease are both considered to be
 15  nonresponsive to treatment with a specific binding agent to an EGFr polypeptide.
             All of the disclosed methods can be supplemented as desired. For example,
     the disclosed methods can optionally additionally comprise making a determination of
     the responsiveness of a patient having a patient having a tumor, and in a particular
     aspect, a patient having a locally advanced HNSCC tumor to therapy comprising an
20   agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.    Such a determination can be
     made using the RECIST criteria, as described herein.
             In another aspect, the disclosed methods can be supplemented by adjusting the
     therapy of a patient having a patient having a tumor, and in a particular aspect, a
     patient having a locally advanced HNSCC tumor based on an evaluation of the results
25   of the method. In one embodiment, a patient not receiving therapy comprising an
     agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide can be placed on such a regimen,
     based on the establishment that the patient's tumor is HPV negative.           In one
     embodiment the therapy can comprise administering an agent that specifically binds
     to an EGFr polypeptide (such as Vectibix@) at a dosage of 6 mg/kg every 14 days as
30   an intravenous infusion over 60 minutes or 90 minutes, depednign on the amount of
     the agent provided.
                                                20

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
               In still another aspect, it may be determined that, based on an assessment of
     the HPV status of the tumor, a patient having a patient having a tumor, and in a
     particular aspect, a patient having a locally advanced HNSCC tumor receiving therapy
     comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide would benefit
  5  from a regimen of therapeutics comprising therapeutics in addition to the patient's
     current regimen of an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
               It is noted that there are different forms of HNSCC tumors, which are often
     categorized by the site within the upper aeorodigestive tract that these tumors arise
     including oropharangeal tumors, larynx tumors, tumors of the oral cavity, and tumors
 10  of the hypopharynx. As used herein, the term "HNSCC tumor" encompasses all of
     these types of tumors. This includes kertininzing, mixed and nonkertinizing
     morphologic varients Thus, when determining if a locally advanced or recurrent
     metastatic HNSCC tumor is positive or negative, the determination can be performed
     on any type of locally advancedor recurrent metastatic HNSCC tumor.
 15
          Method Of Predicting Whether A Patient Having a Tumor, for Example, a
           HNSCC Tumor, Will Benefit From Treatment Comprising an Agent That
                             Specifically Binds to an EGFr Polypeptide
               HPV infection of HNSCC marked by the upregulated expression of the protein
20   p 1 6ink4A has been identified as a potential prognostic marker in locally advanced
     NHSCC (see, e.g., Ang et al., (2010) N. Engl. J Med. 363:24-35). Until the instant
     disclosure, however, HPV has not been ascribed a treatment response predictive role,
     particularly in the area of EGFr inhibitor-based therapies. Accordingly, in one aspect
     of the instant disclosure a method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor, and
25   in a particular aspect, a patient having a HNSCC tumor, will benefit from treatment
     comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide is provided. In one
     embodiment the method comprises determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV
     positive or HPV negative, wherein if the patient's tumor is HPV negative the patient
     is predicted to benefit from treatment with an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
30   polypeptide.
                                                   21

WO 2013/066491                                                              PCT/US2012/054137
              Initially the patient's tumor is determined to be HPV positive or HPV
     negative.     In order to make the determination, any convenient method can be
     employed.       For example, techniques as varied as IHC, FISH, qPCR or a mass
     spectrometry-based approach can be employed. Most often, it will be necessary to
  5  obtain a sample of the patient's tumor and perform the determination in an in vitro
     setting, for example after preparing the sample for testing using a formalin fixed
     paraffin embedded (FFPE) sample.
              In various embodiments of the disclosed method, the determination of whether
     a patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV negative can be made on the basis of an
 10  evaluation of any one or combination of HPV markers associated with the tumor.
     One particularly useful marker is p16INK4A. This marker is indicative of the presence
     of HPV, and is readily detectable using a variety of approaches. Other markers that
     can be used to indicate the presence or absence of HPV include HPV E7.
              In one specific embodiment, the presence or absence of p16INK4A can be used
 15  to determine whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative. If the patient
     expresses p 1 6INK4A the patient is designated as HPV positive; if the patient does not
     express p 1 6INK4A, the patient is designated as HPV negative. The presence or absence
     of p 1 6 INK4A can be readily determined using a commercially available kit or
     monoclonal or polyclonal antibody of the requiste specificicity . For example, the
20   CINtec@ Histology Kit (mtm Laboratories AG, Heidelberg, Germany) can be
     employed to identify p1     6 INK4A. The CINtec@ Histology Kit is an IHC kit designed
     and labeled for the detection of p1 6 INK4A in the context of cervical cancer. When such
     a kit is used, it can be validated for use on HNSCC tumors by an independent
     laboratory.     Alternatively, a sample of the patient's tumor can be supplied to a
25   provider which can perform an IHC assay and report the results.            In yet another
     example, an anti-p16INK4 A antibody can be generated and used as a component of an
     IHC procedure.
              The determination of whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative
     based on the pattern and distribution of p 1 6ink4A protein can be made on the basis of
30   scoring guidelines.       The guidelines can be quantitative, semi-quantitative        or
     qualitative.     In one example, when p 16 INK4A is used as a marker and the CINtec@
                                                  22

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     Histology Kit is employed to determine the presence of the marker, the CINtec@
     Staining Atlas (CINtec@ p16INK4A Staining Atlas, Trunk et al., mtm Laboratories AG,
     Heidleberg, Germany) can be used to identify HPV positive and HPV negative
     tumors. Alternatively, a set of scoring guidelines can be established using p16in      4a
  5  staining patterns as observed in a reference population of          SCCHN      evaluated
     traditional histological methodologies or molecular probes for the espression mRNA
     transcribed from the HPV genes      E6 and E7.
             As demonstrated by the data presented in the Examples, patients whose tumor
     was HPV negative and who received therapy comprising an agent that specifically
 10  binds to an EGFr polypeptide showed an enhancement in progression-free survival
     and in overall survival. Thus, if the patient's tumor (e.g., a HNSCC tumor) is HPV
     negative the patient is predicted to benefit from treatment with an agent that
     specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
 15     Method of Prolonging the Overall Survival of a Patient Having a Tumor, for
                                   Example a HNSCC Tumor
             As demonstrated by the data presented in the Examples provided herein,
     patients whose tumor was HPV negative and who received therapy comprising an
     agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide showed an enhancement in
20   overall survival, as well as in progression-free survival.     Accordingly, in another
     aspect of the instant disclosure a method of prolonging the overall survival of a
     patient having a a tumor, and in a particular aspect, a patient having locally advanced
     HNSCC or recurrent or metastatic tumor is provided. In one embodiment, the method
     comprises determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV negative,
25   and administering an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide to the
     patient if the patient's tumor is HPV negative, whereby the overall survival and/or
     progression-free survival of the patient is prolonged.
             When performing the method, the patient's tumor status is determined to be
     HPV positive or HPV negative. As is the case with all of the disclosed methods, in
30   order to make the determination, any convenient method known to those skilled in the
                                                 23

WO 2013/066491                                                                PCT/US2012/054137
     art can be employed. For example, techniques as varied as IHC, FISH, qPCR or a
     mass spectrometry-based approach can be employed. Most often, it will be desirable
     to obtain a sample of the patient's tumor and perform the determination in an in vitro
     setting.
  5            In various embodiments of the disclosed method, the determination of whether
     a patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV negative can be made on the basis of an
     evaluation of any one or combination of HPV markers associated with the tumor.
     One particularly useful marker is p16INK4A. This marker is indicative of the presence
     of HPV, and the expression of two described viral oncogenes E6 and E7 and is readily
 10  detectable using a variety of approaches. Other markers that can be used to indicate
     the presence or absence of HPV include HPV E7.
               In one specific embodiment, the presence or absence of p16INK4A can be used
     to determine whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative. If the patient
     expresses p 1 6 INK4A, with the requiste degree and distribution of staining of identifiable
 15  tumor cells the patient is designated as HPV positive; if the patient does not express
     p 1 6 INK4A, the patient is designated as HPV negative.      The presence or absence of
     p 1 6 INK4A can be readily determined using a commercially available kit or a service
     provider.      For example, the CINtec@ Histology Kit (mtm Laboratories AG,
     Heidelberg, Germany) can be employed to idetntify p 1 6 INK4A.               The CINtec@
20   Histology Kit is an IHC kit designed for the detection of p 1 6 INK4A in the context of
     cervical cancer.     When such a kit is used, it can be validated by an independent
     laboratory.     Alternatively, a sample of the patient's tumor can be supplied to a
     provider which can perform an IHC assay and report the results.              In yet another
     example, an anti-p16INK4A antibody can be generated and used as a component of an
25   IHC procedure.
               The determination of whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative
     can be made on the basis of scoring guidelines. The guidelines can be quantitative,
     semi-quantitative or qualitative. In one example, when p1      6 INK4A is used as a marker
     and the CINtec@ Histology Kit is employed to determine the presence of the marker,
30   the CINtec@ Staining Atlas (CINtec@ p16INK4A Staining Atlas, Trunk et al., mtm
     Laboratories AG, Heidleberg, Germany) can be used to identify HPV positive and
                                                  24

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
     HPV negative tumors. Alternatively, a set of scoring guidelines can be established
     using traditional histological methodologies.
              Continuing, if the tumor is HPV negative, an agent that specifically binds to
     an EGFr polypeptide is administered to the patient.          As noted herein, the data
  5  presented in the Examples indicates that when a patient's tumor is HPV negative and
     an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide is administered, the overall
     and/or progression-free survival of the patient is prolonged.
                    Method of Stratifying a Population of Patients Having a
 10                          Tumor, for Example a HNSCC Tumor
              As demonstrated by the data presented in the Examples, patients having a a
     tumor, and in a particular aspect, a patient having locally advanced or recurrent
     metastatic HNSCC tumor that is HPV negative will benefit from a therapy comprising
     an agent that specifically binds to EGFr. Accordingly, it can be desirable to identify
 15  or stratify such patients for treatment with an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide, using HPV status as an indicator. Thus, in another aspect of the current
     disclosure a method of stratifying a population of patients having a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor into groups that will benefit and those that will benefit more from
     therapy comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide is
20   provided.
              When performing the method, the patient's tumor status is determined to be
     HPV positive or HPV negative. As is the case will all of the disclosed methods, in
     order to make the determination, any convenient method can be employed.              For
     example, techniques as varied as IHC, FISH, qPCR or a mass spectrometry-based
25   approach can be employed. Most often, it will be desirable to obtain a sample of the
     patient's tumor and perform the determination in an in vitro setting.
              In various embodiments, the determination of whether a patient's tumor is
     HPV positive or HPV negative can be made on the basis of an evaluation of any one
     or combination of HPV markers associated with the tumor. One particularly useful
                                                 25

WO 2013/066491                                                              PCT/US2012/054137
     marker is p16 INK4A. This marker is indicative of the presence of HPV, and is readily
     detectable using a variety of approaches. Other markers that can be used to indicate
     the presence or absence of HPV include HPV E7.
             In one specific embodiment, the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A can be used
  5  to determine whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative. If the patient
                     INK4
     expresses p16IK4A,      the patient is designated as HPV positive; if the patient does not
                  INK4A
     express p16       A, the patient is designated as HPV negative. The presence or absence
     of p16INK4A can be readily determined using a commercially available kit or a service
     provider.     For example, the CINtec@ Histology Kit (mtm Laboratories AG,
 10  Heidelberg, Germany) can be employed to identify p 1 6 INK4A. The CINtec@ Histology
     Kit is an IHC kit designed for the detection of p 16 INK4A in the context of cervical
     cancer. When such a kit is used, it can be validated by an independent laboratory.
     Alternatively, a sample of the patient's tumor can be supplied to a provider which can
                                                                                             4
     perform an IHC assay and report the results. In yet another example, an anti-p16INK A
 15  antibody can be generated and used as a component of an IHC procedure.
             The determination of whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative
     can be made on the basis of scoring guidelines. The guidelines can be quantitative,
     semi-quantitative or qualitative. In one example, when p 1 6 INK4A is used as a marker
     and the CINtec@ Histology Kit is employed to determine the presence of the marker,
20   the CINtec@ Staining Atlas (CINtec p16INK4A Staining Atlas, Trunk et al., mtm
     Laboratories AG, Heidleberg, Germany) can be used to identify HPV positive and
     HPV negative tumors. Alternatively, a set of scoring guidelines can be established
     using traditional histological methodologies.
              Continuing, patients whose tumors are HPV negative are selected for
25   treatment with a therapy comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide. These patients are expected to benefit more than patients who are HPV
     positive in a therapy comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide. By stratifying a group of patients having a a tumor, and in a particular
     aspect, a patient having locally advanced HNSCC tumor, a medical professional will
30   be able to tailor a therapy to the patient's particular needs and enhances the likelihood
     that the patient will respond positively.
                                                   26

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
      Method of Treating a Patient Having a Tumor, for Example a Locally Advanced
                                           HNSCC Tumor
  5          As described herein and in the Examples, it has been determined that patients
     having a a tumor, and in a particular aspect, a patient having locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor that is HPV negative exhibit an enhancement in overall and/or
     progression-free survival when treated with an agent that specifically binds to an
     EGFr polypeptide. Accordingly, a method of treating such patients is provided. In
 10  one embodiment of a method of treating a patient having a locally advanced HNSCC
     tumor comprises determining the patient's tumor status to be HPV positive or HPV
     negative.   As is the case will all of the disclosed methods, in order to make the
     determination, any convenient method can be employed. For example, techniques as
     varied as IHC, FISH, qPCR or a mass spectrometry-based approach can be employed.
 15  Most often, it will be desirable to obtain a sample of the patient's tumor and perform
     the determination in an in vitro setting.
             In various embodiments, the determination of whether a patient's tumor is
     HPV positive or HPV negative can be made on the basis of an evaluation of any one
     or combination of HPV markers associated with the tumor. One particularly useful
20   marker is p16INK4A. This marker is indicative of the presence of HPV, and is readily
     detectable using a variety of approaches. Other markers that can be used to indicate
     the presence or absence of HPV include HPV E7.
             In one specific embodiment, the presence or absence of p16INK4A can be used
     to determine whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative. If the patient
25   expresses p 1 6INK4A the patient is designated as HPV positive; if the patient does not
                 INK14A
     express p16      A, the patient is designated as HPV negative. The presence or absence
     of p16INK4A can be readily determined using a commercially available kit or a service
     provider.    For example, the CINtec@ Histology Kit (mtm Laboratories AG,
     Heidelberg, Germany) can be employed to idetntify p16            IK4A.   The CINtec@
30   Histology Kit is an IHC kit designed for the detection of p 1 6 INK4A in the context of
                                                  27

WO 2013/066491                                                            PCT/US2012/054137
     cervical cancer. Alternatively, a sample of the patient's tumor can be supplied to a
     provider which can perform an IHC assay and report the results.          In yet another
     example, an anti-p16INK4 A antibody can be generated and used as a component of an
     IHC procedure.
  5          The determination of whether a patient's tumor is HPV positive or negative
     can be made on the basis of scoring guidelines. The guidelines can be quantitative,
     semi-quantitative or qualitative. In one example, when p161K4A is used as a marker
     and the CINtec@ Histology Kit is employed to determine the presence of the marker,
     the CINtec@ Staining Atlas (CINtec@ p16INK4A Staining Atlas, Trunk et al., mtm
 10  Laboratories AG, Heidleberg, Germany) can be used to identify HPV positive and
     HPV negative tumors. Alternatively, a set of scoring guidelines can be established
     using traditional histological methodologies.
             Continuting with the method, if the patient's tumor is HPV negative, the
     patient is administered an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide. As
 15  shown in the data presented herein, patients having tumors that are HPV negative
     show enhancements in overall survival and/or in progression-free survival when
     administered an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide. By performing
     the disclosed method, the medical professional can provide a more efficacious
     treatment regimen to patients suffering from this condition.
20           The method can further comprise a treatment regimen known to be effective
     for the particular agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide. For example,
     in the case of panitumumab, such a regimen can comprise......
                                            EXAMPLES
25           The following examples, including the experiments conducted and results
     achieved are provided for illustrative purpose only and are not to be construed as
     limiting upon the claims. Additional embodiments of the disclosed methods will be
     apparent to those skilled in the art after considering the instant disclosure and the
     following Examples. Accordingly, it is intended that the instant disclosure, including
                                                  28

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
     the following Examples, be considered as providing particular, but non-limiting,
     embodiments of the disclosed methods.
                                              Example 1
  5                        Identification of HPV Positive/Negative Status
              In order to identify HPV status of the subjects taking part in the trial, HNSCC
     tumor samples were acquired from subjects participating in a HNSCC clinical trial
     involving systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy with and without panitumumab              Of the
     657 subjects in the trial, 67%      or 411 subjects provided evaluable archival FFPE
 10  tumor samples containing at least 10 percent tumor cells samples. .
              The demographics and disease characteristics of patients that participated in
     the trial is summarized in Table 1:
                                               Table 1
 15                  Demographics and Disease Characteristics of Patients
                              ITT                   HPV+               HPV
                              Pmab        CT        Pmab       CT      Pmab         CT
                              +    CT    (n     =+      CT    (n   =+       CT     (n=
                              (n     = 330)         (n    =   37)      (n      =   153)
                              327)                  56)                165)
     Sex, male - %            87         87         84        81       87          89
     Race, white - %          82         82         80        86       85          84
     Age, median- yrs         58         59         58        60       57          59
     ECOG 0-%                 30         30         38        38       33          26
     f 10 pack-yrs - %        26         22         43        24       19          15
     >10 pack-yrs - %         61         65         52        57       64          71
     Prior platinum - 39                 34         38        54       40          31
                                                 29

WO 2013/066491                                                          PCT/US2012/054137
                             ITT                 HPV+                HPV
                             Pmab      CT        Pmab       CT       Pmab       CT
                             +    CT (n      =+       CT   (n    =+       CT   (n=
                             (n    = 330)        (n     =  37)       (n     =  153)
                             327)                56)                 165)
     Wt loss 5% - %          81       79         80        81        82        80
     Wt loss > 5% - %        18       21         18        19        18        20
     Region - %
     N/S America             15       17         23        32        15        18
     W Europe                31       35         32        41        34        38
     Asia Pacific            17       13         16        5         16        10
     E Europe                38       35         29        22        35        33
             Tumor specimens were sent to an independent          laboratory for pathology
     evaluation and tumor microarray construction. A single pathologist, with significant
     experience reading squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, examined a
  5  standard   a hemotoxylin and eosin stained      5 micron tissue section       of every
     submitted sample. The pathologic review included: Diagnosis (presence or absence
     of HNSCC); Specimen type (tumor resection/lymph node/metastases (e.g., lung,
     liver)); Histological type (HNSCC (NOS) versus Papillary versus Spindle cell
     (sarcomatoid) versus Basaloid versus other, including adenosquamous; Differentiation
 10  status (well, moderate, poorly, undifferentiated or unable to determine); Tumor
     Borders (infiltrating versus pushing); Inflammatory response; Necrosis, including
     comedo necrosis; and other observations, as applicable. As a result of this analysis, it
     was determined that of the of the 657 subjects in the trial, 67% had samples with
     greater than 10% viable tumor. A tumor microarray set containing 1083 indivdual 1
 15  mm cores was created to facilitate the standardization of the IHC assay         and to
     provide multiple replicates of samples where tumor tissue permitted
             HPV status was measured using the commercially available             CINtecTM
     Histology kit (mtm Laboratories, Heidelberg, Germany). The CINtecTM Histology kit
     is a semi-quantitative, immunocytochemical assay for the evaluation of overexpressed
20   cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p16INK4A protein, in formalin fixed, paraffin
                                              30

WO 2013/066491                                                          PCT/US2012/054137
     embedded tissue sections. The presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A protein is indicative
     that the sample is HPV positive or HPV negative. The antibody clone is E6H4. The
     commercially available kit is FDA cleared and labeled for use in cervical cancer
     tissue.
  5          More specifically, subject tumor specimens were scored positive, negative or
     failed according to a prespecified IHC scoring guideline. Essentially, a subject was
     determined to have a HPV positive tumor (HPV+) when uniform p16INK4A protein
     expression was detected in at least 10% of tumor cells. A subject was determined to
     have a HPV negative tumor (HPV-) when p16INK4A protein was not present or was
 10  observed in less than 10% of tumor cells.
             Prior to using the assay on samples acquired from subjects in the clinical trial,
     a verification of the CINtecTM Histology kit's performance in formalin fixed paraffin
     embedded (FFPE) HNSCC tumor specimens was performed according to Clinical
     Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) regulations. An independent testing
 15  laboratory performed an analytical validation of the CINtecTM Histology kit for use on
     HNSCC and provided a validation package. In addition an immunohistochemical
     scoring guideline was developed and adhered to during sample testing. Samples were
     dichotomously scored as positive or negative based on the results of the validated
     assay.
20           Analysis of the samples for the presence or absence of HPV provided the data
     presented in Table 2:
                                             Table 2
25                                  Results of HPV Analysis
     Tissue Site      All Tumors     HPV          HPV            HPV           HPV
                      N=657          Evaluable    Positive       Negative      Unevaluable
                                    N=377         N=83           N=294         N=280
                                     (57%)                                     (43%)
     Hypopharynx      13%            14%          8%             16%           13%
     Larynx           30%            32%          28%            33%           27%
                                               31

WO 2013/066491                                                          PCT/US2012/054137
     Oral Cavity      29%           27%            19%            29%          32%
     Oropharynx       27%           28%           45%             23%          28%
                                           Example 2
               Effect of HPV Status on Panitumumab Therapy on Overall Survival
  5          The overall survival of HPV positive and HPV negative subjects in the trial
     was examined. Figures 1 and 2 are Kaplan-Meier survival curves summarizing the
     results of the study. A comparison of Figures 1 and 2 shows that subjects whose
     HNSCC tumors were HPV negative that were treated with panitumumab and
     chemotherapy showed an enhancement in overall survival over those subjects whose
 10  HNSCC tumors were HPV positive.
             More particularly, those subjects whose tumors were HPV positive and were
     treated with panitumumab and chemotherapy showed a median overall survival of
     10.9 months, while those subjects whose tumors were HPV negative and were treated
     with panitumumab and chemotherapy showed a median overall survival of 11.8
 15  months. It is also noted that subjects whose tumors were HPV negative and were
     treated with panitumumab and chemotherapy showed an enhancement in median
     overall survival of 3.1 months over those subjects who received chemotherapy alone.
             Independent prognostic factors for overall survival are summarized in Table 3:
20                                           Table 3
                     Independent Prognostic Factors for Overall Survival
                         Factor                            HR               P-value
     HPV Negative        ECOG (0 vs 1/2)
                                                         0.66             0.004
                         Previously CT or RT (yes vs
                                                         1.345            0.078
                         no)
                                               32

WO 2013/066491                                                         PCT/US2012/054137
                         Prior platin (yes vs no)
                                                         1.246           0.097
     HPV Positive        ECOG (0 vs 1/2)
                                                         0.567           0.03
                         Pack-years (>10 vs <=10)
                                                         1.963           0.011
                         >5% invol weight loss last 6
                                                         2.542           0.002
                         mos (yes vs no)
                         Prior platin (yes vs no)
                                                         1.498           0.096
                                            Example 3
           Effect of HPV Status on Panitumumab Therapy on Progression-free Survival
  5          The overall survival of HPV positive and HPV negative subjects in the trial
     was examined. Figures 3 and 4 are Kaplan-Meier survival curves summarizing the
     results of the study. A comparison of Figures 3 and 4 shows that subjects whose
     HNSCC tumors were HPV negative that were treated with panitumumab and
     chemotherapy showed an enhancement in progression-free survival over those
 10  subjects whose HNSCC tumors were HPV positive.
             More particularly, those subjects whose tumors were HPV positive and were
     treated with panitumumab and chemotherapy showed a median progression-free
     survival of 5.5 months, while those subjects whose tumors were HPV negative and
     were treated with panitumumab and chemotherapy showed a median overall survival
 15  of 6.3 months. It is also noted that subjects whose tumors were HPV negative and
     were treated with panitumumab and chemotherapy showed an enhancement in median
     overall survival of 1.2 months over those subjects who received chemotherapy alone.
                                   Summary of Examples 1-3
20           HPV status was determined in 57% of the 657 subjects enrolled in the trial. It
     was determined that 21%       of the HNSCC subjects for which HPV status was
                                                33

WO 2013/066491                                                        PCT/US2012/054137
     determined were found to be HPV positive.      The data shows that treatment with
     panitumumab and chemotherapy improved overall survival in subjects whose tumors
     were determined to be HPV negative over those subjects whose tumors were HPV
     positive by a median of 0.9 months. The data shows that treatment with panitumumab
 5   and chemotherapy improved progression-free survival in subjects whose tumors were
     determined to be HPV negative over those subjects whose tumors were HPV positive
     by a median of 0.8 months.
                                             34

WO 2013/066491                                                              PCT/US2012/054137
                                               CLAIMS
             1.     A method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor will benefit
     from treatment comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide,
     comprising determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV
  5  negative, wherein if the patient's tumor is HPV negative, the patient is predicted to
     benefit from treatment with an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.2.
                    2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises
     determining the presence or absence of p 16 INK 4 A in a tumor sample obtained from the
     patient, wherein the presence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive
 10  and the absence of p 16 INK 4 A indicates that the patient is HPV negative.
             3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the agent that specifically binds to an
     EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.
             4.     The method of claim 3, wherein the antibody to EGFr is panitumumab.
             5.     The method of claim 2, wherein the determining the presence or
 15  absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry
     (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 16 INK4A in a sample of the tumor.
             6.     The method of claim 1, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor.
             7.     The method of claim 6, wherein the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor.
20           8.     The method of claim 6, wherein the tumor is a larynx tumor.
             9.     The method of claim 6, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the oral cavity.
             10.    The method of claim 6, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the
     hypopharynx.
             11.    The method of claims 1 and 6, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
25   tumor.
                                                   35

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
             12.    The method of claims 1 and 6, wherein the tumor is a recurrent
     metastatic tumor.
             13. A method of prolonging the progression-free and/or overall survival of a
     patient having a tumor that has been determined to be HPV negative comprising
  5  administering an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide to the
     patientwhereby the progression-free and/or overall survival of the patient is
     prolonged.
             14.    The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is determined to be HPV
     negative by determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor obtained from
 10  the patient, wherein the absence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV
     negative.
             15.    The method of claim 13, wherein the agent that specifically binds to an
     EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.
             16.    The method of claim 15,         wherein the antibody to EGFr is
 15  panitumumab.
             17.    The method of claim 13, wherein the determining the presence or
     absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry
     (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 1 6 NK4A in a sample of the tumor.
             18.    The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
20   HNSCC tumor.
             19.    The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor.
             20.    The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is a larynx tumor.
             21.    The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the oral
     cavity.
25           22.    The method of claim 13, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the
     hypopharynx.
                                               36

WO 2013/066491                                                              PCT/US2012/054137
             23.      The method of claims 13 and 18, wherein the tumor is a locally
     advanced tumor.
             24.      The method of claims 13 and 18, wherein the tumor is a recurrent
     metastatic tumor.
  5          25.      The method of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises
     administering chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide.
             26.      A method of stratifying a population of patients having a tumor
     comprising:
 10          (a)      determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV
             negative; and
             (b)      selecting patients whose tumors are HPV negative for treatment with a
                      therapy comprising an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
                      polypeptide.
 15          27.      The method of claim 26, wherein the determining comprises
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK 4 A in a tumor obtained from the patient,
     wherein the presence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the
     absence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV negative.
             28.      The method of claim 26, wherein the agent that specifically binds to an
20   EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.
             29.      The method of claim 28, wherein the antibody to EGFr is
     panitumumab.
             30.      The method of claim 26, wherein the determining the presence or
     absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry
25   (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 16 INK 4 A in a sample of the tumor.
                                                   37

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
             31.      The method of claim 26, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor.
             32.      The method of claim 31, wherein the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor.
             33.      The method of claim 31, wherein the tumor is a larynx tumor.
  5          34.      The method of claim 31, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the oral
     cavity.
             35.      The method of claim 31, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the
     hypopharynx.
             36.      The method of claims 26 and 31, wherein the tumor is a locally
 10  advanced tumor.
             37.      The method of claims 26 and 31, wherein the tumor is a recurrent
     metastatic tumor.
             38.      A method of treating a patient having a tumor comprising:
             (a)      determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV
 15  negative; and
             (b)      if the patient's tumor is HPV negative, administering to the patient an
     agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
             39.      The method of claim 38, wherein the determining comprises
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor obtained from the patient,
20   wherein the presence of p16INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the
     absence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV negative.
             40.      The method of claim 38, wherein the agent that specifically binds to an
     EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.
             41.      The method of claim 40, wherein the antibody to EGFr is
25   panitumumab.
                                                   38

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
             42.      The method of claim 38, wherein the determining the presence or
     absence of p16INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry
     (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 16 INK4A in a sample of the tumor.
             43.      The method of claim 38, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
  5  HNSCC tumor.
             44.      The method of claim 43, wherein the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor.
             45.      The method of claim 43, wherein the tumor is a larynx tumor.
             46.      The method of claim 43, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the oral
     cavity.
 10          47.      The method of claim 43, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the
     hypopharynx.
             48.      The method of claims 38 and 43, wherein the tumor is a locally
     advanced tumor.
             49.      The method of claims 38 and 43, wherein the tumor is a recurrent
 15  metastatic tumor.
             50.      The method of claim 38, wherein the method further comprises
     administering chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide.
             51.      A method of treating a patient having a tumor that has been determined
20   to be HPV negative, comprising administering to the patient an agent that specifically
     binds to an EGFr polypeptide.
             52.      The method of claim 51,            wherein the determining comprises
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK 4 A in a tumor obtained from the patient,
     wherein the presence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the
25   absence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV negative.
                                                   39

WO 2013/066491                                                             PCT/US2012/054137
             53.    The method of claim 51, wherein the agent that specifically binds to an
     EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.
             54.    The method of claim 53,         wherein the antibody to EGFr is
     panitumumab or cetuximab.
  5          55.    The method of claim 51, wherein the determining the presence or
     absence of p16INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry
     (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 1 6 1NK4A in a sample of the tumor.
             56.    The method of claim 51, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
     HNSCC tumor.
 10          57.    The method of claim 56, wherein the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor.
             58.    The method of claim 56, wherein the tumor is a larynx tumor.
             59.    The method of claim 56, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the oral
     cavity.
             60.    The method of claim 56, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the
 15  hypopharynx.
             61.    The method of claims 51 and 56, wherein the tumor is a locally
     advanced tumor.
             62.    The method of claims 51 and 56, wherein the tumor is a recurrent
     metastatic tumor.
20           63.    The method of claim 51, wherein the method further comprises
     administering chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide.
             64.    A method of prolonging the progression-free and/or overall survival of
     a patient having a tumor comprising:
25           (a)    determining whether the patient's tumor is HPV positive or HPV
             negative; and
                                               40

WO 2013/066491                                                              PCT/US2012/054137
             (b)      administering an agent that specifically binds to an EGFr polypeptide
                      to the patient if the patient's tumor is HPV negative.
             65.      The method of claim 64, wherein the determining comprises
     determining the presence or absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor obtained from the patient,
  5  wherein the presence of p16INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV positive and the
     absence of p 1 6 INK4A indicates that the patient is HPV negative.
             66.      The method of claim 64, wherein the agent that specifically binds to an
     EGFr polypeptide is an antibody to EGFr.
             67.      The method of claim 66, wherein the antibody to EGFr is
 10  panitumumab.
             68.      The method of claim 64, wherein the determining the presence or
     absence of p 1 6 INK4A in a tumor comprises performing an immunohistochemistry
     (IHC) assay to identify the presence or absence of p 1 6   NK4A in a sample of the tumor.
             69.      The method of claim 64, wherein the tumor is a locally advanced
 15  HNSCC tumor.
             70.      The method of claim 69, wherein the tumor is an oropharangeal tumor.
             71.      The method of claim 69, wherein the tumor is a larynx tumor.
             72.      The method of claim 69, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the oral
     cavity.
20           73.      The method of claim 69, wherein the tumor is a tumor of the
     hypopharynx.
             74.      The method of claims 64 and 69, wherein the tumor is a locally
     advanced tumor.
             75.      The method of claims 64 and 69, wherein the tumor is a recurrent
25   metastatic tumor.
                                                    41

WO 2013/066491                                                           PCT/US2012/054137
             76.    The method of claim 64, wherein the method further comprises
     administering chemotherapy in addition to the agent that specifically binds to an EGFr
     polypeptide.
             77.    A method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor will benefit
  5  from treatment with an EGFr inhibitor comprising determining whether the patient's
     tumor HPV is negative.
             78.    A method of predicting whether a patient having a tumor will benefit
     from treatment with an EGFr inhibitor comprising determining whether the patient's
     tumor is HPV positive.
 10
                                              42

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
