                                    ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to a method for detecting a biomarker selected from
the group consisting of Nucleotide binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis specific protein
Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein Y-linked 2
(TSPY2),   Replication protein A2 (RPA2),       Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase   1
(PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group nucleosome binding
domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1), Rhophilin associated protein 1 (ROPN1, Ropporin),
RNA binding motif protein 46 (RBM46), Proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator
subunit 3 (PSME3),      Keratin  19 (KRT19), Transgelin      (TAGLN), Peroxiredoxin
(PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine monophosphate
dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1), in a sample. The present disclosure provides for the
use of biomarker for the detection of oral cancer in a sample. The detection of the
biomarker helps in early diagnosis of oral cancer.
                                           22

40000
30000
20000
          i.ijiiillllill..iipi~ ililJ
10000
     0111
       1     10         20    30    40
                     FIGURE 1
                        1/5

METHOD FOR DETECTION & DIAGNOSIS OF ORAL CANCER IN A SAMPLE
   FIELD
   The present disclosure relates to a method for detecting a biomarker in a sample.
   ABBREVIATIONS:
   NUBP2: Nucleotide binding protein 2;
 5 TSPY3: Testis specific protein Y-linked 3;
   XAGE4: XAGE-4 protein;
   TSPY2: Testis specific protein Y-linked 2;
   RPA2: Replication protein A2;
   PYCR1: Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase 1;
10 TKI: Thymidine kinase 1;
   HMGN5/NSBP1: High mobility group nucleosome binding domain 5;
   ROPNI: Rhophilin associated protein 1 (Ropporin);
   RBM46: RNA binding motif protein 46;
   PSME3: Proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 3;
15 KRT19: Keratin 19;
   TAGLN: Transgelin;
   PRDX1: Peroxiredoxin;
   S10A9: S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (calgranulin B); and
   IMPDH1: Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1.
                                              2

   DEFINITIONS
   As used in the present disclosure, the following terms are generally intended to have
   the meaning as set forth below, except to the extent that the context in which they
   are used indicate otherwise.
 5 Array: A microarray (also commonly known as DNA chip or biochip) is a collection of
   microscopic spots of antigens or antibodies which are fixed on a solid surface such
   as glass, plastic or silicon chip, for the purpose of detecting antigens/antibodies or
   used to measure the expression levels of a large number of genes simultaneously or
   to genotype multiple regions of a genome.
10 Autoantibody: An autoantibody is an antibody (a type of protein) produced by the
   immune system that is directed against one or more of the individual's own tissues,
   cells, or cell components. The term "autoantibody" refers to antibodies that react with
   self-antigens which may comprise proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, lipids or
   various combinations of these. An autoantibody is one that is produced by an
15 organism in response to constituents, i.e., antigens that form a part of that organism.
   Biomarker: Biomarker is a naturally occurring molecule, gene, or characteristic by
   which a particular pathological or physiological process, disease, etc. can be
   identified. It is a measurable indicator of the severity or presence of some disease,
   normal biological processes, pathogenic processes, or pharmacologic responses to
20 a therapeutic intervention. More generally a biomarker is anything that can be used
   as an indicator of a particular disease state or some other physiological state of an
   organism.
   Immunome: The term "immunome" refers to all the genes and proteins that are
   associated with the immune system.
25 Volcano Plot: The term "volcano plot" refers to a type of scatter-plot that is used to
   identify changes in large data sets composed of replicate data. It plots significance
   versus fold-change on the y and x axes, respectively.
                                               3

   Penetrance-based         threshold analysis: The term "penetrance-based threshold
   analysis" refers to the measurement of likelihood of a given raw fold change being
   true, in order to increase the significance and reliability of result.
   Down-regulation: The term "down-regulation" refers to the process by which
 5 a cell decreases the quantity of a cellular component, such as RNA or protein, in
   response to an external stimulus.
   Up-regulation:      The     term  "up-regulation" refers    to   the   process by which
   a cell increases the quantity of a cellular component, such as RNA or protein, in
   response to an external stimulus.
10 Capture antibody component: The term "capture antibody component" refers a
   primary antibody, which is specific for a target biomarker/molecule and will
   specifically bind to it.
   Detection antibody component: The term "detection antibody component" refers to
   a secondary antibody that will help in production of color in order to easily detect the
15 presence of the target biomarker/molecule.
   BACKGROUND
   Cancer is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to
   invade or spread to other parts of the body. Oral cancer appears as a growth or sore
   in the mouth that does not go away. Oral cancer, which includes cancers of the lips,
20 tongue, cheeks, floor of the mouth, hard and soft palate, sinuses, and pharynx
   (throat), can be life threatening if not diagnosed and treated early. From an
   epidemiological and clinical-pathological perspective, oral cancer can be divided into
   three categories: 1) carcinomas of the oral cavity proper, 2) carcinomas of the lip
   vermilion and 3) carcinomas arising in the oropharynx. Oral cancer tumours arise
25 through a series of molecular mutations that lead to uncontrolled cellular growth from
   hyperplasia to dysplasia to carcinoma in situ followed by invasive carcinoma. Major
   risk factors that cause oral cancer include tobacco and alcohol consumption along
                                                 4

   with environmental and genetics factors. There are four stages of oral cancer.
   Stages 1 and 2 usually involve a small tumor. In these stages, cancer cells have not
   spread to the lymph nodes. Stages 3 and 4 are considered advanced stages of
   cancer. In these stages, tumors are large and the cancer cells have usually spread
 5 to the lymph nodes or other parts of the body. Oral cancers are most often
   discovered only after they have spread to the lymph nodes of the neck. Early
   detection is key to surviving oral cancer, as earlier the stage of diagnosis, the higher
   the chance of survival after treatment. This makes timely diagnosis all the more
   important. Biomarkers are measurable parameters of the human body that serve as
10 indicators of underlying biological or pathological processes. Biomarkers are useful
   in a number of ways including measuring the progression of disease, evaluating the
   most effective therapeutic regimes for a particular cancer type and establishing long
   term susceptibility to cancer or its recurrence. Biomarkers also help in the early
   diagnosis of disease, disease prevention, drug target identification, evaluation of
15 drug response, etc. Despite the spectacular technological advances that have
   allowed the scientific community to measure an ever-expanding list of body
   parameters with greater sensitivity and specificity than ever before, these advances
   have not translated into greater numbers of clinically useful biomarkers, including
   those related to the measurement of immunological function/response of the body in
20 response to a disease state.
   Biomarkers guide patient management in a multitude of settings including screening,
   diagnosis, prognosis, treatment choice and treatment monitoring. They also serve as
   primary sources of efficacy and safety data required by the Food and Drug
   Administration for the approval of new therapies and medical devices. Despite the
25 widespread and ever-growing need for new biomarkers and the large investments
   made in their development by funding agencies and industry, the failure rate for
   biomarker development is extraordinarily high. Despite tens of thousands of reports
   of putative new biomarkers in peer-reviewed literature, only a handful are qualified
   for drug development or approved for clinical use by the FDA and only about 100
30 biomarkers have proven clinically useful and reliable enough to be used in routine
   medical practice.
                                               5

   Detection of diseases such as oral cancers at an early stage is imperative as
   successful treatment often depends on early detection. Also, some oral premalignant
   and early cancerous lesions are not readily detectable by visual inspection.
   Therefore, the integration of early detection and screening based on protein
 5 biomarkers in conjunction with a conventional oral examination is extremely
   important. Protein biomarkers as detection tools are particularly suitable because
   they are responsive to simple blood or saliva tests and such tests are easy to
   administer as opposed to time consuming, difficult, costly and painful tissue biopsies
   that can only be performed by doctors authorized to do the same.
10 Therefore, there is a need for developing clinical tools and applications that comprise
   and utilize single and multiple protein and autoantibody biomarkers having high
   sensitivity and specificity.
   OBJECTS
   Some of the objects of the present disclosure, which at least one embodiment herein
15 satisfies, are as follows:
   It is an object of the present disclosure to ameliorate one or more problems of the
   prior art or to at least provide a useful alternative.
   Another object of the present disclosure is to provide a method for detecting a
   biomarker in a sample.
20 Another object of the present disclosure is to provide single, multiple and a panel of
   protein and autoantibody biomarkers for diagnosing oral cancer.
   Other objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be more apparent from
   the following description, which is not intended to limit the scope of the present
   disclosure.
25
                                                 6

   SUMMARY
   The present disclosure provides a method for detecting at least one biomarker in a
   sample. The method comprises first diluting a sample contacting the at least one
   biomarker with serum albumin buffer to obtain a diluted sample. Contacting the
 5 diluted with a reagent comprising a set of capture antibody component and at least
   one detection antibody component. This is followed by the analysis of the change in
   the intensity of the detection antibody component to detect the presence of the
   biomarker and the extent of its expression.      The capture antibody component is
   capable of binding with the biomarker in one to one, one to many, and many to many
10 correspondences, whereas the detection antibody component is capable of detecting
   the binding of the capture antibody component with the biomarker.
   Typically, the biomarker can be selected from the group consisting of Nucleotide
   binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4
   protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein Y-linked 2 (TSPY2), Replication protein A2
15 (RPA2), Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1),
   High mobility group nucleosome binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1), Rhophilin
   associated protein 1 (ROPN1, Ropporin), RNA binding motif protein 46 (RBM46),
   Proteasome     (prosome, macropain)     activator subunit 3 (PSME3),      Keratin  19
   (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN), Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding
20 protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1).
   The set of capture antibody component comprises antibody against at least one
   biomarker selected from the group consisting of        Nucleotide binding protein 2
   (NUBP2), Testis specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4),
   Testis specific protein Y-linked 2 (TSPY2), Replication protein A2 (RPA2), Pyrroline
25 5-carboxylate reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group
   nucleosome binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1),            Rhophilin associated protein 1
   (ROPN1, Ropporin), RNA binding motif protein 46 (RBM46), Proteasome (prosome,
   macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19 (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN),
                                              7

   Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine
   monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1).
   The present disclosure also provides for the use of biomarker for the detection of
   oral cancer. The biomarker can be at least one selected from the group consisting of
 5 Nucleotide binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3),
   XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein Y-linked 2 (TSPY2), Replication
   protein A2 (RPA2), Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase
   1 (TK1), High mobility group nucleosome binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1),
   Rhophilin associated protein 1 (ROPN1, Ropporin), RNA binding motif protein 46
10 (RBM46), Proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin
   19 (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN), Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding
   protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1).
   The early detection and the determination of the expression level of the biomarkers
   may help in the early diagnosis of oral cancer.
15 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWING
   The present disclosure will now be described with the help of the self-explanatory
   non-limiting accompanying drawing, in which:
   Figure 1 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1)
   across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40) samples;
20 wherein X-axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts normalized
   Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values;
   Figure 2 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of PYCR1        (pyrroline-5
   carboxylate reductase 1) across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40)
   samples;
25 wherein X-axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts normalized
   Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values;
                                              8

   Figure 3 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of Proteasome activator
   subunit 3 (PSME3) across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40) samples;
   wherein X-axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts normalized
   Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values;
 5 Figure 4 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of Replication protein A2
   (RPA2) across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40) samples;
   wherein X-axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts normalized
   Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values; and
   Figure 5 illustrates the Volcano Plot of the up-regulated and down-regulated
10 biomarkers using penetrance-based analysis;
   wherein X-axis depicts the overall fold change and the Y-axis depicts the p-Value of
   the biomarkers.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
15 Early diagnosis of oral cancer is vital, as successful treatment often depends on
   early detection. Moreover, some premalignant and early cancerous lesions are not
   readily detectable by visual inspection. Therefore, the integration of early detection
   and screening based on biomarkers in conjunction with a conventional oral
   examination is extremely important. Autoantibodies are known to be produced by
20 patients in certain diseases such as autoimmune diseases and cardiovascular
   related disorders, in some cases even before the onset of the disease. The
   autoantibody response to a single or combination of these biomarkers can be utilized
   for early detection, prognosis, and potential target for therapy. However, most
   diagnostic tests are based on single biomarkers. Constructing a clinical decision on a
25 single biomarker can lead to a significant level of false positives. Antibodies
   (autoantibodies) have several properties which make them excellent indicators of
   disease. Unlike most other proteins found in serum, autoantibodies are stable,
   abundant, and highly specific, easily purified from serum, and are readily detected.
                                              9

   Due to their inherent amplification within the immune system, autoantibodies are
   relatively abundant and are easily measured, making them ideal for the detection of
   disease at an early stage when other potential biomarkers may be undetectable.
   Autoantibody biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity can be identified
 5 accurately and easily utilising samples obtained with minimally invasive techniques.
   In one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method for detecting at
   least one biomarker in a sample. The method comprises the following steps:
   Initially, a sample is diluted with serum albumin buffer to obtain a diluted sample. The
   diluted sample is then contacted with a reagent. The reagent comprises a set of
10 capture antibody component and at least one detection antibody component.
   The capture antibody component is capable of binding with at least one biomarker in
   one to one, one to many, and many to many correspondence. This means one
   capture antibody component may bind with one biomarker, or more than one
   biomarker. Alternatively, one biomarker may bind with one capture antibody
15 component, or more than one capture antibody component.
   Typically, the biomarker is at least one selected from the group consisting of genes
   or parts thereof, non-coding DNA, mRNA or other RNA molecules, proteins and so
   on. In an embodiment, the at least one biomarker is a protein. Typically, at least one
   biomarker is an autoantibody to a protein or other antigen. Typically, at least one
20 autoantibody is detected by using at least one oral cancer biomarker.
   In accordance with the embodiments of the present disclosure, the biomarker can be
   selected from the group consisting of Nucleotide binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis
   specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein
   Y-linked 2      (TSPY2),    Replication  protein   A2  (RPA2),    Pyrroline-5-carboxylate
25 reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group nucleosome
   binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1),             Rhophilin associated protein 1 (ROPN1,
   Ropporin),     RNA    binding   motif protein   46   (RBM46),   Proteasome     (prosome,
   macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19 (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN),
                                                10

   Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine
   monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDHI1).
   The set of capture antibody component typically comprises antibody against at least
   one biomarker selected from the group consisting of Nucleotide binding protein 2
 5 (NUBP2), Testis specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4),
   Testis specific protein Y-linked 2 (TSPY2), Replication protein A2 (RPA2), Pyrroline
   5-carboxylate reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group
   nucleosome binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1), Rhophilin associated protein 1
   (ROPN1, Ropporin), RNA binding motif protein 46 (RBM46), Proteasome (prosome,
10 macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19 (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN),
   Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine
   monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDHI1).
   The method of the present disclosure further comprises correlating the binding of the
   capture antibody component with at least one biomarker in the sample with
15 diagnosis of oral cancer.
   The method provides for the detection and measurement of single and/or multiple
   biomarkers in samples in order to diagnose oral cancer. The biomarkers are
   differentially expressed in the serum of individuals suffering from an oral disease,
   such as oral cancer as compared to the serum of an individual not suffering from
20 said disease state. In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the method of
   diagnosing oral cancer in an individual comprises obtaining a sample (biological
   sample) from the individual and detecting the presence at least one, multiple or a
   panel of biomarker/s identified as associated with oral cancer and the screening and
   analysis of the at least one biomarker from the sample. In an embodiment of the
25 present disclosure, the method of diagnosing oral cancer comprises determining
   and/or measuring the level of at least one biomarker.
   In accordance with the embodiments of the present disclosure, the sample is at least
   one selected from the group consisting of a sample drawn from blood, serum,
   plasma, urine, sputum and saliva.
                                             11

   In another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided at least one biomarker
   selected from the group consisting of Nucleotide binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis
   specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein
   Y-linked 2     (TSPY2),     Replication protein    A2  (RPA2),    Pyrroline-5-carboxylate
 5 reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group nucleosome
   binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1),             Rhophilin associated protein 1 (ROPN1,
   Ropporin),    RNA    binding   motif protein    46   (RBM46),    Proteasome    (prosome,
   macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19 (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN),
   Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine
10 monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1) for the detection of oral cancer.
   The present disclosure provides biomarkers for the diagnosis of oral cancer in an
   individual. The method comprises obtaining a sample from the individual and
   detecting the presence at least one biomarker identified as associated with oral
   cancer and the screening and analysis of the biomarker from the sample. Typically,
15 the oral cancer can be diagnosed by determining and/or measuring the expression
   level of at least one biomarker as described in the present disclosure. Further, some
   of the proteins are down-regulated, whereas some proteins are up-regulated in oral
   cancer. These down-regulated or up-regulated proteins can also be determined
   using the method of the present disclosure.
20 The present disclosure is further described in light of the following experiments which
   are set forth for illustration purposes only and not to be construed for limiting the
   scope of the disclosure.
   Experimental Details
   Experiment-1:
25 A study was conducted using 20 oral cancer patient samples and 20 control cases of
   healthy individuals. A total of 53 potential biomarkers were identified with 25 proteins
   showing up-regulation and 28 proteins showing down-regulation in oral cancer
   patients. The main experimental steps of the study included serum/plasma dilution,
                                                12

   biomarker assay, array washing after serum binding procedure, incubation with Cy3
   anti IgG, washing after incubation with Cy3-anti IgG and data analysis (comprising
   the stages of cohort design, spot segmentation and statistical analysis), as given
   below.
 5 Samples were placed in a shaking incubator set at 200C to allow thawing for 30
   minutes. When the sample was completely thawed, each sample was vortexed
   vigorously three times at full speed and spun down for 3 minutes at 13,000 rpm
   using a microcentrifuge. 22.5 pL of the sample was pipetted into 4.5 mL of Serum
   Assay Buffer (SAB) containing 0.1% v/v Triton, 0.1% w/v BSA in PBS (200C) and
10 vortexed to mix three times. The tube was tilted during aspiration to ensure that the
   sera was sampled from below the lipid layer at the top but does not touch the bottom
   of the tube in case of presence of any sediment. This Serum/Plasma dilution process
   was carried out in a class II Biological safety cabinet. Batch records were marked
   accordingly to ensure that the correct samples were added to the correct tubes. The
15 array was removed from the storage buffer using forceps, placed in the slide box and
   rack containing 200 mL cold SAB and shaken on an orbital shaker at 50 rpm, for 5
   minutes. When the slides have completed washing, the slide was placed, array side
   up, in a slide hybridization chamber with individual sera which had been diluted
   earlier. All slides were scanned using the barcode scanner into the relevant batch
20 record and incubated on a horizontal shaker at 50 rpm for 2 hours at 200C. The
   protein array slide was then rinsed twice in individual Pap jars with 30 mL SAB,
   followed by 200 mL of SAB buffer in the slide staining box for 20 minutes on the
   shaker at 50 rpm at room temperature. Binding of IgG was detected by incubation
   with Cy3Urabbit antiUhuman IgG (Dako Cytomation) labelled according to the
25 manufacturer's recommended protocols (GE Healthcare). Arrays were immersed in
   hybridization solution containing a mixture of Cy3U rabbit antihuman IgG solution
   diluted 1:1000 in SAB buffer for 2 hours at 50 rpm in 200C. After incubation, the slide
   was dipped in 200 mL of SAB buffer, 3 times for 5 minutes at 50 rpm at room
   temperature. Excess buffer was removed by immersing the slide in 200 mL of pure
30 water for a few minutes. Slides were then dried for 2 minutes at 240g at room
   temperature. Slides were then stored at room temperature until scanning (preferably
                                             13

   the same day). Hybridization signals were         measured   with  a microarray      laser
   scanner (Agilent Scanner) at 10pm resolution. Fluorescence levels were detected
   according to the manufacturer's instructions. Data sorting and analysis are done by
   customized computer scripts written using a Linux operating system, whereas
 5 each spot is plotted using Agilent Feature Extraction software. The potential
   biomarkers were identified and ranked using two methods:
    1) penetrance-based threshold; and
   2) volcano plot analysis.
    Identification and ranking of protein biomarkers were done using a penetrance-based
10 fold change. A penetrance-based fold change measures the likelihood that a given
   raw fold change is true, thus increasing the significance and reliability of the results.
   The volcano plot analysis was used for the identification of putative biomarker
   candidates and for plotting the Log2 (overall fold change) on the x-axis versus
   Log1O (p-value) on the y-axis, as illustrated in Figure-5.
15 Figure 5 illustrates the Volcano Plot of the up-regulated and down-regulated
   biomarkers using penetrance-based analysis; wherein X-axis depicts the overall fold
   change and the Y-axis depicts the p-Value of the biomarkers.
   Calculation of the overall fold change was calculated by dividing the mean of each
   protein across all case samples, p(Hcase) with the mean of each protein across all
20 control samples, p(Hcontrol).
   Volcano plot (Figure-5) clearly depicts both the up-regulated and the down-regulated
   biomarkers identified using the penetrance-based analysis. The volcano plot shows
   a slight differential regulation of the potential biomarkers. The up-regulated proteins
   in case are located in the upper right side of the volcano plot and down-regulated
25 proteins are located in upper left part of the plot.
                                                14

   The methods were used for comparison between the oral cancer patients and
   healthy patients. The potential biomarkers were identified and ranked according to
   the following criteria:
       -   P-value 5 0.05;
 5     -   For up-regulated biomarkers, Penetrance Fold Change Difference [i.e.
           (Penetrance Fold Change)Case - (Penetrance Fold Change)Control] was 2
           and Frequency Differential 21;
       -   For down-regulated biomarkers, Penetrance Fold Change Difference [i.e.
           (Penetrance Fold Change)Case - (Penetrance Fold Change)Control] was 5-2
10         and Frequency Differential -1;
       -   Frequency percentage in case (i.e. Frequency case/Number of case X 100%)
           must be    10%; and
       -   Frequency percentage in control (i.e. Frequency control /Number of control X
           100%) must be      10%.
15 Figures 1 to 4 show increased expression of proteins in oral cancer cases as
   compared to controls suggesting that these proteins could serve as potential
   biomarkers for oral cancer.
   Figure 1 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1)
   across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40) samples; wherein X-axis
20 depicts number of patient samples and           Y-axis depicts normalized    Relative
   Fluorescence Units (RFU) values.
   Figure 2 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of PYCR1        (pyrroline-5
   carboxylate reductase 1) across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40)
   samples; wherein X-axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts
25 normalized Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values.
   Figure 3 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of Proteasome activator
   subunit 3 (PSME3) across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40) samples;
                                             15

   wherein X-axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts normalized
   Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values.
   Figure 4 illustrates relative expression (up-regulation) of Replication protein A2
   (RPA2) across oral cancer (1-20) and healthy control (21-40) samples; wherein X
 5 axis depicts number of patient samples and Y-axis depicts normalized
   Relative Fluorescence Units (RFU) values.
   Thus, a total of 53 potential biomarkers were identified of which 25 showed up
   regulation and 28 proteins showed down-regulation in oral cancer patients.
   The    embodiments      as  described  herein  above,   and  various   features and
10 advantageous details thereof are explained with reference to the non-limiting
   embodiments in the description. Descriptions of well-known aspects, components
   and molecular biology techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the
   embodiments herein.
   The foregoing description of specific embodiments so fully reveal the general nature
15 of the embodiments herein, that others can, by applying current knowledge, readily
   modify and/or adapt for various applications of such specific embodiments without
   departing from      the generic concept,    and, therefore, such adaptations      and
   modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and
   range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the
20 phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not
   of limitation. Therefore, while the embodiments herein have been described in terms
   of preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize            that the
   embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of
   the embodiments as described herein. Further, it is to be distinctly understood that
25 the foregoing descriptive matter is to be interpreted merely as illustrative of the
   disclosure and not as a limitation.
   Having described and illustrated the principles of the present disclosure with
   reference to the described embodiments, it will be recognized that the described
                                             16

   embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from the
   scope of such principles.
   While considerable emphasis has been placed herein on the particular features of
   this disclosure, it will be appreciated that various modifications can be made, and
 5 that many changes can be made in the preferred embodiment without departing from
   the principles of the disclosure. These and other modifications in the nature of the
   disclosure or the preferred embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art
   from the disclosure herein, whereby it is to be distinctly understood that the foregoing
   descriptive matter is to be interpreted merely as illustrative of the disclosure and not
10 as a limitation.
   TECHNICAL ADVANCEMENTS
   The present disclosure described herein above has several technical advantages
   including, but not limited to, the realization of determination of the expression level of
   a biomarker in a sample. The expression level of the biomarker in a sample is
15 correlated with the diagnosis of oral cancer.
   The    embodiments      as   described    herein   above,  and    various  features and
   advantageous details thereof are explained with reference to the non-limiting
   embodiments in the description. Descriptions of well-known aspects, components
   and molecular biology techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the
20 embodiments herein.
   The foregoing description of specific embodiments so fully reveal the general nature
   of the embodiments herein, that others can, by applying current knowledge, readily
   modify and/or adapt for various applications of such specific embodiments without
   departing from      the generic concept,       and, therefore,   such adaptations and
25 modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and
   range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the
   phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not
   of limitation. Therefore, while the embodiments herein have been described in terms
                                                 17

   of preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art will recognize               that the
   embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of
   the embodiments as described herein. Further, it is to be distinctly understood that
   the foregoing descriptive matter is to be interpreted merely as illustrative of the
 5 disclosure and not as a limitation.
   Having described and illustrated the principles of the present disclosure with
   reference to the described embodiments, it will be recognized that the described
   embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from the
   scope of such principles.
10 While considerable emphasis has been placed herein on the particular features of
   this disclosure, it will be appreciated that various modifications can be made, and
   that many changes can be made in the preferred embodiment without departing from
   the principles of the disclosure. These and other modifications in the nature of the
   disclosure or the preferred embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art
15 from the disclosure herein, whereby it is to be distinctly understood that the foregoing
   descriptive matter is to be interpreted merely as illustrative of the disclosure and not
   as a limitation.
                                              18

CLAIMS:
 1. A method for detecting at least one biomarker in a sample, said method
    comprising the following steps:
          a. diluting said sample containing said at least biomarker with serum
              albumin buffer to obtain a diluted sample;
          b. contacting said    diluted sample with a reagent comprising a set of
              capture antibody component capable of binding with said at least one
              biomarker in a one to one, one to many, and many to many
              correspondence, and at least one detection antibody component
              capable of detecting the binding of said capture antibody component
              with said biomarker; and
          c. analyzing the change in the intensity of the detection antibody
              component to detect the presence of said biomarker and the extent of
              its expression,
      wherein said at least one biomarker is selected from the group consisting of
      Nucleotide binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis specific protein Y-linked 3
      (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein Y-linked 2
      (TSPY2), Replication protein A2 (RPA2), Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase 1
      (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group nucleosome binding
      domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1),           Rhophilin associated protein   1 (ROPN1,
       Ropporin), RNA binding motif protein 46 (RBM46), Proteasome (prosome,
      macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19 (KRT19), Transgelin
                                          19

   (TAGLN),     Peroxiredoxin   (PRDX1),  S100 Calcium     binding  protein A9
   (S100A9), and Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1).
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said set of capture antibody
   component comprises antibody against said at least one biomarker selected
   from the group consisting of Nucleotide binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis
   specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3), XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific
   protein Y-linked 2 (TSPY2), Replication protein A2 (RPA2), Pyrroline-5
   carboxylate reductase 1 (PYCR1), Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility
   group nucleosome binding domain 5 (HMGN5/NSBP1), Rhophilin associated
   protein 1 (ROPN1,      Ropporin), RNA binding motif protein 46 (RBM46),
   Proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19
   (KRT19),    Transgelin (TAGLN),    Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1),     S100 Calcium
   binding protein A9 (S100A9), and Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1
   (IMPDH1).
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said sample is serum.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1 comprises correlating the binding of the
   capture antibody component with said at least one biomarker in the sample
   with diagnosis of oral cancer.
5. At least one biomarker selected from the group consisting of Nucleotide
   binding protein 2 (NUBP2), Testis specific protein Y-linked 3 (TSPY3),
   XAGE-4 protein (XAGE4), Testis specific protein Y-linked 2 (TSPY2),
   Replication protein A2 (RPA2), Pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase 1 (PYCR1),
                                     20

Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1), High mobility group nucleosome binding domain 5
(HMGN5/NSBP1), Rhophilin associated protein 1 (ROPN1, Ropporin), RNA
binding   motif protein 46 (RBM46),     Proteasome (prosome,     macropain)
activator subunit 3 (PSME3), Keratin 19 (KRT19), Transgelin (TAGLN),
Peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), S100 Calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9), and
Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1),
wherein said biomarker is used for the detection of oral cancer.
                                  21

                      !
                      !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              40000
              30000
              20000
              10000
                  0
                          1   10      20      30   40
                                   FIGURE 1
                                     1/5

                      !
                      !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              30000
              20000
              10000
                  0
                          1   10     20       30   40
                                   FIGURE 2
                                     2/5

                     !
                     !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    8000
              6000
              4000
              2000
                 0
                         1   10     20       30   40
                                  FIGURE 3
                                    3/5

                      !
                      !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              60000
              40000
              20000
                  0
                          1   10      20      30   40
                                   FIGURE 4
                                     4/5

                                     !
                                     !
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 4
                                 3
              -Log10 (p Value)
                                 2
                                 1
                                 0
                                         -2   -1       0          1   2
                                                   Log2 (Ratio)
                                                    FIGURE 5
                                                   5/5

