A bird island for floating in cattle troughs, preventing native wildlife drowning and
subsequent contamination/fouling of the water.

bzm     2r
                 -u~
                           m
                                         0
                           I3
                                              C
            0                     40
       Rn     u-         -  - -  -   - -
       rn   <
                      II
         nc
                   MC                  0
     Sc"3
                              oo
                                           1m
    mm

                 Australian Government
                       IP Australia
                    REDACTION NOTICE
THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENT HAS BEEN EDITED
           TO REMOVE TEXT OR PAGE(S)
           FROM THE EDOSSIER SYSTEM
 THAT MAY CONTAIN PERSONAL INFORMATION
         OF A SENSITIVE NATURE, AND/OR
BECAUSE PUBLICATION OF THE TEXT OR PAGE(S)
               IS RESTRICTED UNDER
    COPYRIGHT OR LICENSING CONDITIONS.
 THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT MAY BE OPEN TO PUBLIC INSPECTION
         UNDER SECTION 55 OF THE PATENTS ACT 1990.
  PLEASE CONTACT IP AUSTRALIA FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

                                       BIRD ISLAND 2016.
        Visited David Hollier, Industrial Designer at Gough Plastics, 833 Ingham Road, Bohle in
Townsville on Wednesday 2 9 th March. 2016,                     ').<dh@gough.com.au>
         Over two hours discussed design for Bird Island float system at length and threw ideas
around for a time with regard to colour and grade plastics to satisfy requirements.
         (David grew up on a property outside Clermont and understands the issues involved.)
         He offered to draw up miniature prototype with design for drinking and landing for smaller
birds not able to reach the water level and therefore put them at risk in dying and fowling the water.
He agreed that it was a much needed innovation for birds and cattlemen alike.
         His parting comment was "we'll see you on Landline!"
         Sandy Harvey offered to put the idea on 'facebook' and Betty Hinton suggested that it would
assist the bee industry as well.
         Gil. Oakley suggested on Saturday morning that it may need a World wide patent.
         On Sunday 3rd April I discussed the idea with Amber Dahlberg and Nick (Georgeson) who
also embraced the proposal although I was seeking input with regard to registering a patent.
         David rang from Townsville on Monday 4t to let me know that he had drawn the diagrams
in three dimensions with a second design and had sent them to me. Also discussed "design
registrations" both here through Gough Plastics (A$400.00 for seven years) and worldwide which is
limited to one year and proves expensive. Also an "Innovation Patent" for A$3,000.00 or 4,000.00.
         Rang David on morning of 6th April. Discussed MkI and put extra steps to every side of
island so if trough drops in level birds can get on it at wall of trough. Also three steps on MkII.
         Also made two more, destinations at Flat Creek Station, to David's parents at Clermont and
to me. Gough Plastics also attends Field Days.
         (Col. Klemm said that his step Dad put bags on trough edges for bees to drink.) David said
Kookaburras will swim in circles trying to escape.
         07/04/2016: Spoke to David and instructed him to register the designs on Mk I and Mk II
which will cost about $400.00 apiece. It's the first step to a patent.
        Also paid for two to be posted with Visa Card and they were posted on Friday (8h ) morning.
David sent a receipt to my computer. Discussed making MkII about 380 centimetres across as the
450 cm looks too big for a stable trough. Will need less holes in it and David will attend to it next
week.
         First Outback prototype arrived by 13/04/16 and looks good. Rope hole needs to be larger.
Very solid, Nick took it home to sit in trough after he mended the TV aerial.
         On 14/04/16 took it to Greg at Wetlands who liked it, Took it to John and Cathie Colless and
John liked it and we put it in trough for two days.
         On Friday (22nd) took images to NGRMG who took images for Carly who will try and get
$15,000.00 grant through the system. Scott at TGT liked it also too and went to Steve Gould whose
son was very complementary after trying it in the swimming pool. He worked in a plastic
manufacture factory in Melbourne.
         Have decided to change hole in base to centre with a piece of silver rope to show how we
can tether it. (Planning on attending NQ Field Days in Townsville and entering in new innovations
section.) Need to do this week coming with David as final adjustment to be able to register the
design. Appealing for road kill Kookaburra.
         Contacted by Pam Schultz of Mitchell River Watershed Management Group with a view to
meet and discuss "bird island".
         Started in March? 2017 to design Octagonal shape with Gough Plastics and after much
deliberation and many changes was ready to make the mould in Melbourne by mid April.
         The alloy metal mould came back from Melbourne about 2nd May and the first were
produced by 4h May. Drove to Townsville on 8-11 May collecting four Islands from Simon and Ian
Gough.
         Stayed at Beachfront Motel in Cardwell both ways. The island were perforated and wouldn't

stay on top of the water due to bubble holes a real fault.
                Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawing only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
