             A MODULAR RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION
                                   TAGGING METHOD
                                            Abstract
             The RF antenna portion (102) and the RFID electronics portion (103) of an RFID
 5 tag (101) are produced separately and assembled on the item to be tagged. This reduces
   the overall costs of the RFID tagging process, in addition to providing other benefits.
   Specifically, the RF antenna (102) is pre-applied to an item that is to be tagged and the
   RFID electronics (103) are applied separately to the item in the form of a discrete RFID
   electronics module (103) that couples to the pre-applied RF antenna (102) to provide an
10 RFID capability for the item.

                                                    1
A Modular Radio Frequency Identification Tagging Method
          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Background to the Invention
          Radio frequency identification (RFID) labels and tags are expected to enable the next
generation of automated item identification technology. (In this document the terms "label" and
"tag" are used interchangeably.) In particular it is expected that self-adhesive RFID labels and
tags will be used extensively to tag items and containers.
          In order for RFID tagging to be widely adopted it will need to be low-cost. The current
conventional means of providing self-adhesive RFID tags involves producing discrete RFID tags
that each includes all of the components needed to provide a complete RFID capability( and
applying such tags to the items to be tagged. A disadvantage of this approach is that the
production of complete, discrete RRD tags is intrinsically costly. Another disadvantage of this
approach is that conventional RFID tags include relatively fragile components, and if applied to
an item during the early stages of the item's manufacturing or packaging they may be damaged
and rendered inoperative.
Disclosure of the Invention
          It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more disadvantages of the prior art.
          There is disclosed herein a method comprising:
          providing an RF antenna , the antenna having a first set of electrically conductive pads;
applying the RF antenna to an item; providing an RFID electronics module the module being a
chip and having a second set of electrically conductive pads; aligning the first set of pads with
the second set of pads, with the first and second set of pads being configured to allow a range of
misalignment of the set of pads; and fixing the RFD electronics module to the item with an
adhesive; and wherein the first and the second set of electrically conductive pads provide
coupling of the RF antenna and the RFID electronics module, the coupling being a non-contact
coupling.

                                                  la
       Preferably, the item includes an inside surface and an outside surface and further
comprising providing the RF antenna on the inside surface of the item and attaching the RFID
electronics module, in an adjacent position, to the outside surface of the item.
       Preferably, the method further comprises providing a dielectric between the RF antenna
and the RFID electronics module.
       Preferably, the method further comprises providing the RFID electronics module separate
from the item and the RF antenna on the item; and
       attaching the RFID electronics module to the item after applying the RF antenna to the
item. Preferably, the method further comprises providing alignment features on the item and
positioning the RFID electronics module on the item based on a location of the alignment
features.
         Preferably, applying the RF antenna to the item comprises printing the RF antenna on
the item.
         Preferably, the RF antenna is printed on the item using electrically conductive ink.
         There is further disclosed herein in combination, an item having at least one surface and
an RF antenna applied to the surface; and an RFID electronics module separate from the item
and from the RF antenna on the item, the RFID electronics module being a chip fixed to a
substrate and including electronics which provide an RFID capability when coupled to the RF
antenna, the RFID electronics module being attached to the item by an adhesive provided on the
RFID electronics module so as to be electrically coupled to the RF antenna and provide an RFID
capability for the item, the RF antenna being coupled to the RFID electronics module by a non
contact coupling, and wherein the RF antenna and RFID electronics module have engaged
respective first and second sets of electrically conductive pads which are configured to allow a
range of misalignment of the RF antenna and the RFID electronics module and which are
aligned, within the range of misalignment, in a predetermined manner relative to each other
when the RFID electronics module is attached to the item so as to provide the electrical
coupling.
         Preferably, a dielectric between the RFID electronics module and the RF antenna.

                                                   lb
        Preferably, the RFID electronics module is adapted to have its RFID capability modified
if the RFID electronics module is tampered or removed from the item.
        Preferably, one of the first and second sets of electrically conductive pads is larger than
the other of the first and second sets of electrically conductive pads so as to allow for some
misalignment of the RF antenna and the RFID electronics module.
        Preferably, one of the first and second sets of electrically conductive pads is larger than
the other of the first and second sets of electrically conductive pads so as to allow for some
misalignment of the RF antenna and the RFID electronics module.
        Preferably, the adhesive is a non-conductive adhesive.
        Preferably, the adhesive is a non-conductive adhesive.
        Preferably, the RFID electronics module has said adhesive for application to the item.

   Preferably, but not necessarily, said means of application of said REID electronics
   module to said item may be an adhesive.
 5
   Brief Description of the Figures
                                                                              will now be
   The principles of the disclosed embodiments of the present invention
   described by way of non-limiting example with reference to the schematic
10 illustrations in figures 1 to 3, wherein:
                                                                                       of the
        -    Figures 1 and 2 are schematic illustrations of a preferred embodiment
             current invention, showing an item with a pre-applied RF antenna and an
             RFID electronics module being applied to the item in the vicinity of said RF
             antenna so as to couple to said RF antenna and thereby provide a complete
15           RFID function for said item; and
                                                                                 of the RFID
        -    Figure 3 is a schematic illustration of one preferred embodiment
             electronics module illustrated in figures 1 and 2.
20 Detailed Description of the Invention
                                                                                           and
   In general an RFID tag provides the capability to store information electronically
   to enable the stored information to be read from a distance by means of radio
                                                                     enable modification of
   frequency (RF) techniques. In some cases an REID tag may
25 said stored information.
   An RFID tag typically comprises two distinct components:
        -    an RF antenna; and
        -    RFID electronics that are coupled to said RF antenna to provide an RFID
30           capability.
   In a conventional RFID tag both the RF antenna and the RFID electronics are
                                                                      so that the tags are
   integrated into the tag at the time of manufacture of the tag,
                                                                    applied to items to be
   produced as discrete, fully functional RFID devices that are
   tagged.
35
                                                  2

   In comparison, according to embodiments of the present invention, the RF antenna
   portion and the RFID electronics portion of an REID tag are produced separately and
   assembled on the item to be tagged. This reduces the overall cost of the RFID
   tagging process, in addition to providing other benefits. Specifically, in the disclosed
 5 embodiment of the present invention the RF antenna is pre-applied to an item that is
   to be tagged and the RFID electronics are applied separately to the item in the form
   of a discrete REID electronics module that couples to the pre-applied RF antenna to
   provide an RFID capability for said item. It should be appreciated that the RFID
   electronics module may include an antenna portion that contributes to the overall
10 antenna function of the combined RF antenna plus REID electronics module, and
   further that this antenna portion may be used to couple the REID electronics module
   and pre-applied RF antenna.
   It should be appreciated that the term "item" as used herein is used in its broadest
15 sense, and may for example refer to a product, product packaging, or container.
                                                                                        RF
   The pre-applied RF antenna has no RFID capability in its own right, before the
   electronics module is applied.
20 Preferably, but not necessarily, the pre-applied RF antenna may be applied to an
   item by means of a printing process that may in one embodiment involve printing
   electrically conductive ink directly onto the surface of said item. Printing of said
   electrically conductive ink may be carried out in conjunction with printing of graphics,
   text, barcodes or other visible markings on said item.
25
   It should be appreciated that in other embodiments the RF antenna may be made
   from materials other than electrically conductive inks. For example, in one
   embodiment the RF antenna may be made from a solid metal conductor or from a
   hybrid ink-plus-metal conductor.
30
   Preferably, but not necessarily, the REID electronics module may couple to the pre
   applied RF antenna by means of a non-contact coupling method such as capacitive
                                                                                   will
   coupling or inductive coupling. The optimum non-contact coupling method
                                                                                   module.
   depend on factors such as the operating frequency of the RFID electronics
35 In other embodiments the RFID electronics module may be directly connected to the
                                                3

   RF antenna - i.e. by means of a direct physical electrical connection. It should be
   appreciated that the electronics in the RF electronics module that is used to couple
   or connect the REID electronics module to the pre-applied RF antenna may itself
   constitute a portion of the antenna of the completed REID tag.
 5
   Figures 1 and 2 are schematic illustrations of one embodiment of the present
   invention. In the embodiment of figures 1 and 2 an item 101 has an RF antenna 102
                                                                              to the item
   printed on it. An RFID electronics module 103 is subsequently applied
   101 in a specified position and orientation in the vicinity of the RF antenna 102 such
1o that the REID electronics in the module 103 couples to the RF antenna 102 to
                                                                             electronics
   provide an REID capability for the item 101. Figure 1 shows the REID
   module 103 before application to the item 101, while figure 2 shows the RFID
   electronics module 103 after it has been applied to the item 101. In figures 1 and 2
   the RFID electronics module 103 is shown as having a circular shape, but it should
15 be appreciated that other shapes and configurations for the RFID electronics module
   103 are possible, while still embodying the principles described herein for the present
   invention. Similarly, a specific RF antenna design 102 is illustrated in figures .1 and 2,
   but it should be appreciated that other RF antenna designs are possible, including
   induction loop designs for the RF antenna 102.
20
                                                                                          to
   Preferably, but not necessarily, the RFID electronics module 103 may be applied
                                                                                           the
   the item 101 by means of an adhesive on the RFID electronics module 103 or on
   item 101.
25 The RFID electronics in the RFID electronics module 103 may be either "passive" or
   "active". In this context the term "passive" means that the REID electronics module
   103 does not include a power source, while the term "active" means that the RFID
   electronics module 103 includes an on-board power source such as a battery.
30 In one preferred embodiment the RFID electronics module 103 is passive and the
   electronics in the module 103 comprises a single RFID integrated circuit (IC)
   connected to electrically conductive pads, or an electrically conductive circuit,
                                                                                       103 and
   thereby enabling non-contact coupling between the RFID electronics module
   the pre-printed RF antenna 102.
35
                                               4

     In the embodiment of figures 1 and 2 the RFID electronics module 103 preferably
     couples to the RF antenna 102 by means of a non-contact coupling method such as
     capacitive coupling or inductive coupling.
  5  Figure 3 is a schematic illustration of one preferred embodiment of the REID
     electronics module 103. In figure 3 the RFID electronics module 103 consists of a
     substrate 301 to which is attached an RFID IC 302. The RFID IC 302 is connected to
     electrically conductive pads 303 that enable non-contact coupling between the RFID
     electronics module 103 and the pre-printed antenna 102, and that in some
 10  embodiments may also form part of the antenna of the combined RFID electronics
     module 103 plus pre-printed RF antenna 102. The substrate 301, REID IC 302 and
     electrically conductive pads 303 may be covered with a layer of adhesive used to
     attach the RFID electronics module 103 to the item 101. In one embodiment the
     substrate 301 may be a thin flexible substrate material, while in another embodiment
 15 the substrate 301 may be a thicker material with recessed or contoured portions to
     house the RFID IC 302 and electrically conductive pads 303.
    The electrically conductive pads 303 may be configured in any of a number of
    different ways, depending on the non-contact method used to couple the RFID
20  electronics module 103 to the RF antenna 102. The illustration of the electrically
    conductive pads 303 shown in figure 3 is consistent with capacitive coupling being
    used to provide non-contact coupling between the RFID electronics module 103 and
    the pre-printed RF antenna 102. In the case of inductive coupling between the REID
    electronics module 103 and the antenna 102 the electrically conductive pads 303
25  may form an induction loop connected to the RFID IC 302.
    In a variation on the embodiment of the RFID electronics module 103 illustrated in
    figure 3, the REID IC 302 may be designed to enable non-contact coupling to the RF
    antenna 102 without the need for electrically conductive pads 303, in which case the
30  electrically conductive pads 303 may not be included in the RFID electronics module
    103.
    The use of non-contact coupling between the RFID electronics module 103 and the
    pre-printed RF antenna 102 avoids the need to establish a direct electrical connection
35  between the RFID electronics module 103 and the pre-printed RF antenna 102,
                                                 5

       thereby making assembly of the RFID electronics module 103 on the item 101 easier.
       In order to enable or optimize non-contact coupling it may be necessary to apply a
       layer of dielectric material between the RF antenna 102 and the RFID electronics
       module 103, for example by printing said dielectric material over the RF antenna
   5   102. In those embodiments where the REID electronics module 103 is applied to the
       item 101 by means of an adhesive layer said adhesive layer may provide a suitable
       dielectric layer between the RF antenna 102 and the RFID electronics module 103.
       In some embodiments non-contact coupling between the RF antenna 102 and the
 10    RFID electronics module 103 may occur through a substrate material that is part of
       the item 101, so that the RF antenna 102 may be on one surface of a substrate
       material and the RFID electronics module 103 may be applied to the opposite surface
      of said substrate material. For example, the RF antenna 102 may be printed on the
       inside surface of a product package and the RFID electronics module 103 may be
 15   applied in a specified position and orientation to the outside surface of said product
      packaging such that the RF antenna 102 couples to the RFID electronics module 103.
      It should be appreciated that in order for non-contact coupling between the RF
      antenna 102 and the RFID electronics module 103 to be effective it may be
 20   necessary for the RFID electronics module 103 to be placed on the item 101 in a
      specified position and orientation relative to the RF antenna 102, within certain
      tolerances. Preferably, but not necessarily, the non-contact coupling means may be
      designed so as to allow some misalignment of the REID electronics module 103 and
     the RF antenna 102 while still providing effective non-contact coupling and an
25    effective RFID capability. For example, in the case of capacitive coupling between
     electrical contact pads on the RF antenna 102 and electrical contact pads on the
     RFID electronics module 103, one set of contact pads - either on the RF antenna
      102 or on the RFID electronics module 103 - may deliberately be made significantly
     larger than the other set and the contact pads may be spaced so as to allow a
30   degree of misalignment of the RFID electronics module 103 relative to the RF
     antenna 102 while still providing effective capacitive coupling.
     In one preferred embodiment the item 101 may include alignment marks to indicate
     where and how the RFID electronics module 103 should be placed to result in
35   effective non-contact coupling to the RF antenna 102. In another preferred
                                                  6

   embodiment the item 101 may include surface features, such as a recessed area of
                                                                                        on
   specified size and shape, to aid in positioning of the RFID electronics module 103
   the item 101 and thereby produce effective non-contact coupling to the RF antenna
    102. Similarly, the RFID electronics module 103 may include markings or colors or
 5 surface features to assist in applying the RFID electronics module 103 to the item
    101 in the correct position and orientation so as to produce effective non-contact
   coupling between the RFID electronics module 103 and the RF antenna 102.
    In some applications it may be important that the RFID electronics module 103
10 cannot be removed from an item 101 and reused on another item. Hence in some
                                                                                      that
    preferred embodiments the RFID electronics module 103 may be designed such
    it will be damaged if it is removed after being applied to an item 101, thereby
                                                                                       This
   preventing the RFID electronics module 103 from being reused on another item.
   self-destruct feature may result from (i) using a strong adhesive to attach the RFID
15 electronics module 103 to the item 101; or (ii) including in the design of the RFID
   electronics module 103 certain weak points that are intended to break or separate or
   fail in some way if the RFID electronics module 103 is removed from the item 101; or
   (iii) other deliberately introduced design element(s) that result in damage to the
    RFID electronics module 103 if it is removed from the item 101.
   One technique for providing a self-destruct feature is described in U.S. Patent
                                                                                         is
   Application Publication 20030075608. In that application, a tamper indicating label
   described. The label may include RFID components and an electrically conductive
   tamper track coupled to the RFID components. The tamper track should be
25 constructed from a destructible electrically conducting material such as electrically
   conductive ink. Additionally, the tamper track can be formed such that it is damaged
   when the label is tampered, thereby modifying or disabling the RFID function of the
   RFID components. In one embodiment, adhesion characteristics of the tamper track
   are adapted to break apart or otherwise damage the tamper track when the label is
30 tampered, for example, by removal from an object. In this way the RFID capability of
   the RFID components may be disabled when the tamper track is damaged, indicating
                                                                                        of
   tampering. In one embodiment the label may be attached to a surface by means
   an adhesive layer, with the tamper track between the label substrate (that includes
   the RFID components) and the adhesive layer. One or more layers of adhesion
35 modifying formulation may be applied in a specific pattern between the REID label
                                                7

                                                                                  material
   substrate and the layer of adhesive, with the layers of adhesion modifying
                                                                             layers that
   modifying (by selectively increasing or decreasing) the adhesion of the
                                                                  track if the RFID label
   they separate, and thereby promoting damage to the tamper
   is tampered or removed from the surface. Since the tamper track is electrically
                                                                                  RFID
 5 connected to the RFID components in the label, and may form part of the
                                                            may be disabled or modified
   components of the label, the RFID function of the label
   if the label is applied to a surface and subsequently tampered or removed.
                                                                              resistance for
   These tamper resistant techniques may also be used to provide tamper
                                                                                  module
10 the RFID electronics module 103, thereby preventing the RFID electronics
                                                                              item 101 to
    103 from being removed from one item 101 and re-applied to a second
    provide an RFID function for the second item 101.
                                                                                 103 to be
    In some applications it may be desirable for the RFID electronics module
15  easy to remove from the item 101. For example, there are at present privacy
    concerns among some consumer groups that RFID may be used as a tracking
                                                                                consumers
    mechanism after an item is purchased, so it may be desirable to provide
                                                                                 purchase.
    an easy way to disable the RFID capability on any tagged items that they
                                                                                module 103
    This could be achieved by allowing easy removal of the RFID electronics
                                                                                     module
20  from the item 101, and in some embodiments designing the RFID electronics
                                                               therefore unusable after it
    103, for example as described above, to be damaged and
    has been removed from the item 101.
                                                8

                                                    9
CLAIMS
1.     A method, comprising:
       providing an RF antenna , the antenna having a first set of electrically conductive pads;
       applying the RF antenna to an item;
       providing an RFID electronics module the module being a chip and having a second set of
electrically conductive pads;
       aligning the first set of pads with the second set of pads, with the first and second set of
pads being configured to allow a range of misalignment of the set of pads; and
       fixing the RFD electronics module to the item with an adhesive; and wherein
       the first and the second set of electrically conductive pads provide coupling of the RF
antenna and the RFID electronics module, the coupling being a non-contact coupling.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the item includes an inside surface and an outside surface
and further comprising providing the RF antenna on the inside surface of the item and attaching
the RFID electronics module, in an adjacent position, to the outside surface of the item.
3.     The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising providing a dielectric between the RF
antenna and the RFID electronics module.
4.     The method of claim 1, 2, or 3, further comprising:
       providing the RFID electronics module separate from the item and the RF antenna on the
item; and
       attaching the RFID electronics module to the item after applying the RF antenna to the
item.
5.     The method of any one of claims I to 4, further comprising:
       providing alignment features on the item and positioning the RFID electronics module on
the item based on a location of the alignment features.
6.     The method of any of claims 1 to 5, wherein applying the RF antenna to the item
comprises printing the RF antenna on the item.

                                                   10
7.     The method of claim 6, wherein the RF antenna is printed on the item using electrically
conductive ink.
8.     In combination, an item having at least one surface and an RF antenna applied to the
surface; and an RFID electronics module separate from the item and from the RF antenna on the
item, the RFID electronics module being a chip fixed to a substrate and including electronics
which provide an RFID capability when coupled to the RF antenna, the RFID electronics
module being attached to the item by an adhesive provided on the RFID electronics module so
as to be electrically coupled to the RF antenna and provide an RFID capability for the item, the
RF antenna being coupled to the RFID electronics module by a non-contact coupling, and
wherein the RF antenna and RFID electronics module have engaged respective first and second
sets of electrically conductive pads which are configured to allow a range of misalignment of the
RF antenna and the RFID electronics module and which are aligned, within the range of
misalignment, in a predetermined manner relative to each other when the RFID electronics
module is attached to the item so as to provide the electrical coupling.
9.     The combination of claim 8, further comprising a dielectric between the RFID electronics
module and the RF antenna.
10.    The combination of claim 8, wherein the RFID electronics module is adapted to have its
RFID capability modified if the RFID electronics module is tampered or removed from the item.
11.    The method of claim 1, wherein one of the first and second sets of electrically conductive
pads is larger than the other of the first and second sets of electrically conductive pads so as to
allow for some misalignment of the RF antenna and the RFID electronics module.
12.    The combination of claim 8, wherein one of the first and second sets of electrically
conductive pads is larger than the other of the first and second sets of electrically conductive
pads so as to allow for some misalignment of the RF antenna and the RFID electronics module.
13.    The method of claim 1, wherein the adhesive is a non-conductive adhesive.
14.    The combination of claim 8, wherein the adhesive is a non-conductive adhesive.

                                               11
15.   The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, 11 or 13 wherein the RFID electronics module
has said adhesive for application to the item.
                                      MIKOH Corporation
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
