I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933709_l.docx-8 05 2018
Abstract
Preparations including FSH, for example recombinant FSH, for use in the treatment of
infertility.

                            Composition for controlled ovarian stimulation
        This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
        The present invention relates to compositions and pharmaceutical products for the
treatment of infertility.
        Assisted reproductive technology (ART) techniques such as in vitro fertilisation (IVF)
are well known.        These ART techniques generally require a step of controlled ovarian
stimulation (COS), in which a cohort of follicles is stimulated to full maturity. Standard COS
regimens include administration of gonadotrophins, such as follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)
alone or in combination with luteinising hormone (LH) activity to stimulate follicular
development, normally with administration of a GnRH analogue prior to and/or during
stimulation to prevent premature LH surge. The pharmaceutical compositions generally used
for COS include recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (rFSH), urinary derived FSH,
recombinant FSH + LH preparations, urinary derived menotrophin [human menopausal
gonadotrophin (hMG)] and highly purified human menopausal gonadotrophin (HP-hMG).            IVF
can be associated with a risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), which can be life
threatening in severe cases.
        The ability to predict the response potential of women to controlled ovarian stimulation
(COS) may allow the development of individualised COS protocols. This could, for example,
reduce the risk of OHSS in women predicted to have an excessive response to stimulation,
and/or improve pregnancy outcomes in women classed as poor responders.               The serum
concentration of anti-MOllerian hormone (AMH) is now established as a reliable marker of
ovarian reserve. Decreasing levels of AMH are correlated with reduced ovarian response to
gonadotrophins during COS.        Further, high levels of AMH are a good predictor of excessive
ovarian response, and an indicator of risk of OHSS.
         In a preliminary study of women under 35 years old undergoing ART, the CONSORT
dosing algorithm (incorporating basal FSH, BMI, age and AFC) was used to predict the optimal
FSH starting dose for COS in women at risk of developing OHSS (Olivennes et. al., 2009).
Individualising the dose did lead to adequate oocyte yield and good pregnancy rate. However,
there were high rates of cancellations in the low dose group (75 IU FSH) due to inadequate
response, and OHSS did occur in a significant proportion of the patients.
        There is therefore a need for a composition for use in individualised COS protocols
                                                  1

which provides adequate response to stimulation, and/or decreased risk of OHSS.
          As indicated above, standard COS protocols may include administration of FSH. FSH
is naturally secreted by the anterior pituitary gland and functions to support follicular
development and ovulation. FSH comprises a 92 amino acid alpha sub-unit, also common to
the other glycoprotein hormones LH and CG, and a 111 amino acid beta sub-unit unique to
FSH that confers the biological specificity of the hormone (Pierce and Parsons, 1981). Each
sub-unit is post translationally modified by the addition of complex carbohydrate residues. Both
subunits carry 2 sites for N-linked glycan attachment, the alpha sub-unit at amino acids 52 and
78 and the beta sub-unit at amino acid residues 7 and 24 (Rathnam and Saxena, 1975, Saxena
and Rathnam, 1976). FSH is thus glycosylated to about 30% by mass (Dias and Van Roey.
2001. Fox et al. 2001).
           FSH purified from post-menopausal human urine has been used for many years in
infertility treatment; both to promote ovulation in natural reproduction and to provide oocytes for
assisted reproduction technologies. The currently approved recombinant FSH (rFSH) products
for ovarian stimulation, such as follitropin alfa (GONAL-F, Merck Serono / EMD Serono) and
follitropin beta (PUREGON / FOLLISTIM, MSD / Schering-Plough), are derived from a Chinese
Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell line. Currently, no rFSH products from a human cell line are
commercially available.
          There is considerable heterogeneity associated with FSH preparations which relates to
differences in the amounts of various isoforms present.           Individual FSH isoforms exhibit
identical amino acid sequences but differ in the extent to which they are post-translationally
modified; particular isoforms are characterised by heterogeneity of the carbohydrate branch
structures and differing amounts of sialic acid (a terminal sugar) incorporation, both of which
appear to influence the specific isoform bioactivity.
          Glycosylation of natural FSH is highly complex. The glycans in naturally derived
pituitary FSH can contain a wide range of structures that can include combinations of mono-, bi
, tri- and tetra-antennary glycans (Pierce and Parsons, 1981. Ryan et al., 1987. Baenziger and
Green, 1988). The glycans can carry further modifications: core fucosylation, bisecting
glucosamine, chains extended with acetyl lactosamine, partial or complete sialylation,
sialylation with 2,3 and 2,6 linkages, and sulpha      ted galactosamine substituted for galactose
(Dalpathado et al., 2006). Furthermore, there are differences between the distributions of
glycan structures at the individual glycosylation sites. A comparable level of glycan complexity
has been found in FSH derived from the serum of individuals and from the urine of post
menopausal women (Wide et al., 2007).
          The glycosylation of recombinant FSH products reflects the range of glycosyl
transferases present in the host cell line. The commercially available rFSH products are derived
                                                   2

from engineered Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO cells). The range of glycan modifications in
CHO cell derived rFSH are more limited than those found on the natural products. Examples of
the reduced glycan heterogeneity found in CHO cell derived rFSH include a lack of bisecting
glucosamine and a reduced content of core fucosylation and acetyl lactosamine extensions
(Hard et al., 1990). In addition, CHO cells are only able to add sialic acid using the 2,3 linkage
(Kagawa et al, 1988, Takeuchi et al, 1988, Svensson et al., 1990); CHO cell derived rFSH only
includes 2,3-linked sialic acid and does not inclu de 2,6-linked sialic acid.
          Thus CHO cell derived FSH is different from naturally produced FSH (e.g. human
Pituitary/ serum/ urinary FSH) which contains glycans with a mixture of 2,3 and 2,6-linked
sialic acid, with a predominance of the former.
          Further, it has also been demonstrated that the commercially available recombinant
FSH preparation differs in the amounts of FSH with an isoelectric point (pl) of below 4
(considered the acidic isoforms) when compared to pituitary, serum or post-menopausal urine
FSH (Ulloa-Aguirre et al. 1995). The amount of acidic isoforms in the urinary preparations was
much higher as compared to the CHO cell derived recombinant products, Gonal-f (Merck
Serono) and Puregon (Schering Plough) (Andersen et al. 2004). This must reflect a lower molar
content of sialic acid in the recombinant FSH since the content of negatively-charged glycan
modified with sulphate is low in recombinant FSH. The lower sialic acid content, compared to
natural FSH, is a feature of both commercially available recombinant FSH products and may
reflect a limitation in the manufacturing process.
          The circulatory life-time of FSH has been documented for materials from a variety of
sources. Some of these materials have been fractionated on the basis of overall molecular
charge, as characterised by their pl, in which more acid equates to a higher negative charge.
As previously stated the major contributor to overall molecular charge is the total sialic content
of each FSH molecule. For instance, rFSH (Organon) has a sialic acid content of around 8
mol/mol, whereas urine-derived FSH has a higher sialic acid content (de Leeuw et al. 1996).
The corresponding plasma clearance rates in the rat are 0.34 and 0.14 ml/min (Ulloa-Aguirre et
al. 2003). In another example where a sample of recombinant FSH was split into high and low
pl fractions, the in vivo potency of the high pl (lower sialic acid content) fraction was decreased
and it had a shorter plasma half-life (D' Antonioet al. 1999). It has also been reported that the
more basic FSH circulating during the later stages of the ovulation cycle is due to the down
regulation of 2,3 sialyl-transferase in the anteri or pituitary which is caused by increasing levels
of estradiol (Damian-Matsumara et al. 1999. Ulloa-Aguirre et al. 2001). Results for the 2,6
sialyl-transferase have not been reported.
          Thus, as set out above, recombinant proteins expressed using the CHO system will
differ from their natural counterparts in their type of terminal sialic acid linkages. This is an
                                                   3

important consideration in the production of biologicals for pharmaceutical use since the
carbohydrate moieties may contribute to the pharmacological attributes of the molecule.
         The present applicants have developed a human derived recombinant FSH which is the
subject of      International  Patent    Application   No.    PCT/GB2009/000978,       published    as
W02009/127826A. Recombinant FSH with a mixture of both 2,3 and 2,6-linked sialic acid
was made by engineering a human cell line to express both rFSH and 2,3 sialyltransferase.
The expressed product is highly acidic and carries a mix of both 2,3- and 2,6-linked sialic
acids; the latter provided by the endogenous sialyl transferase activity. It was found that the
type of sialic acid linkage, 2,3- or 2,6-, can hav    e a dramatic influence on biological clearance
of FSH.     Recombinant FSH with a mixture of both 2, 3 and 2,6-linked sialic acid has two
advantages over rFSH expressed in conventional CHO cells: first the material is more highly
sialylated due to the combined activities of the two sialyltransferases; and secondly the material
more closely resembles the natural FSH. This is likely to be more biologically appropriate
compared to CHO cell derived recombinant products that have produce only 2,3 linked sialic
acid (Kagawa et al, 1988, Takeuchi et al, 1988, Svensson et al., 1990) and have decreased
sialic acid content (Ulloa-Aguirre et al. 1995., Andersen et al. 2004).
         The     rFSH      product    disclosed    in    International    Patent   Application    No.
PCT/GB2009/000978 contains branched glycan moieties. FSH comprises glycans (attached to
the FSH glycoproteins) and these glycans may contain a wide variety of structures. As is well
known in the art, branching (of a glycan) can occur with the result that the glycan may have 1,
2, 3, 4 or more terminal sugar residues or "antennae"; glycans with 1, 2, 3 or 4 terminal sugar
residues or "antennae" are referred to respectively as mono-antennary, di-antennary, tri
antennary or tetra-antennary structures.        Glycans may have sialylation presence on mono
antennary and/or di-antennary and/or tri-antennary and/or tetra-antennary structures. An
example rFSH disclosed in International Patent Application No. PCT/GB2009/000978 included
mono-sialylated, di- sialylated, tri- sialylated and tetra- sialylated glycan structures with relative
amounts as follows: 9-15% mono-sialylated; 27 - 30% di--sialylated; 30 - 36% tri--sialylated
and 25 - 29 % tetra--sialylated. As is well known, a mono-sialylated glycan structure carries
one sialic acid residue; a di-sialylated glycan structure carries two sialic acid residues; a tri
sialylated glycan structure carries three sialic acid residues; and a tetra-sialylated glycan
structure carries four sialic acid residues. Herein, terminology such as "X% mono-sialylated",
"X% di-sialylated", "X% tri-sialylated" or "X% tetra-sialylated" refers to the number of glycan
structures on FSH which are mono-, di, tri or tetra sialylated (respectively), expressed as a
percentage (X%) of the total number of glycan structures on the FSH which are sialylated in any
way (carry sialic acid). Thus, the phrase "30 - 36% tri-sialylated glycan structures" means that,
                                                   4

of the total number of glycan structures on the FSH which carry sialic acid residues (that is, are
sialylated), 30 to 36% of these glycan structures are tri sialylated (carry three sialic acid
residues). The applicants have surprisingly found that FSH having a specific amount of tetra
sialylated glycan structures (which is different to that of the example rFSH product disclosed in
PCT/GB2009/000978          mentioned above) is markedly more potent then recombinant FSH
products which are currently on the market.               The   amino   acid   sequence   of   the
applicant's products is the native sequence and isidentical to natural human FSH and existing
CHO-derived rFSH products. However, the present applicants have found that human derived
recombinant FSH products (i.e. recombinant FSH produced or expressed in a human cell line
e.g. made by engineering a human cell line) which have a mixture of both 2,3 and 2,6-linked
sialic acid and/or a specific amount of tetra-sialylated glycan structures may be particularly
effective when utilised in (e.g. individualised) COS protocols.
         According to the present invention in a first aspect there is provided a product (e.g. a
pharmaceutical composition) comprising follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient (e.g. a patient having serum AMH level of 0.05 pmol/L or
above, for example 0.5 pmol/L or above), wherein the product comprises a dose of, or a dose
equivalent to, 1-24 pg, for example 2-24 pg, for example 2 to 15 pg, human derived
recombinant FSH. Preferably the product comprises a dose of, or a dose equivalent to, 4.5 to
12.5 pg, for example 5 to 12.5 pg, for example 6 to 12.5 pg, for example 6.3 to 10.5 pg, human
derived recombinant FSH.
         According to the invention there is provided a product (e.g. a pharmaceutical
composition) comprising follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the treatment of infertility
in a patient having serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L (e.g. 0.05 pmol/L to 14.9 pmol/L), wherein
the product comprises a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 9 to 14 pg, for example 11 to
13 pg, for example 12 pg human derived recombinant FSH.          Preferably   the    FSH    is   a
recombinant FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH").           Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived
recombinant FSH. The dose provides an effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.
Preferably the treatment of infertility comprising a step of determining (e.g. measuring) the
serum AMH level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having serum AMH
level of <15 pmol/L (e.g. 0.05 pmol/L to 14.9 pmol/L).
         According to the invention in a further aspect there is provided a product (e.g. a
pharmaceutical composition) comprising follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of 215 pmol/L, wherein the product
comprises a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 12.5 pg, for example 6 to 10.5 pg
human derived recombinant FSH.            Preferably the FSH is a recombinant FSH ("rFSH" or
"recFSH").    Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived recombinant FSH.          The dose
                                                   5

provides an effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.           Preferably the treatment of
infertility comprising a step of determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of the patient,
and administering the dose to a patient having serum AMH level of 215 pmol/L.                 In one
embodiment, the product is for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH
level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L, and the product is for administration at a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose
equivalent to, 5 to 12 pg, for example 7 to 12 pg, for example 8.7 to 10 pg, human derived
recombinant FSH (preferably 9 to 10 pg human derived recombinant FSH) In this embodiment,
the treatment of infertility may comprise a step of determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH
level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having serum AMH level of 15 to
24.9 pmol/L.    In another embodiment, the product is for use in the treatment of infertility in a
patient having serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L, and the product is for administration at a
(e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 12 pg, for example 6 to 9 pg, for example 7 to 8
pghuman derived recombinant FSH (preferably 7.3 to 8 pg human derived recombinant FSH).
In this embodiment, the treatment of infertility may comprise a step of determining (e.g.
measuring) the serum AMH level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having
serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L.         In another embodiment, the product is for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of    35 pmol/L, and the product is for
administration at a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 11 pg, for example 6.3 to 7
pg, human derived recombinant FSH (preferably 6 to 7 pg human derived recombinant FSH).
In this embodiment, the treatment of infertility may comprise a step of determining (e.g.
measuring) the serum AMH level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having
serum AMH level of        35 pmol/L.
          The doses above may be for treatment of infertility in the patient' s (subject' s) first
stimulation protocol. It will be appreciated that for further stimulation cycles, the doses may be
adjusted according to actual ovarian response in the first cycle.
          The applicants have found that it is generally necessary to retrieve in the region of nine
oocytes in order to enable selection of two high quality oocytes for transfer.
          The applicants have found that for subjects having low AMH (AMH < 15 pmol/L per litre)
a reasonably high dose of recombinant FSH is required (for example 12 pg) to achieve this. At
this dose, 8 to 14 oocytes will be retrieved from 60% of subjects with low AMH.           This is an
unexpected and significant improvement over treatment of subjects with low AMH treated with
150 IU Gonal-f, where 8 to 14 oocytes are retrieved from only 33% of subjects. The applicants
have found that there is no need to adjust this dose according to the bodyweight of the patient.
           However, 60 % of the population (and 80% of women under 30 treated for infertility)
have high AMH (that is, AMH of 215 pmol/L).               For these subjects it is generally fairly
straightforward to retrieve a mean of 9 to 11 oocytes; the problem with stimulation protocols is
                                                   6

the risk of OHSS. The applicants have found that in patients dosed at low doses of human
recombinant FSH that there is a relationship between oocytes retrieved and body weight of the
subject. This means that there may be a risk associated with treatment with a fixed dose of
FSH (which is usual in the art). The present applicants have established a relationship between
dose of FSH and AMH level and weight of the subject which provides an improved safety profile
(reduced risk of OHSS) with acceptable or improved oocyte retrieval compared to the known
treatment protocols (see example 10).
         According to the invention in a further aspect there is provided a product (e.g. a
pharmaceutical composition) comprising follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of 215 pmol/L, wherein the product is
for administration at a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.09 to 0.19 pg (for example
0.09 to 0.17 pg) human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient. Preferably
the treatment of infertility comprises a step of determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH
level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having serum AMH level of 215
pmol/L.    In one embodiment, the product is for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient
having serum AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L, and the product is for administration at a (e.g.
daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.14 to 0.19 pg human derived recombinant FSH
(preferably 0.15 to 0.16 pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg bodyweight of the patient.
In this embodiment, the treatment of infertility may comprise a step of determining (e.g.
measuring) the serum AMH level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having
serum AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L.         In another embodiment, the product is for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L, and the product
is for administration at a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.11 to 0.14 pg human
derived recombinant FSH (preferably 0.12 to 0.13 pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg
bodyweight of the patient. In this embodiment, the treatment of infertility may comprise a step of
determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of the patient, and administering the dose to
a patient having serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L.           In a still further embodiment, the
product is for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of         35
pmol/L, and the product is for administration at a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.10
to 0.11 pg human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient.                   In this
embodiment, the treatment of infertility may comprise a step of determining (e.g. measuring) the
serum AMH level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having serum AMH
level of      35 pmol/L.      Preferably the FSH is a recombinant FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH").
Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived recombinant FSH.              The doses provide an
effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.
                                                   7

          The doses above may be for treatment of infertility in the patient' s (subject' s) first
stimulation protocol. It will be appreciated that for further stimulation cycles, the doses may be
adjusted according to actual ovarian response in the first cycle.
          According to the invention in a still further aspect there is provided a product (e.g. a
pharmaceutical composition) comprising follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L, wherein the product is
for administration at a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.15 to 0.21 pg, (for example
0.19 to 0.21 pg) human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient. Preferably
the treatment of infertility comprises a step of determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH
level of the patient, and administering the dose to a patient having serum AMH level of <15
pmol/L. However, it is not required that patients having serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L are
dosed by body weight.              It will be appreciated that these doses may be readily converted
to treat patients with dosing according to their BMI, using conversions well known in the art.
          The product (e.g. pharmaceutical compostion) may be for use in the treatment of
infertility in a patient having serum AMH of 5.0-14.9 pmol/L, wherein the product comprises a
dose of, or dose equivalent to, 6 to 18 pg, for example 8 to 11 pg, for example 8.5 to 10.2 pg
human derived recombinant FSH. The product may be for use in the treatment of infertility in a
patient having serum AMH 15.0-29.9 pmol/L, wherein the product comprises a dose of, or a
dose equivalent to, 4.8 to 15 pg, for example 6 to 9 pg, for example 6.8 to 8.5 pg human
derived recombinant FSH. The product may be for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient
having serum AMH 30-44.9 pmol/L, wherein the product comprises a dose of, or a dose
equivalent to, 3.6 to 12 pg, for example 4 to 7 pg, for example 5.1 to 6.8 pg human derived
recombinant FSH. The product may be for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient having
serum AMH 45 pmol/L or greater, wherein the product comprises a dose of, or a dose
equivalent to, 2 to 9 pg, for example 2.4 to 9 pg (for example 3.4 to 5.1 pg) or 2 to 5 pg human
derived recombinant FSH. The product may comprise follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use
in the treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH of 5 pmol/L or less, wherein the
product comprises a dose of, or a dose equivalent to 7.2 to 24 pg, for example 10 to 15 pg for
example 10.2 to 13.6 pg, human derived recombinant FSH. The product may be for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient wherein the product comprises a dose of, or dose equivalent
to, 4.8 to 18 pg, for example 6 to 11 pg, for example 6.8 to 10.2 pg human derived recombinant
FSH. Preferably the FSH is a recombinant FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH"). Preferably the FSH is a
human cell line derived recombinant FSH.
           Preferably the rFSH (e.g. human cell line derived recombinant FSH) includes 2,3- and
2,6- sialylation. The FSH (rFSH) for use according to the invention may have 1% to 99% of
the total sialylation being 2,3-sialylation. The FS H (rFSH) according to the invention may have
                                                     8

1% to 99% of the total sialylation being 2,6-sialyl ation. Preferably, 50 to 70%, for example 60
to 69%, for example about 65%, of the total sialylation is 2,3-sialylation. Preferably 25 to 50%,
for example 30 to 50 %, for example 31 to 38%, for example about 35%, of the total sialylation
is 2,6- sialylation.
         Preferably the rFSH (e.g. human cell line derived recombinant FSH) includes mono-, di
  tri- and tetra-sialylated glycan structures, wherein 15-24%, for example 17-23%            of the
sialylated glycan structures are tetrasialylated glycan structures (e.g. as shown by WAX
analysis of charged glycans, as set out in the Examples below). The FSH comprises glycans
(attached to the FSH glycoproteins). It is well known that glycans in FSH may contain a wide
variety of structures. These may include combinations of mono, bi, tri and tetra-antennary
glycans. Herein, terminology such as "X% of the sialylated glycan structures are tetrasialylated
glycan structures" refers to the number of glycan structures on the FSH which are tetra
sialylated, i.e. carry four sialic acid residues, expressed as a percentage (X%) of the total
number of glycan structures on the FSH which are sialylated in any way (carry sialic acid).
Thus, the phrase "15-24% of the sialylated glycan structures are tetrasialylated glycan
structures" means that, of the total number of glycan structures on FSH which carry sialic acid
residues (that is, are sialylated), 15 to 24% of these glycan structures are tetra sialylated (carry
four sialic acid residues).
         The rFSH may be present as a single isoform or as a mixture of isoforms.
         The applicants have devised "individualised" COS protocols wherein specific doses of
recombinant FSH having specific characteristics are used to treat patients based on their
specific AMH levels, thereby increasing the likelihood of adequate response to stimulation (e.g.
in patients having a low response potential), and/or decreased risk of OHSS (e.g. in patients
classed as high or excessive responders).
         The serum level of AMH may be determined (e.g. measured) by any method known in
the art. Preferably the serum AMH level is measured using the AMH Gen-II enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay, a kit (Beckman Coulter, Inc., Webster, Texas).         This assay can detect
can detect AMH concentrations greater than 0.57 pmol/L with a minimum limit of quantitation of
1.1 pmol/L. Other assays may be used.
          Herein, serum AMH values are generally recited in terms of pmol/L.          This may be
converted to ng/mL using the conversion equation 1ng/ml AMH = 7.1 pmol/L AMH.
         Herein the terms "patient" and "subject" are used interchangeably.
         The product (e.g. pharmaceutical composition) preferably comprises a daily dose of, or
a daily dose equivalent to, the amounts of human derived rFSH defined above, herein, and in
the claims.      The (daily) dose may be an initial dose (i.e. it may be reduced, increased, or
maintained during the treatment).
                                                  9

          The product (e.g. pharmaceutical composition) may be for (daily) administration of FSH
starting on day one of treatment and continuing for seven to thirteen days, for example nine to
thirteen days, for example 10 to 13 days, for example 10 to 11 days.               The product (e.g.
pharmaceutical composition) may be for administration 12 to 16, e.g. 13 to 15, e.g. 14 days
after administration of (e.g. after initiation of administration of, e.g. after initiation of daily
administration of)       a GnRH agonist (e.g. Synarel, Lupron, Decapeptyl). The product (e.g.
pharmaceutical composition) may be for administration with a GnRH agonist. The product (e.g.
pharmaceutical composition) may be for administration prior to administration of a GnRH
antagonist (e.g. ganirelix, cetrorelix), for example for administration five or six days prior to
administration of a GnRH antagonist. The product (e.g. pharmaceutical composition) may be
for administration with a GnRH antagonist.         Preferably the product (e.g. pharmaceutical
composition) is for administration prior to administration of a high (ovulatory) dose of hCG (for
example 4,000 to 11,000 IU hCG, e.g. 5,000 IU hCG, 10,000 IU hCG etc.; or 150 to 350
microgram recombinant hCG, for example 250 microgram recombinant hCG) to induce final
follicular maturation.
           It will be appreciated that the product may be for dosing at frequencies more (or less)
than daily, in which case the relevant doses will be equivalent to the (daily) doses specified
herein.
           Herein the term "treatment of infertility" includes treatment of infertility by controlled
ovarian stimulation (COS) or methods which include a step or stage of controlled ovarian
stimulation (COS), for example Intra Uterine Insemination (IUI), in vitro fertilisation (IVF), or
intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). The term "treatment of infertility" includes treatment of
infertility by ovulation induction (01) or by methods which include a step or stage of ovulation
induction (01).      The term "treatment of infertility" includes treatment of infertility in a subject
having tubal or unexplained infertility, including treatment of infertility in a subject having
endometriosis, for example stage I or stage II endometriosis, and/or in a subject having
anovulatory infertility, for example WHO type 11anovulatory infertility, and/or in a subject with a
partner with male factor infertility.      The product (or composition) may be for (use in) the
treatment of infertility (and/or for controlled         ovarian  stimulation) in  a subject having
endometriosis, for example in a subject having stage I or stage II endometriosis, as defined by
The American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) classification system for the various
stages of endometriosis, (stage IV most severe; stage I least severe) [American Society for
Reproductive Medicine. Revised American Society for Reproductive Medicine classification of
endometriosis: 1996. Fertil Steril 1997; 67,817 821.].
                                                   10

          The product (composition) may be for (use in) the treatment of infertility (and/or for
controlled ovarian stimulation) in a subject having normal serum FSH level of 1 to 16 IU/L, for
example 1 to 12 IU/L, in the early follicular phase.
          The product (composition) may be for (use in) the treatment of infertility (and/or for
controlled ovarian stimulation) in a subject aged 18 to 42 years, for example 25 to 37 years.
The product may be for (use in) the treatment of infertility (and/or for controlled ovarian
stimulation) in a subject having BMI >1 and BMI < 35 kg/M 2 , for example a subject having BMI
>18 and BMI < 25 kg/M 2 , for example a subject having BMI >20 and BMI < 25 kg/M 2 .
          The rFSH may preferably include 27 - 33%, for example 30 - 32%, tri-sialylated glycan
structures. The rFSH may preferably include 24 - 33%, for example 26 - 30%, di-sialylated
glycan structures. The rFSH may preferably include 12 - 21%, for example 15 - 17%, mono
sialylated glycan structures. The rFSH preferably includes mono-sialylated, di- sialylated, tri
sialylated and tetra- sialylated glycan structures with relative amounts as follows: 15 to 17%
mono-sialylated; 26 - 30% di--sialylated; 27 - 33% (e.g. 29 to 32%, e.g 30-32%, e.g 30 to 31%)
tri--sialylated and 17 - 23 % tetra--sialylated (e.g. as shown by WAX analysis of charged
glycans, as set out in the Examples). The rFSH may include from 0 to 7%, for example 0.1 to
7%, for example 3 to 6%, for example 5 to 6%, neutral sialylated structures.             The FSH
comprises glycans (attached to the FSH glycoproteins). Herein, terminology such as "X%
mono-sialylated", "X% di-sialylated", "X% tri-sialylated" or "X% tetra-sialylated" refers to the
number of glycan structures on FSH which are mono-, di, tri or tetra sialylated (respectively),
expressed as a percentage (X%) of the total number of glycan structures on the FSH which are
sialylated in any way (carry sialic acid).     Thus, the phrase "27 - 33% tri-sialylated glycan
structures" means that, of the total number of glycan structures on FSH which carry sialic acid
residues (that is, are sialylated), 27 to 33% of these glycan structures are tri sialylated (carry
three sialic acid residues).
          The rFSH may have a sialic acid content [expressed in terms of a ratio of moles of sialic
acid to moles of protein] of 6 mol/mol or greater, for example between 6 mol/mol and 15
mol/mol, e.g between 8 mol/mol and 14 mol/mol, for example between 10 mol/mol and 14
mol/mol, e.g between 11 mol/mol and 14 mol/mol, e.g between 12 mol/mol and 14 mol/mol,
e.g. between 12 mol/mol and 13 mol/mol.          The rFSH may be produced or expressed in a
human cell line.
          The FSH (rFSH) for use according to the invention may have 1% to 99% of the total
sialylation being f,3-sialylation. The rFSH may have     10% or more of the total sialylation being
2,3-sialylation. For example, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60,    70, 80 or 90% or more of the total sialylation
may be 2,3-sialylation. The rFSH may preferably incl ude 2,3-sialylation in an amount which is
from 50 to 70% of the total sialylation, for example from 60 to 69% of the total sialylation, for
                                                 11

example from 63 to 67%, for example around 65% of the total sialylation. The FSH (rFSH) for
use according to the invention may have 1% to 99% of the total sialylation being 2,6
sialylation.       The rFSH (or rFSH preparation) of the invention may have 5% or more, for
example 5% to 99%, of the total sialylation being 2 6-sialylation. The rFSH may have 50% or
less of the total sialylation being 2,6-sialylation . The rFSH may preferably include 2,6
sialylation in an amount which is from 25 to 50% of the total sialylation, for example from 30 to
50% of the total sialylation, for example from 31 to 38%, for example around 35% of the total
sialylation.      By sialylation it is meant the amount of sialic residues present on the FSH
carbohydrate structures. 2,3-sialylation means sial ylation at the 2,3 position (as is well known
in the art) and 2,6 sialylation at the 2,6 position  (also well known in the art). Thus "% of the
total sialylation may be c2,3 sialylation" refers to    the % of the total number of sialic acid
residues present in the FSH which are sialylated in the 2,3 position. The term "% of the total
sialylation being 2,6-sialylation" refers to the % of the total number of sialic acid residues
present in the FSH which are sialylated in the 2,6 position.
         The rFSH may have a sialic acid content (amount of sialylation per FSH molecule) of
(based on the mass of protein, rather than the mass of protein plus carbohydrate) of 6% or
greater (e.g. between 6% and 15%, e.g. between 7% and 13%, e.g. between 8% and 12%, e.g.
between 11% and 15%, e.g. between 12% and 14%) by mass.
         The rFSH may be rFSH or a rFSH preparation in which 16 % or fewer (e.g. 0.1 to 16%)
of the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) bisecting N-acetylglucosamine (bisecting GIcNAc or
bisGlcNAc).        Preferably the rFSH (or rFSH preparation) is an rFSH or rFSH preparation in
which 8 to 14.5% of the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) a bisecting N-acetylglucosamine
(bisecting GIcNAc or bisGlcNAc).
          It will be understood that FSH comprises glycans attached to the FSH glycoproteins. It
will also be understood that 100% of the glycans refers to or means all of the glycans attached
to the FSH glycoproteins. Thus, herein, the terminology "8 to 14.5% of the glycans comprise
(carry) bisecting N-acetylglucosamine" means that 8 to 14.5% of the total number of glycans
attached to the FSH glycoproteins include/carry bisecting N-acetylglucosamine; "16% or fewer
of the glycans comprise (carry) bisecting N-acetylglucosamine" means that 16 % or fewer of the
total number of glycans attached to the FSH glycoproteins include/carry bisecting N
acetylglucosamine, and so on.
         The      applicants   have found   that recombinant   FSH   (rFSH    preparations;  rFSH
compositions) in which 16% or fewer (e.g. 8 to 14.5%) of the glycans comprised in the FSH
glycoproteins carry bisecting GlcNac may have advantageous pharmacokinetic properties. It is
believed the advantageous properties may arise because the amount of glycans which carry
bisecting GlcNac is similar to that in the human urinary derived product Bravelle, which is rather
                                                  12

less than that of other recombinant FSH             preparations such as those disclosed in
W02012/017058.
         The rFSH (or rFSH preparation) may be an rFSH or rFSH preparation in which 20% or
more of the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) N-Acetylgalactosamine (GaINAc), for example in
which 20% or more of the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) a terminal GaINAc. Preferably the rFSH
(or rFSH preparation) is an FSH or FSH preparation in which the 40 to 55%, for example 42%
to 52%, of the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) GaINAc.             Preferably the rFSH (or rFSH
preparation) is an FSH or FSH preparation in which the 40 to 55%, for example 42% to 52%, of
the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) terminal GaINAc.
         It will be understood that FSH comprises glycans attached to the FSH glycoproteins. It
will also be understood that 100% of the glycans refers to or means all of the glycans attached
to the FSH glycoproteins. Thus, herein, the terminology "wherein 20% or more of the glycans
comprise (e.g. carry) GaINAc" means that 20% or more of the total number of glycans attached
to the FSH glycoproteins include/carry N-Acetylgalactosamine (GaINAc);           "40 to 55%, for
example 42% to 52%, of the glycans comprise (e.g. carry) terminal GaINAc" means that 40 to
55 %, for example 42% to 52%, of the total number of glycans attached to the FSH
glycoproteins include/carry terminal GaINAc, and so on.
         It appears that the availability of the 2,6- linkage    increases the number of tetra
sialylated structures, compared to CHO cell derived products which have only the @,3- linkage
available. The applicants have also found that their rFSH is distinguished over other approved
products because of the sugar composition: it includes, or may include, a specific amount of
GalNac. This may be linked to tetrasialylation and potency because the 2,6- sialylation is
associated with GalNac.       In other words, the present applicants have developed an rFSH
product which includes specific characteristics (2,6- linker sites, GalNac) which provide rFSH
with high degree of sialylation, which appears to lead to improved potency in vivo.
         The rFSH (or rFSH preparation) may have 16 to 24% of the glycans comprising (e.g.
terminal) 1 fucose-lewis, for example 16.5 to 18% of the glycans comprising (e.g. terminal) 1
fucose-lewis. The rFSH (or rFSH preparation) may have 1.5 to 4.5%, for example 2 to 4%, for
example 3.7%, of the glycans comprising (e.g. terminal) 2 fucose -lewis.       The   content  of
fucose-lewis may have an effect on potency.
         The rFSH may be produced or expressed in a human cell line, for example a Per.C6
cell line, a HEK293 cell line, a HT1080 cell line etc.. This may simplify (and render more
efficient) the production method because manipulation and control of e.g. the cell growth
medium to retain sialylation may be less critical than with known processes. The method may
also be more efficient because there is little basic rFSH produced compared to production of
known rFSH products; more acidic rFSH is produced and separation/removal of basic FSH is
                                                13

less problematic. The rFSH may be produced or expressed in a PER.C6@ cell line, a PER.C6@
derived cell line or a modified PER.C6@ cell line. rFSH which is produced or expressed in a
human cell line (e.g. PER.C6@ cell line, HEK293 cell line, HT1080 cell line etc.) will include
some 2,6-linked sialic acids (2,6 sialylation) pro        vided by endogenous sialyl transferase
activity [of the cell line] and will include some 2, 3-linked sialic acids (2,3 sialylation) provided
by endogenous sialyl transferase activity. The cell line may be modified using 2,3
sialyltransferase. The cell line may be modified using 2,6-sialyltransferase. Alternatively or
additionally, the rFSH may include 2,6-linked siali c acids (2,6 sialylation) provided by
endogenous sialyl transferase activity [of the cell line].       Herein, the term "human derived
recombinant FSH" means recombinant FSH which is produced or expressed in a human cell
line (e.g. recombinant FSH made by engineering a human cell line).
         The rFSH may be produced using 2,3- and/or 2,6-sialy           Itransferase. In an example,
rFSH is produced using 2,3- sialyltransferase. The r FSH may include 2,6-linked sialic acids
(2,6 sialylation) provided by endogenous sialyl tra nsferase activity.
         The product may be a pharmaceutical composition. The pharmaceutical composition is
for the treatment of infertility. The treatment of infertility may comprise assisted reproductive
technologies (ART), ovulation induction or intrauterine insemination (IUI). The pharmaceutical
composition may be used, for example, in medical indications where known FSH preparations
are used.
         The product or composition can be formulated into well-known compositions for any
route of drug administration, e.g. oral, rectal, parenteral, transdermal (e.g. patch technology),
intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, intrasusternal, intravaginal, intraperitoneal, local
(powders, ointments or drops) or as a buccal or nasal spray. A typical composition comprises a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, such as aqueous solution, non toxic excipients, including
salts and preservatives, buffers and the like, as described in Remington' s Pharmaceutical
Sciences fifteenth edition (Matt Publishing Company, 1975), at pages 1405 to 1412 and 1461
87, and the national formulary XIV fourteenth edition (American Pharmaceutical Association,
1975), among others.
         Examples of suitable aqueous and non-aqueous pharmaceutical carriers, diluents,
solvents or vehicles include water, ethanol, polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol,
polyethylene glycol, and the like), carboxymethylcellulose and suitable mixtures thereof,
vegetable oils (such as olive oil), and injectible organic esters such as ethyl oleate.     The
compositions of the present invention also can contain additives such as but not limited to
preservatives, wetting agents, emulsifying agents, surfactants and dispersing agents.
Antibacterial and antifungal agents can be included to prevent growth of microbes and includes,
for example, m-cresol, benzyl alcohol, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and the like.
                                                   14

If a preservative is included, benzyl alcohol, phenol and/or m-cresol are preferred; however, the
preservative is by no means limited to these examples. Furthermore, it may be desirable to
include isotonic agents such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like.           The     product   or
composition may further comprise a salt comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable alkali metal
cation selected from the group consisting of Na*- or K*- salts, or a combination thereof.
Preferably      the    salt   is    a    Na+-     salt,  for    example      NaCI     or     Na2 SO 4 .
         Preferably the product or composition comprises recombinant FSH and one or more of
Polysorbate 20, L-methionine, phenol, disodium sulphate and sodium phosphate buffer.
         In some cases, to effect prolonged action it is desirable to slow the absorption of FSH
(and other active ingredients, if present) from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This can
be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material with
poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of FSH then depends upon its rate of dissolution
which, in turn, can depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively, delayed
absorption of a parenterally administered FSH combination form is accomplished by dissolving
or suspending the FSH combination in an oil vehicle. Injectable depot forms can be made by
forming microencapsule matrices of the FSH (and other agents, if present) in biodegradable
polymers such as polylactide-polyglycolide. Depending upon the ratio of FSH to polymer and
the nature of the particular polymer employed, the rate of FSH release can be controlled.
Examples of other biodegradable polymers include polyvinylpyrrolidone, poly(orthoesters),
poly(anhydrides) etc. Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the FSH in
liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissues.
         Injectable formulations can be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a bacterial
retaining filter, or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions
which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable medium just prior
to use. Injectable formulations can be supplied in any suitable container, e.g. vial, pre-filled
syringe, injection cartridges, and the like.
        The product or composition may be formulated for single use or for multiple use
(multiple dose). If the product or composition is formulated for multiple use, it is preferred that a
preservative is included. If a preservative is included, benzyl alcohol, phenol and/or m-cresol
are preferred; however, the preservative is by no means limited to these examples. The single
use or multiple use formulated product or composition may further comprise a salt comprising a
pharmaceutically acceptable alkali metal cation selected from the group consisting of Na*- or
K*- salts, or a combination thereof. Preferably the salt is a Na+- salt, for example NaCI or
Na 2SO 4.
        The product or composition may be included in a container such as a vial, prefilled
cartridge (e.g. for single administration or multiple use) or an injection device such as a "pen"
                                                  15

for e.g. administration of multiple doses .
          The product or composition may be a formulation (e.g. injectable formulation) including
FSH (optionally with hCG, LH, LH activity etc.) The LH activity, if present, may originate from
LH or human chorionic gonadotropin, hCG.           If there is more than one active ingredient (i.e.
FSH and e.g. hCG or LH) these may be suitable for administration separately or together. If
administered separately, administration can be sequential. The product can be supplied in any
appropriate package. For example, a product can include a number of containers (e.g. pre
filled syringes or vials) containing either FSH or hCG, or a combination (or combination) of both
FSH and hCG. The hCG may be recombinant hCG or urinary hCG. If the product includes a
number of containers (e.g. pre-filled syringes or vials) containing FSH, e.g. recombinant FSH,
each container may include the same amount of FSH. One or more containers may include
different amounts of FSH. The syringes or vials may be packaged in a blister package or other
means to maintain sterility. Any product can optionally contain instructions for using the FSH
(and e.g. hCG if present) formulations.         The pH and exact concentration of the various
components of the pharmaceutical composition are adjusted in accordance with routine practice
in this field.    See GOODMAN and GILMAN' s THE PHARMACOLOGICAL BASIS FOR
THERAPEUTICES,         7 th ed. In a preferred embodiment, the compositions of the invention are
supplied as compositions for parenteral administration. General methods for the preparation of
the parenteral formulations are known in the art and are described in REMINGTON; THE
SCIENCE      AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY, supra, at pages 780-820. The parenteral
compositions can be supplied in liquid formulation or as a solid which will be mixed with a sterile
injectable medium just prior to administration.        In an especially preferred embodiment, the
parenteral compositions are supplied in dosage unit form for ease of administration and
uniformity of dosage.
         According to the present invention in a further aspect there is provided a method of
treatment of infertility comprising: (a) measuring the serum AMH level of a subject; and (b)
administration to the subject a dose of, or a dose equivalent to, 1-24 pg, for example 2-24 pg,
for example 2 to 15 pg, human derived recombinant FSH.                Preferably the dose is, or is
equivalent to, 4.5 to 12.5 pg, for example 5 to 12.5 pg, for example 6 to 12.5 pg, for example
6.3 to 12 pg, human derived recombinant FSH.
         According to the present invention in a further aspect there is provided a method of
treatment of infertility comprising: (a) determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of a
subject; and (b) administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 9 to 14 pg, for
example 11 to 13 pg, for example 12 pg human derived recombinant follicle stimulating
hormone (FSH) to a (the) subject having serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L (e.g. 0.05 pmol/L to
14.9 pmol/L). Preferably the FSH is a recombinant FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH"). Preferably the
                                                  16

FSH is a human cell line derived recombinant FSH. The dose provides an effective response
while minimising risk of OHSS.
         According to the present invention in a further aspect there is provided a method of
treatment of infertility comprising: (a) determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of a
subject; and (b) administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 12.5 pg human
derived recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) to a (the) subject having serum AMH
level of 215 pmol/L. The (e.g. daily) dose may be, or be equivalent to, 6 to 10 pg human
derived recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (FSH).      Preferably the FSH is a recombinant
FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH"). Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived recombinant FSH.
The dose provides an effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.
         In one embodiment, the method includes a step of administering a (e.g. daily) dose of,
or dose equivalent to, 5 to 12 pg, for example 7 to 12 pg, for example 8.7 to 10 pg, human
derived recombinant FSH (preferably 9 to 10 pg human derived recombinant FSH) to a (the)
subject having serum AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L          In another embodiment, the method
includes a step of administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 12 pg human
derived recombinant FSH (for example 7 to 12 pg, for example 6 to 9 pg, for example 7 to 8 pg,
for example 7.3 to 8 pg human derived recombinant FSH) to a (the) subject having serum AMH
level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L. In another embodiment, the method includes a step of administering
a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 11 pg human derived recombinant FSH (for
example 6 to 7 pg, for example 6.3 to 7 pg, human derived recombinant FSH) to a (the) subject
having serum AMH level of      35 pmol/L.
         According to the present invention in a further aspect there is provided a method of
treatment of infertility comprising: (a) determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of a
subject; and (b) administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.09 to 0.19 pg (for
example 0.09 to 0.17 pg) human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the subject,
wherein the subject has serum AMH level of 215 pmol/L. Preferably the FSH is a recombinant
FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH"). Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived recombinant FSH.
The dose provides an effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.
         In one embodiment, the method includes a step of administering a (e.g. daily) dose of,
or dose equivalent to, 0.14 to 0.19 pg human derived recombinant FSH (preferably 0.15 to 0.16
pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg bodyweight of the subject, the subject having
serum AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L . In another embodiment, the method includes a step of
administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.11 to 0.14 pg human derived
recombinant FSH (preferably 0.12 to 0.13 pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg
bodyweight of the subject, the subject having serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L. In another
embodiment, the method includes a step of administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose
                                                 17

equivalent to, 0.10 to 0.11 pg human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the
subject, the subject having serum AMH level of 235 pmol/L.               Preferably the FSH is a
recombinant FSH ("rFSH" or "recFSH").         Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived
recombinant FSH. These doses provide an effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.
        According to the present invention in a further aspect there is provided a method of
treatment of infertility comprising: (a) determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of a
subject; and (b) administering a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.15 to 0.21 pg (for
example 0.19 to 0.21 pg) human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the subject,
wherein the subject has serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L.
        The administration preferably comprises a daily dose of, or a daily dose equivalent to,
the amount of FSH defined above and in the claims. The (daily) dose may be an initial dose (it
may be reduced, increased, or maintained during the treatment).
        The method may be a method of treatment of infertility in the patient' s (subject' s) first
stimulation protocol. It will be appreciated that for further stimulation cycles, the doses may be
adjusted according to actual ovarian response in the first cycle.
        According to the present invention in a further aspect there is provided a method of
treatment of infertility comprising: (a) determining (e.g. measuring) the serum AMH level of a
subject;
        and (b) if the subject has serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L (e.g. 0.05 pmol/L to 14.9
pmol/L), administering to the subject a dose of, or dose equivalent to, 10 to 14 pg, for example
11 to 13 pg, for example 12 pg, human derived recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (FSH);
or
         if the subject has serum AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L, administering to the subject a
dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.14 to 0.19 pg human derived recombinant FSH (preferably
0.15 to 0.16 pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg bodyweight of the subject; or
         if the subject has serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L pmol/L, administering to the
subject a dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.11 to 0.14 pg human derived recombinant FSH
(preferably 0.12 to 0.13 pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg bodyweight of the subject;
or
         if the subject has serum AMH level of 235 pmol/L pmol/L, administering to the subject a
dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.10 to 0.11 pg human derived recombinant FSH per kg
bodyweight of the subject.
         For a patient (subject) having serum AMH of 5.0-14.9 pmol/L, a dose of, or dose
equivalent to, 6 to 18 pg, for example 8 to 11 pg, for example 8.5 to 10.2 pg human derived
recombinant FSH may be administered. For a patient (subject) having serum AMH 15.0-29.9
pmol/L, a dose of, or a dose equivalent to, 4.8 to 15 pg, for example 6 to 9 pg, for example 6.8
                                                 18

to 8.5 pg human derived recombinant FSH may be administered. For a patient (subject) having
serum AMH 30-44.9 pmol/L, a dose of, or a dose equivalent to, 3.6 to 12 pg, for example 4 to 7
pg, for example 5.1 to 6.8 pg human derived recombinant FSH may be administered. For a
patient (subject) having serum AMH 45 pmol/L or greater, a dose of, or a dose equivalent to, 2
to 9 pg, for example 2.4 to 9 pg (for example 3.4 to 5.1 pg) or 2 to 5 pg human derived
recombinant FSH may be administered. For a patient (subject) having serum AMH of 5 pmol/L
or less, a dose of, or a dose equivalent to 7.2 to 24 pg, for example 10 to 15 pg for example
10.2 to 13.6 pg, human derived recombinant FSH may be administered. In some examples, a
dose of, or dose equivalent to, 4.8 to 18 pg, for example 6 to 11 pg, for example 6.8 to 10.2 pg
human derived recombinant FSH is administered. Preferably the FSH is a recombinant FSH
("rFSH" or "recFSH"). Preferably the FSH is a human cell line derived recombinant FSH. The
administration preferably comprises a daily dose of, or a daily dose equivalent to, the amount of
FSH defined above and in the claims.        The (daily) dose may be an initial dose (it may be
reduced, increased, or maintained during the treatment.
         Detailed description of the invention
The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the attached
drawings in which:
Figure 1 shows a plasmid map of the pFSHalpha/beta expression vector;
Figure 2 shows the 2,3-sialyltransferase (ST3GAL4) expression vector;
Figure 3 shows the 2,6-sialyltransferase (ST6GAL1 ) expression vector;
Figure 4 shows % abundance sialic acid distribution of examples of recombinant FSH produced
by PER.C6@ cells stably expressing FSH after engineering with 2,3- sialyltransferase;
Figure 5 shows % abundance of glycan charge distribution of examples of recombinant FSH
produced     by   PER.C6@     cells stably  expressing    FSH    after   engineering      with   2,3
sialyltransferase;
Figure 6 shows a comparison of concentration of inhibin-B following administration of 2251U
Gonal f (bottom line, dotted line) and 225 IU of the Example (top line, full line) of Invention;
Figure 7 shows the effect of body weight on oocytes retrieved in the low AMH treatment group
(Example 10, 10A); and
Figure 8 shows the effect of Body weight on oocytes retrieved in the high AMH treatment group.
Figs 1, 2 and 3: Plasmid maps of the pFSHalpha/beta ,pST3 and pST6 expression vectors.
CMV = Cytomegalovirus promoter, BGHp(A) = Bovine Growth Hormone poly-adenylation
sequence, fl ori = fl origin of replication, SV40 = Simian Virus 40 promoter, Neo =
Neomycin resistance marker, Hyg = Hygromycin resistance marker, SV40 p(A) = Simian
                                                 19

Virus 40 poly-adenylation sequence, FSH A = Follicle stimulating hormone alpha
polypeptide, FSH B = Follicle stimulating hormone beta polypeptide, ST3GAL4 = 2,3
sialyltransferase, ST6GAL1 = 2,6-sialyltransferase , ColEl = ColEl origin of replication,
Amp = ampicillin resistance marker.
Sequence Selection
Human FSH
         The coding region of the gene for the FSH alpha polypeptide was used to according to
Fiddes and Goodman. (1981). The sequence is banked as AH007338 and at the time of
construction there were no other variants of this protein sequence. The sequence is referred
herein as SEQ ID NO:1.
         The coding region of the gene for FSH beta polypeptide was used according to Keene
et al (1989). The sequence is banked as NM_000510 and at the time of construction there were
no other variants of this protein sequence. The sequence is referred herein as SEQ ID NO: 2
Sialvltransferase
         2,3-Sialyltransferase - The coding region of the gen e for beta-galactoside alpha-2,3
sialyltransferase 4 (2,3-sialyltransferase, ST3GAL 4) was used according to Kitagawa and
Paulson (1994). The sequence is banked as L23767 and referred herein as SEQ ID NO: 3.
         2,6-Sialyltransferase - The coding region of the gen e for beta-galactosamide alpha
2,6-sialyltransferase 1 (2,6-sialyltransferase, ST 6GAL1) was used according to Grundmann et
al. (1990). The sequence is banked as NM_003032 and referred herein as SEQ ID NO: 4.
EXAMPLES
Example 1 Construction of the FSH expression vector
         The coding sequence of FSH alpha polypeptide (AH007338, SEQ ID NO: 1) and FSH
beta polypeptide (NM_003032, SEQ ID NO: 2) were amplified by PCR using the primer
combinations FSHa-fw and FSHa-rev and FSHb-fw and FSHb-rec respectively.
FSHa-fw 5' -CCAGGATCCGCCACCATGGATTACTACAGAAAAATATGC-3'                       (SEQ ID NO:9)
FSHa-rev 5' -GGATGGCTAGCTTAAGATTTGTGATAATAAC-3'                   (SEQ D NO:10)
FSHb-fw 5' -CCAGGCGCGCCACCATGAAGACACTCCAGTTTTTC-3'                      (EQ ID NO: 11)
FSHb-rev 5' -CCGGGTTAACTTATTATTCTTTCATTTCACCAAAGG-3'(SEQ                     ID NO: 12)
                                                 20

        The resulting amplified FSH beta DNA was digested with the restriction enzymes Ascl
and Hpal and inserted into the Ascl and Hpal sites on the CMV driven mammalian expression
vector carrying a neomycin selection marker. Similarly the FSH alpha DNA was digested with
BamHl and Nhel and inserted into the sites BamHl and Nhel on the expression vector already
containing the FSH beta polypeptide DNA.
        The vector DNA was used to transform the DH5cstrai n of E.coli. Colonies were picked
for amplification.  Colonies containing the vector containing both FSH alpha and beta were
selected for sequencing and all contained the correct sequences according to SEQ ID NO: 1
and SEQ ID NO: 2. Plasmid pFSH A+B#1 7 was selected for transfection (Figure 1).
Example 2 Construction of the ST3 expression vector
        The coding sequence of beta-galactoside alpha-2,3-sialyltransferase 4 (ST3, L23767,
SEQ ID NO: 3) was amplified by PCR using the primer combination 2,3STfw and 2,3STrev.
2,3STfw 5' -CCAGGATCCGCCACCATGTGTCCTGCAGGCTGGAAGC-3'(SEQ                       ID NO: 13)
2,3STrev 5' -TTTTTTTCTTAAGTCAGAAGGACGTGAGGTTCTTG-3'                  SEQ ID NO: 14)
        The resulting amplified ST3 DNA was digested with the restriction enzymes BamHl and
AflIl and inserted into the BamHl and AflIl sites on the CMV driven mammalian expression
vector carrying a hygromycin resistance marker. The vector was amplified as previously
described and sequenced. Clone pST3#1 (Figure 2) contained the correct sequence according
SEQ ID NO: 3 and was selected for transfection.
Example 3 Construction of the ST6 expression vector
        The coding sequence of beta-galactosamide alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase 1 (ST6,
NM_003032, SEQ ID NO: 4) was amplified by PCR using the primer combination 2,6STfw and
2,6STrev.
2,6STfw 5' -CCAGGATCCGCCACCATGATTCACACCAACCTGAAG-3'                     SEQ ID NO: 15)
2,6STrev 5' -TTTTTTTCTTAAGTTAGCAGTGAATGGTCCGG-3'                 (SEQD NO: 16)
        The resulting amplified ST6 DNA was digested with the restriction enzymes BamHl and
AflIl and inserted into the BamHl and AflIl sites on the CMV driven mammalian expression
vector carrying a hygromycin resistance marker. The vector was amplified as previously
                                              21

described and sequenced. Clone pST6#1 1 (Figure 3) contained the correct sequence
according SEQ ID NO: 4 and was selected for transfection.
Example 4 Stable expression of pFSH ax+p in PER.C6@ cells. Transfection isolation and
screening of clones.
         PER.C6@clones producing FSH were generated by expressing both polypeptide chains
of FSH from a single plasmid (see Example 1).
         To obtain stable clones a liposome based transfection agent with the pFSH
u+p construct. Stable clones were selected in VPRO supplemented with 10% FCS and
containing G418. Three weeks after transfection G418 resistant clones grew out. Clones were
selected for isolation. The isolated clones were cultured in selection medium until 70-80%
confluent. Supernatants were assayed for FSH protein content using an FSH selective ELISA
and pharmacological activity at the FSH receptor in cloned cell line, using a cAMP accumulation
assay. Clones expressing functional protein were progressed for culture expansion to 24 well, 6
well and T80 flasks.
         Studies to determine productivity and quality of the material from seven clones were
initiated in T80 flasks to generate sufficient material. Cells were cultured in supplemented
media as previously described for 7 days and the supernatant harvested. Productivity was
determined using the FSH selective ELISA. The isoelectric profile of the material was
determined by Isoelectric focusing (IEF), by methods known in the art.      Clones with sufficient
productivity and quality were selected for sialyltransferase engineering.
Example      5 Level of sialylation is increased           in cells that over express 8,3
sialyltransferase. Stable expression of pST3 in FSH                expressing PER.C6@      cells;
Transfection isolation and screening of clones.
         PER.C6@ clones producing highly sialylated FSH were generated by expressing 2,3
sialyltransferase from separate plasmids (Example 2) in PER.C6@ cells already expressing
both polypeptide chains of FSH (from Example 4). Clones produced from PER.C6@ cells as set
out in Example 4 were selected for their characteristics including productivity, good growth
profile, production of functional protein, and produced FSH which included some sialylation.
Stable clones were generated as previously described in Example 4. Clones were isolated,
expanded and assayed. The 2,3-sialyltransferase c Iones were adapted to serum free media
and suspension conditions.
         As before, clones were assayed using a FSH selective ELISA, functional response in an
FSH receptor cell line, IEF, metabolic clearance rate and Steelman Pohley analysis. Results
were compared to a commercially available recombinant FSH (Gonal-f, Serono) and the
                                                 22

parental FSH PER.C6@cell lines. FSH produced by most of the clones has significantly
improved sialylation (i.e. on average more FSH isoforms with high numbers of sialic acids)
compared to FSH expressed without 2,3- sialyltransf erase. In conclusion expression of FSH
together with sialyltransferase in PER.C6@cells resulted in increased levels of sialylated FSH
compared to cells expressing FSH only.
Example 6 Production and purification overview
         A procedure was developed to produce FSH in PER.C6@cells that were cultured in
suspension in serum free medium. The procedure is described below and was applied to
several FSH-producing PER.C6@cell lines.
          FSH from 2,3- clone (Example 5) was prepared using          a using a modification of the
method described by Lowry et al. (1976).
          For the production of PER.C6@-FSH, the cell lines were adapted to a serum- free
medium, i.e., Excell 525 (JRH Biosciences). The cells were first cultured to form a 70%-90%
confluent monolayer in a T80 culture flask. On passage the cells were re-suspended in the
serum free medium, Excell 525 + 4 mM L-Glutamine, to a cell density of 0.3x10 6 cells/ml. A 25
ml cell suspension was put in a 250 ml shaker flask and shaken at 100 rpm at 370C at 5% C02.
After reaching a cell density of > Ix10  6 cells/ml, the cells were sub-cultured to a cell density of
0.2 or 0.3x10 6 cells/ml and further cultured in shaker flasks at 370C, 5% C02 and 100 rpm.
          For the production of FSH, the cells were transferred to a serum- free production
medium, i.e., VPRO (JRH Biosciences), which supports the growth of PER.C6@cells to very
high cell densities (usually > 107 cells/ml in a batch culture). The cells were first cultured to >
1x10 6 cells/ml in Excell 525, then spun down for 5 min at 1000 rpm and subsequently
suspended in VPRO medium + 6 mM L-glutamine to a density of 1x106 cells/ml. The cells were
then cultured in a shaker flask for 7-10 days at 370C, 5% C02 and 100 rpm. During this period,
the cells grew to a density of > 107 cells/ml. The culture medium was harvested after the cell
viability started to decline. The cells were spun down for 5 min at 1000 rpm and the supernatant
was used for the quantification and purification of FSH. The concentration of FSH was
determined using ELISA (DRG EIA 1288).
         Thereafter, purification of FSH was carried out using a modification of the method
described by Lowry et al. (1976). Purification using charge selective chromatography was
carried out to enrich the highly sialylated forms by methods well known in the art.
          During all chromatographic procedures, enrichment of the sialylated forms of FSH as
claimed herein was confirmed by RIA (DRG EIA 1288) and/or IEF.
                                                   23

Example 7 Quantification of relative amounts of 8, 3 and 8,6 sialic acid
         The relative percentage amounts of 2,3 and 2,6 si       alic acid on purified rFSH (Example
6) were measured using known techniques.
          N-Glycans were released from the samples using PNGase F under denaturative
conditions and then labelled with 2-aminobenzamide. Released glycan forms were then
separated and analysed by Weak Anion Exchange (WAX) column for determination of charge
distribution. Labelled glycans treated with 2,3,6,8 sialidase for determination of total sialic acid
and 2,3 sialidase for determination of 2,3 sialic acid, were further analyzed by wax column.
         The relative percentages of the charged glycans were calculated from structures
present in the undigested and digested glycan pools and are shown in Figure 4 (for 8 samples).
These were found to be in the ranges 50% - 70% (e.g. about 60% or 65%) for 2,3 sialylation
and 28 to 50%, generally 30 to 35% (e.g. about 31% or 35%), for 2,6 sialylation.
Example 8 Quantification of relative amounts mono, di, tri and tetra sialylated glycan
structures
         The relative percentage amounts of mono, di, tri and tetra sialylated structures on
glycans extracted from purified rFSH (Example 6) were measured using known techniques.
          N Glycans were released from the samples using PNGase F under denaturative
conditions and then were labeled with 2-aminobenzamide. Glycans were released from the
samples     using PNGase      F under denaturative conditions and then labeled with               2
aminobenzamide. Released glycan forms were then separated and analysed by Weak Anion
Exchange (WAX) column for determination of sialylation distribution. The relative amounts of
neutral, mono-sialylated, di-sialylated, tri-sialylated and tetra-sialylated structures are shown in
Figure 5 (for the 8 samples shown in Fig 4).
          The rFSH includes neutral , mono-sialylated, di- sialylated, tri- sialylated and tetra
sialylated glycan structures with relative amounts as follows: neutral 5-6 %; 15-17% mono
sialylated; 26-30% di--sialylated; 30-32% tri--sialylated and 17-23 % tetra-sialylated.
Example Ba
         The relative percentage amounts of 2,6 sialic acid on purified rFSH extracted from
nine samples of purified rFSH (produced by the methods of Example 6) were measured using
known techniques.
          N-Glycans were released from the samples using PNGase F under denaturative
conditions and then labelled with 2-aminobenzamide. Released glycan forms were then
separated and analysed by Weak Anion Exchange (WAX) column for determination of charge
distribution. Labelled glycans treated with 2,3,6,8 sialidase for determination of total sialic acid
                                                   24

and 2,3 sialidase for determination of 2,3 sialic acid, were further analyzed by wax column (see
Example 8). The analysis allows calculation of 2,6 sialic acid.
          The relative percentages of the charged glycans were calculated from structures
present in the undigested and digested glycan pools and are shown in the following Table.
These were found to be in the ranges 25 to 50%, generally 30 to 35% for 2,6 sialylation.
          The relative percentage amounts of bisecting GlcNac, GalNac and 1-Fucose Lewis on
glycans extracted from the nine samples of purified rFSH (produced by the methods of Example
6) were measured using known techniques. N-Glycans were released from the glycoprotrein
using PNGase F and labeled with 2-aminobenzamide (2AB). The analysis was done by two
dimensional (2D) HPLC analysis in combination with enzymatic degradation of the glycans. For
verification, the glycans were analyzed by MALDI-MS                The relative amounts of alpha 2,6-sialic
acid and the terminal residues are shown in the following table, together with those for Gonal F
(CHO cell derived recombinant FSH) and Bravelle (human urinary FSH).
 Sampi        Ref      Ref.       1-1     1-2     1-3     II    II    III-1   111-2 Aver   Gona     Brav
     e        .0       N                                                            age      IF     elle
                 C:        C:        C)     C)       C:    C     C        C      C     C        C       C
                 CD I      CD        CD     CD       CD    CD    CD       CD     CD    CD       CD      CD
    2,6
   sialic     27.
   acid         7       34.9     26.2   30.1     31.1   28.3  30.4     35      33   30.7      0     55.4
  1GaIN                                                                                       0     11.3
               51       44.6     50.7   44.7      49    47.6  45.3   46.4    44.9   47.1
    Ac
 Bisecti
    ng
 GIcNA        10        12.4     10.2    8.9      8.7   11.8  11.4    10.6   13.9   10.9     55       14
     c
     1
  Fucos       21.       16.7     23.3    16.1    20.3   18.1  17.9    18.7   19.0   19.0    3.11     2.2
     e          1
  Lewis
     2
  Fucos2        4        4.1      4.3    1.9      3.1    4.2   3.8     3.9    4.4    3.7      -     n.d.
     e
  Lewis
 Value of 3.1 is total % Fucose Lewis.  Not determined.
                                                          25

          It can be seen that the amount of GalNac in the FSH of the invention varies between
about 44.9 and 51%, averaging about 47.1%.
          It can be seen that the amount of bisecting GIcNac in the FSH of the invention varies
between 8.7 and 13.9%, averaging approximately at 10.9%.
          It can be seen that the amount of 1 Fucose Lewis in the FSH of the invention varies
between 16.1 and 23.3%, averaging approximately at 19%.
          It can be seen that the amount of 2 Fucose Lewis in the FSH of the invention varies
between 1.9 and 4.4%, averaging approximately at 3.7%.
Example        9  -    A    multiple dose     study   investigating the  safety,   tolerability,
pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and immunogenicity of FE 999049 in comparison
to GONAL-F.
Study population
A total of 48 (24 on each drug) healthy women received daily doses of 14.6 pg of FE 999049 (a
composition according to the invention, produced according to Example 6) or 16.5 pg of Gonal
F for seven days.
Safety results
Multiple dose administration of FE 999049 and GONAL-F was safe and generally well tolerated
as assessed by Adverse Events (AEs), vital signs, ECG, clinical laboratory measurements, and
physical examination. No serious adverse event or death occurred during the study.
Pharmacokinetic results
Following the administration of FE 999049 and GONAL-F over 7 days, the FSH concentration
values as assessed immediately prior to the next injection increased and seemed to reach a
steady state level after 6-7 days. However the exposure (AUC and Cmax) of FE 999049 was
60% higher in comparison to Gonal-F.
Pharmacodynamic results
The concentrations of inhibin-B (see figure 6), oestradiol, and progesterone all increased
subsequent to administration of FE 999049 and GONAL-F, however to a greater extent
following administration of FE 999049 compared to GONAL-F. Both              number and size
distribution of follicles showed a greater response to FE 999049 compared to GONAL-F.
                                                 26

Example 9 demonstrates that FSH having a specific amount (17-23%) of tetra-sialylated glycan
structures and e.g. specific amounts of 2,3 sialyla tion and 2,6 sialylation is markedly more
potent then recombinant FSH products which are currently on the market.
Example 10 - A multiple dose study investigating FE 999049 in comparison to GONAL-F.
         The following describes a randomised, controlled, assessor-blind, parallel groups,
multinational, multicentre trial assessing the dose-response relationship of FE 999049 in
patients undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation for in vitro fertilisation (IVF) / intracytoplasmic
sperm injection (ICSI). The patient population was 265 IVF patients aged between 18 to 37
years, with BMI 18.5 to 32.0 kg/M 2 .
The trial was designed as a dose-response trial with number of oocytes retrieved as the primary
endpoint. Secondary endpoints will explore the qualitative and quantitative impact of different
doses of FE 999049 with regard to endocrine profile, follicular development, oocyte fertilisation,
embryo quality and treatment efficiency (i.e. total gonadotropin consumption and duration of
stimulation). The trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy of FE 999049 to establish pregnancy
when used in controlled ovarian stimulation for IVF/ICSI cycles.
         Subjects were assessed within 3 months prior to randomisation for compliance with the
inclusion and exclusion criteria, including an anti-MOllerian hormone (AMH) assessment to
increase homogeneity of the trial population in relation to ovarian response and minimise the
number of potential poor and hyper-responders to the FE 999049 doses and GONAL-F dose
used in the trial. The AMH assessment was measured using the AMH Gen-II enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay kit (Beckman Coulter, Inc., Webster, Texas).              This assay can detect
AMH concentrations greater than 0.57 pmol/L with a minimum limit of quantitation of 1.1 pmol/L.
         On day 2-3 of their menstrual cycle, subjects were randomised in a 1:1:1:1:1:1 fashion
to treatment with either 90 IU, 120 IU, 150 IU, 180 IU or 210 IU FE 999049 or 150 IU GONAL-F,
and ovarian stimulation initiated. Randomisation was          stratified according to AMH level at
screening [5.0-14.9 pmol/L (low AMH) and 15.0 to 44.9 pmol/L (high AMH)).
         Gonal-F is filled by mass (FbM) at FDA request; referring to pg dose is therefore
appropriate. The Gonal -F label indicates 600 IU/44 pg, which indicates that 150 IU is 11 pg.
However, there is some variation and the batch certificate for this trial indicated that 11.3 pg
Gonal-F was equivalent to 150 IU. The FE999049 doses are presented by protein content (pg)
rather than biological activity. Thus the doses of FE999049 were 5.2pg (90 IU), 6.9pg (120 IU),
8.6pg (150 IU), 10.3pg (180 IU) or 12.1pg (210 IU).
         The subject and dose distribution is set out as follows (data are number of subjects):
                                                 27

        Table I
                                       FE 999049                            GONAL-F
                   5.2 pg      6.9 pg     8.6 pg    10.3 pg    12.1 pg     11.3 (11) pg       Total
Screened                                                                                      334
 and xosed           42          45         44        45         46             43            265
High AMH
str5.0-44.9          23          26         24        24         26             25         148(56%)
pmol/L)
Low AMH
(1at4                19          19         20        20         21             18         117(44%)
pmol/L)
Per-protocol         40          42         42        44         44             43            255
        The daily dose level of FE 999049 or GONAL-F is fixed throughout the entire
stimulation period. During stimulation, subjects are monitored on stimulation day 1, 4 and 6 and
hereafter at least every second day. When 3 follicles of 215 mm are observed, visits are
performed daily. Subjects are treated with FE 999049 or GONAL-F for a maximum of 16 days.
        To   prevent a premature        LH   surge, a GnRH      antagonist   (ganirelix acetate,
ORGALUTRAN, MSD / Schering-Plough) may be initiated on stimulation day 6 at a daily dose
of 0.25 mg and continued throughout the stimulation period. Triggering of final follicular
maturation is done on the day when 23 follicles with a diameter 217 mm are observed. If there
are <25 follicles with a diameter 212 mm, 250 pg recombinant hCG (choriogonadotropin alfa,
OVITRELLE, Merck Serono / EMD Serono) is administered. If there are 25-35 follicles with a
diameter 212 mm, 0.2 mg GnRH agonist (triptorelin acetate, DECAPEPTYL / GONAPEPTYL,
Ferring Pharmaceuticals) is administered. In case of excessive ovarian response, defined as
>35 follicles with a diameter 212 mm, the treatment is cancelled. In case of poor ovarian
response, defined as <3 follicles with a diameter 210 mm observed on stimulation day 10, the
cycle could be cancelled.
                                                 28

          Oocyte retrieval takes place 36h ( 2h) after triggering of final follicular maturation and
the oocytes inseminated by IVF and/or ICSI. Fertilisation and embryo development are
assessed from oocyte retrieval to the day of transfer. For subjects who underwent triggering of
final follicular maturation with hCG, one blastocyst of the best quality available is transferred on
day 5 after oocyte retrieval while remaining blastocysts are frozen. For subjects who undergo
triggering of final follicular maturation with GnRH agonist, no embryo transfer takes place in the
fresh cycle and blastocysts are instead frozen on day 5. Vaginal progesterone tablets
(LUTINUS, Ferring Pharmaceuticals) 100 mg 3 times daily are provided for luteal phase support
from the day after oocyte retrieval until the day of the clinical pregnancy visit. A    DCG    test is
performed 13-15 days after embryo transfer and clinical pregnancy will be confirmed by
transvaginal ultrasound (TVU) 5-6 weeks after embryo transfer.
Results
The number of oocytes retrieved (primary endpoint) is shown in the following Table.
Table 2
                                              FE 999049                                  GONAL-F
                   5.2 pg        6.9 pg       8.6 pg        10.3 pg        12.1 pg      11.3 (11)pg
Oocytes
retrieved
All               5.2 (3.3)     7.9 (5.9)    9.2 (4.6)    10.6 (7.0)     12.2 (5.9)      10.4 (5.2)
High AMH          5.9 (3.9)     9.1 (6.4)    10.6 (4.8)   13.6 (7.8)     14.4 (5.8)      12.4 (5.4)
Low AMH           4.5 (2.2)     6.3 (4.9)    7.4 (3.8)     6.9 (3.6)      9.4 (4.9)       7.8 (3.4)
Data are mean (SD)
The primary objective was met: a significant dose-response relationship was established for FE
999049 with respect to number of oocytes retrieved. This finding was observed not only for the
overall trial population, but also for each of the two AMH strata used at randomisation.
A significant dose-response for FE 999049 was demonstrated for all key objective
pharmacodynamic parameters, e.g. estradiol, inhibin B and inhibin A. At a similar microgram
                                                    29

dose level, the pharmacodynamic responses with FE 999049 were larger than with GONAL-F
(these results not shown).
The serum FSH concentrations after exposure to FE 999049 were significantly higher than for
GONAL-F. The results confirm that the PK profile of FE 999049 differs from that of GONAL-F.
Fertilisation rates, blastocyst development and pregnancy rates in IVF/ICSI patients treated with
FE 999049 were within expectations.
There were no safety concerns with the use of FE 999049. A good local tolerability was
documented.
Further Analysis
The applicants have further analysed the data to identify the FE 999049 dose(s) that fulfil the
following criteria with respect to number of oocytes retrieved:
             -    Oocytes retrieved in the range 8-14
             -    Minimise proportion of patients with <8 oocytes
             -    Minimise proportion of patients with 20 oocytes
The applicants also investigated the impact of body weight. If relevant, the dose is converted
into pg/kg for an average subject. This value of pg/kg and 0.01 pg/kg are evaluated in a model
with respect to distribution of oocytes retrieved as well as safety profile, and the optimal dose is
identified.
Low AMH strata
As seen in Table 2, the dose of FE999049 which fulfilled the first criterion (Oocytes retrieved in
the range 8-14) was 12.1 pg (mean 9.4 oocytes retrieved). The distribution of oocytes is shown
in Table 3 below.
                                                  30

Table 3
                                                FE 999049                                GONAL-F
                        5.2 pg        6.9 pg       8.6 pg      10.3 pg       12.1 pg    11.3 (11) pg
Oocytes retrieved
   <4                    32%           24%           15%         10%          10%            6%
   4-7                   63%           42%          45%          60%          20%           56%
   8-14                   5%           24%          35%          30%          60% *-*       33%
   15-19                  0%            5%           5%           0%           5%            6%
    20                    0%            5%           0%           0%           5%            0%
Data are % of subjects
        As shown by the box and arrow, a dose of 12.1 pg FE999049 provides retrieval of the
most desirable number of oocytes in 60% of subjects in the low AMH group. This is a marked
improvement on Gonal-F (most desirable number of oocytes in only 33% of subjects).
        Table 4 below shows the analysis of signs of excessive response in the low AMH strata
(data are number of subjects). It can be seen that there were no indications of early OHSS of a
moderate or severe nature and there were no incidences of preventative action being required;
there are no concerns associated with the dose of 12.1 pg FE999049 in a patient having low
AMH.
                                              31

        Table 4
                                                       FE 999049                         GOAL
                                    5.2 pg      6.9 pg     8.6 pg     10.3 pg      12.   11.3(11)
                                                                                    1       pg
                                                                                   p9
All subjects                           19         19         20         20         21       18
Early OHSS, mod/sev                    0           0          0          0          0       0
GnRH agonist triggering                0           0          0          0          0       0
Preventive action*                     0           0          0          0          0       0
215 oocytes                            0           2          1          0          2        1
Anyoftheabove                          0           2          1          0          2       1
Figure 7 shows the effect of body weight on oocytes retrieved (for the low AMH strata), for the
various doses. The arrows indicate the number of oocytes retrieved from subjects of
bodyweight between 45kg and 90kg treated at the 12.1 pg dose. As can be seen (text box) the
variation between patients of bodyweight 45kg and those of 90kg is less than around 0.5
oocytes; in other words dosing by body weight is not required in patients with low AMH when
dose of FE999049 is at least 12 pg, because there is not a significant variation in oocytes
retrieved with body weight, at this dose.
Thus the applicants have found that a dose of, or dose equivalent to, 6 to 18 pg, for example 9
to 14 pg, for example 12 pg, human derived recombinant FSH is suitable for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH <15 pmol/L, for example 0.05-14.9 pmol/L
for example 5.0-14.9 pmol/L. The dose provides an effective response while minimising risk of
OHSS.
                                                   32

 High AMH strata
 As seen in Table 2, three doses of FE999049 fulfilled the first criterion (oocytes retrieved in the
 range 8-14): 6.9 pg (mean 9.1 oocytes retrieved), 8.6 pg (mean 10.6 oocytes retrieved), and
 10.3 pg (mean 13.6 oocytes retrieved).
 Figure 8 shows the effect of body weight on oocytes retrieved (for the high AMH strata), for the
 various doses. The arrows indicate the number of oocytes retrieved from subjects of body
 weight between 45kg and 90kg treated at the 6.9 pg, 8.6 pg and 10.3 pg doses. As can be
 seen (text boxes) the variation is significant: for the 6.9 pg dose 6 additional oocytes will be
 retrieved from a 45 kg patient compared to a 90 kg patient; for the 8.6 pg dose 4 additional
 oocytes will be retrieved from a 45 kg patient compared to a 90 kg patient; and for the 10.1 pg
 dose 2.5 additional oocytes will be retrieved from a 45 kg patient compared to a 90 kg patient.
 In other words dosing by body weight has an impact in patients with high AMH when the dose
 of FE999049 is less than 12 pg, because there is a significant variation in oocytes retrieved with
 body weight, at these doses.
 Table 5a below shows a further breakdown of oocytes retrieved (from Table 2) by AMH.             This
 shows the doses which fulfilled the first criterion (oocytes retrieved in the range 8-14) for each
 sub strata of AMH (boxes).
 Table 5a
                         FE 999049
                         5.2 pg        6.9 pg        8.6 pg      10.3 pg      12.1 pg
Oocytes retrieved
15-24 pmoI/L           4.9(3.8)      7.3(3.6)         10.6 (5.1) 11.5 (6.7)   12.3 (5.9)
25-34 pmoI/L            7.0(1.8)     9.1(6.8)        9.7(6.7)    15.5 (6.4)   16.7 (4.9)
35-45 pmoI/L            8.5(9.2)     21.0 (1.4)       11.3(2.6)  18.0         15.7 (6.5)
                                                                 (12.2)
                                                    33

           Table 5 b below shows the analysis of patients where treatment was cancelled due to
  either excessive response or agonist triggering, for these subgroups. For example, one patient
  in the 25-34 pmol/L AMH strata cancelled due to excessive response following the dose of 10.3
  pg and one patient in the 25-34 pmol/L AMH strata cancelled due to excessive response
  following the dose of 12.1 pg; one patient in the 35-45 pmol/L AMH strata cancelled following
  agonist triggering following dose of 10.3 pg; and one patient in the 35-45 pmol/L AMH strata
  cancelled following agonist triggering following dose of 6.9 pg.
  Table 5b
                                                             FE 999049
                                  5.2 pg          6.9 pg         8.6 pg        10.3 pg     12.1 pg
OHSS***, cancellation due
to excessive response or
agonist triggering****
    15-24 pmol/L                     0               0              0             0            0
    25-34 pmol/L                     0               0              0            1***         1***
    35-45 pmol/L                     0             1****            0            1****         0
           It can be seen therefore that tailoring of dose by bodyweight (Fig 8) and AMH level
  would be useful in the high AMH strata, to minimise cancellations and maximise oocyte
  retrieval.
           The applicants have found that the following doses provide an effective response while
  minimising risk of OHSS (kg is kg body weight of patient).
                                                   34

Serum AMH                   dose                                          (Max dose)
< 15 pmol/L                  12 pg                                        (12 pg)
15-24 pmol/L                0.14-0.19 pg/kg, for example 0.15-0.16        (12 pg)
                             pg/kg, preferably 0.15 pg/kg
25-34 pmol/L                0.11-0.14 pg/kg; for example 0.12-0.13        (12 pg)
                             pg/kg, preferably 0.13 pg/kg
2>35 pmol/L                 0.10-0.11 pg/kg, preferably 0.11 pg/kg        (12 pg)
        The following are appropriate if dosing by bodyweight is not desired.
Serum AMH                        dose                             (Max dose)
< 15 pmol/L                      12 pg                            12 pg
15-24 pmol/L                     9.3-10 pg                        (12 pg)
25-34 pmol/L                     7.3-8 pg                         (12 pg)
2 35 pmol/L                      6.3 - 7 pg                       (12 pg)
        The following are appropriate if fewer categories of AMH are required.
4 AMH categories              3 AMH categories            2 AMH categories         One dose
 AMH       Dose                AMH         Dose           AMH         Dose         AMH   Dose
  <15       12 pg               <15        12 pg           <15        12 pg          -    0.16
                                                                                          pg/kg
  15-24    0.15-0.16 pg/kg      15-24      0.15-0.16       215        0.14 pg/kg
                                           pg/kg
  25-34    0.12-0.13 pg/kg       25        0.12 pg/kg
  >35      0.10-0.11 pg/kg
                                                35

The following are appropriate if dosing by bodyweight is not desired. .
4 AMH categories                   3 AMH categories           2 AMH categories        One dose
 AMH        Dose                   AMH        Dose            AMH          Dose       AMH       Dose
  <15       12 pg                    <15       12 pg           <15          12 pg       -         9.3 pg
                                                                                                  or 10
                                                                                                  pg
  15-24     9.3-10 pg                15-24     9.3-10 pg         15         8.7 pg
  25-34     7.3-8 pg                >25        7.3 pg
  >35       6.3-7 pg
Thus the applicants have found that a dose of, or dose equivalent to, 9 to 14 pg, for example 12
pg, human derived recombinant FSH is suitable for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient
having serum AMH <15 pmol/L, for example 0.05-14.9 pmol/L for example 5.0-14.9 pmol/L.
The dose provides an effective response while minimising risk of OHSS.
The applicants have found that a dose of, or dose equivalent to, 5 to 12.5 pg, for example 6 to
10.5 pg, human derived recombinant FSH is suitable for use in the treatment of infertility in a
patient having serum AMH        15 pmol/L. The dose provides an effective response while
minimising risk of OHSS.
The applicants have found that a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.09 to 0.19 pg
human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient is suitable for use in the
treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of 15 pmol/L. The applicants have
found that a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.14 to 0.19 pg human derived
recombinant FSH (preferably 0.15 to 0.16 pg human derived recombinant FSH) per kg
bodyweight of the patient is suitable for use in the treatment of infertility in a patient having
serum AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L. The applicants have found that a (e.g. daily) dose of, or
dose equivalent to, 0.11 to 0.14 pg human derived recombinant FSH (preferably 0.12 to 0.13 pg
human derived recombinant FSH) per kg bodyweight of the patient is suitable for use in the
                                                    36

treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L. The applicants
have found that a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.10 to 0.11 pg human derived
recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient is suitable for use in the treatment of
infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of   35 pmol/L. These doses provide an effective
response while minimising risk of OHSS.
The applicants have found that a (e.g. daily) dose of, or dose equivalent to, 0.15 to 0.21 pg (e.g.
0.16 pg) human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient is suitable for use in
the treatment of infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of <15 pmol/L, for example for
the first stimulation cycle with human derived recombinant FSH. . However, it is not required
that patients are dosed by body weight at this level of AMH.
Example 10 A - Individualised COS protocol (low AMH)
          The selected patients are about to undergo COS for in vitro fertilisation (IVF) /
intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)       by methods known in the art.      The pre-treatment
protocol includes assessment/screening of the patient's serum AMH using the AMH Gen-II
enzyme linked immunosorbent assay kit (Beckman Coulter, Inc., Webster, Texas). This assay
can detect AMH concentrations greater than 0.57 pmol/L with a minimum limit of quantitation of
1.1 pmol/L. AMH may be measured using other Assay kits (e.g. available from Roche).
          The COS protocol proceeds in the usual manner apart from administration of the initial
dose of FE 999049 according to AMH level at screening. A patient with an AMH level of <14.9
pmol/L would be administered an initial daily dose of approximately 12 pg FE 999049, a human
derived recombinant FSH product manufactured according to the method of Example 6.               A
patient with an AMH level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L would receive an initial daily dose of 0.15 to 0.19
pg of the human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient. A patient with an
AMH level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L would receive an initial daily dose of 0.11 to 0.13 pg of the
human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient. A patient with an AMH level
of    35 pmol/L would receive an initial daily dose of 0.10 to 0.11 pg of the human derived
recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient.
Example 11 - Individualised COS protocols.
The doses in this protocol are less preferred that Example 10A.
The selected patients are about to undergo COS for in vitro fertilisation (IVF) / intracytoplasmic
sperm injection (ICSI) by methods known in the art.          The pre-treatment protocol includes
assessment/screening of the patient' s serum AMH using the AMH Gen-II enzyme linked
                                                  37

immunosorbent assay kit (Beckman Coulter, Inc., Webster, Texas).          This assay can detect
AMH concentrations greater than 0.57 pmol/L with a minimum limit of quantitation of 1.1 pmol/L.
         The COS protocol proceeds in the usual manner apart from administration of the initial
dose of FE 999049 according to AMH level at screening in line with the following table. Thus a
patient with an AMH level of 5-14.8 pmol/L would be administered 180 IU FSH in the form of
approximately 8-11 pg FE 999049, a human derived recombinant FSH product manufactured
according to the method of Example 6.      A patient with an AMH level of 30-44.9 pmol/L would
be administered 120 IU FSH in the form of approximately 4-7 pg FE 999049, a human derived
recombinant FSH product manufactured according to the method of Example 6.           If the AMH
level is not available, the patient recombinant would be administered 120-180 IU FSH in the
form of approximately 6-11 pg FE 999049, a human derived recombinant FSH product
manufactured according to the method of Example 6.
AMH Level               Starting         Approx
                        Dose FSH         equivalent in
                                         P9
<5 pmol/l               210 IU           10-15 pg
5-14.9 pmol/l            180 IU          8-11 pg
>15-29.9 pmol/l          150 IU          6-9 pg
>30-44.9 pmol/l          120 IU          4-7 pg
>45 pmol/l              90 IU            2-5 pg
Not Available            120-180 IU      6-11 pg
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of
a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or method
steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of elements
or integers or method steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgement or
admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or information derived from
it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour
to which this specification relates.
                                               38

 References
Andersen CY, Westergaard LG, and van Wely M. (2004). FSH isoform composition of commercial
gonadotrophin preparations: a neglected aspect? Reprod Biomed Online. 9(2), 231-236.
Arey BJ, Stevis PE, Deecher DC, Shen ES, Frail DE, Negro-Vilar A, and Lopez FJ. (1997) Induction
of promiscuous G protein coupling of the follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor: a novel
mechanism for transducing pleiotropic actions of FSH isoforms. Mol Endocrinol. 11(5), 517-526.
 Baenziger JU and Green ED. (1988). Pituitary glycoprotein hormone oligosaccharides: structure,
synthesis and function of the asparagine-linked oligosaccharides on lutropin, follitropin and
thyrotropin. Biochim Biophys Acta. 947(2), 287-306.
 Bassett RM, and Driebergen R. (2005). Continued improvements in the quality and consistency of
follitropin alfa, recombinant human FSH. Reprod Biomed Online. 10(2) 169-177.
 Damien-Matsumura P, Zaga V, Maldonado A, S nchez-Hernendez C, Timossi C, and Ulloa-Aguirre
A. (1999). Oestrogens regulate pituitary alpha2,3-sialyltransferase messenger ribonucleic acid levels
in the female rat. J Mol Endocrinol. 23(2), 153-165.
 D' Antonio M., Borrelli F. , Datola A., Bucci R. , Ivbscia M. , Polletta P., Piscitelli D., and Papoian R.
(1999) Biological characterization of recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone isoforms.
 Human Reproduction 14, 1160-1167
 Dalpathado DS, Irungu J, Go EP, Butnev VY, Norton K, Bousfield GR, and Desaire H. (2006).
Comparative glycomics of the glycoprotein follicle stimulating hormone: glycopeptide analysis of
isolates from two mammalian species. Biochemistry. 45(28), 8665-8673. No copy
 Dias JA, Van Roey P. (2001). Structural biology of human follitropin and its receptor. Arch Med Res.
32(6) 510-519
 Fiddes, J. C. and Goodman, H. M. (1979) Isolation, cloning and sequence analysis of the cDNA for
the alpha-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin. Nature, 281, 351-356.
 Flack, M.R., Bennet, A.P., Froehlich, J. Anasti, JN and Nisula, B. (1994). Increased biological activity
due to basic isoforms in recombinant human follicle-stimulating hormone produced in a human cell
line. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab., 79, 756-760
                                                     39

Fox KM, Dias JA, and Van Roey P. (2001). Three-dimensional structure of human follicle-stimulating
hormone. Mol Endocrinol. 15(3), 378-89
Grabenhorst E, Hoffmann A, Nimtz M, Zettlmeissl G, and Conradt HS. (1995). Construction of stable
BHK-21 cells coexpressing human secretory glycoproteins and human Gal(beta 1-4)GIcNAc-R alpha
2,6-sialyltransferase alpha 2,6-linked        NeuAc is preferentially attached to the Gal(beta        1
4)GIcNAc(beta       1-2)Man(alpha     1-3)-branch   of   diantennary  oligosaccharides   from  secreted
recombinant beta-trace protein. Eur J Biochem. 232(3), 718-25.
Green ED and Baenziger JU. (1988). Asparagine-linked oligosaccharides on lutropin, follitropin, and
thyrotropin. II. Distributions of sulfated and sialylated oligosaccharides on bovine, ovine, and human
pituitary glycoprotein hormones. J Biol Chem. 263(1), 36-44.
Grundmann,U., Nerlich,C., Rein,T. and Zettlmeissl, G. (1990). Complete cDNA sequence encoding
human beta-galactoside alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase. G Nucleic Acids Res. 18 (3), 667
Howles, C.M. (1996). Genetic engineering of human FSH (Gonal-F). Hum Reprod. Update, 2,172
191.
Kagawa Y, Takasaki S, Utsumi J, Hosoi K, Shimizu H, Kochibe N, and Kobata A. (1988).
Comparative study of the asparagine-linked sugar chains of natural human interferon-beta 1 and
recombinant human interferon-beta 1 produced by three different mammalian cells. J Biol Chem.
263(33), 17508-17515.
Keene, J.L., Matzuk, M.M., Otani, T., Fauser, B,C,J,M., Galway, A.B., Hsueh, A.J.W. and Boime, I.
(1989). Expression of Biologically active Human Follitropin in Chinese Hamster Ovary Cells. The
Journal of Biological Chemistry, 264(9), 4769-4775.
Kitagawa,H. and Paulson,J.C (1994) Cloning of a novel alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase that sialylates
glycoprotein and glycolipid carbohydrate groups. J. Biol. Chem. 269(2), 1394-1401.
Lee EU, Roth J, and Paulson JC (1989) Alteration of terminal glycosylation sequences on N-linked
oligosaccharides of Chinese hamster ovary cells by expression of beta-galactoside alpha 2,6
sialyltransferase. J Biol Chem. 264(23), 13848-13855.
de Leeuw, R., Mulders, J., Voortman, G. Rombout, F. Damm, J. and Kloosterboer, L. (1996)
Structure-function relationship of recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (Puregon). Mol. Hum.
Reprod., 2, 361-369.
                                                      40

Lowry OH, Rosebrough NJ, Farr AL, Randall RJ. (1951) Protein measurement with the Folin phenol
reagent. J Biol Chem. 193(1), 265-75.
Lowry, PJ, McLean, C, Jones RL and Satgunasingam N. (1976) Purification of anterior pituitary and
hypothalamic hormones Clin Pathol Suppl (Assoc Clin Pathol). 7, 16-21.
Olivennes F, Howles CM, Borini A, Germond M, Trew G, Wikland M, Zegers-Hochschild F,
Saunders H (2009) Individualizing FSH dose for assisted reproduction using a novel algorithm: the
CONSORT study. Reprod Biomed Online. 2009 Feb;18(2):195-204.
Pierce JG, and Parsons TF (1981) Glycoprotein hormones: structure and function Annu Rev
Biochem. 50, 465-495.
Pricer WE Jr, and Ashwell G. (1971). The binding of desialylated glycoproteins by plasma
membranes of rat liver. J Biol Chem. 246(15), 4825-33.
Rathnam P, and Saxena BB. (1975). Primary amino acid sequence of follicle-stimulating hormone
from human pituitary glands. I. alpha subunit. J Biol Chem.;250(17):6735-6746.
Regoeczi E, Debanne MT, Hatton MC, and Koj A. (1978) Elimination of asialofetuin and
asialoorosomucoid by the intact rat. Quantitative aspects of the hepatic clearance mechanism.
Biochim Biophys Acta. 541(3), 372-84.
Royle L, Radcliffe CM, Dwek RA and Rudd PM (2006) Methods in Molecular Biology, ed I
Brockhausen-Schutzbach (Humana Press), 347: Glycobiology protocols, 125-144.
Ryan RJ, Keutmann HT, Charlesworth MC, McCormick DJ, Milius RP, Calvo FO and Vutyavanich T.
(1987). Structure-function relationships of gonadotropins. Recent Prog Horm Res.;43,:383-429.
Saxena BB and Rathnam P. (1976) Amino acid sequence of the beta subunit of follicle-stimulating
hormone from human pituitary glands. J Biol Chem. 251(4), 993-1005
Steelman SL, and Pohley FM. (1953) Assay of the follicle stimulating hormone based on the
augmentation with human chorionic gonadotropin. Endocrinology. 53(6), 604-616.
Steer CJ, and Ashwell G. (1980) Studies on a mammalian hepatic binding protein specific for
asialoglycoproteins. Evidence for receptor recycling in isolated rat hepatocytes. J Biol Chem. 255(7),
3008-13.
                                                  41

Svensson EC, Soreghan B, and Paulson JC. (1990) Organization of the beta-galactoside alpha 2,6
sialyltransferase gene. Evidence for the transcriptional regulation of terminal glycosylation. J Biol
Chem. 265(34):20863-20868.
Takeuchi M, Takasaki S, Miyazaki H, Kato T, Hoshi S, Kochibe N, and Kobata A (1988).
Comparative study of the asparagine-linked sugar chains of human erythropoietins purified from
urine and the culture medium of recombinant Chinese hamster ovary cells. J Biol Chem. 263(8),
3657-3663.
Timossi CM, Barrios de Tomasi J, Zambrano E, Gonzelez R, Ulloa-Aguirre A. (1998). A naturally
occurring basically charged human follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) variant inhibits FSH-induced
androgen      aromatization  and   tissue-type  plasminogen    activator enzyme    activity in  vitro.
Neuroendocrinology. 67.3) 153-163.
Timossi CM, Barrios-de-Tomasi J, Gonzelez-Sudrez R, Arranz MC, Padmanabhan V, Conn PM, and
Ulloa-Aguirre A. (2000). Differential effects of the charge variants of human follicle-stimulating
hormone. J Endocrinol. 165(2), 193-205.
Ulloa-Aguirre, A., Espinoza, R., Damian-Matsumura, P. and Chappel, S.C. (1988) Immunological
and biological potencies of the different molecular species of gonadotrophins. Hum. Reprod. 3, 491
501.
Ulloa-Aguirre, A., Cravioto, A., Damihn-Matsumura, P. Jimenez, M, Zambrano, E and Diaz-Sanchez,
V. (1992) Biological characterization of the naturally occurring analogues of intrapituitary human
follicle stimulating hormone. Hum. Reprod. 7, 23-30.
Ulloa-Aguirre A, Midgley AR Jr, Beitins IZ, and Padmanabhan V. (1995). Follicle-stimulating
isohormones: characterization and physiological relevance. Endocr Rev.16(_6). 765-787.
Ulloa-Aguirre A, Maldonado A, Damien-Matsumura P, and Timossi C (2001). Endocrine regulation of
gonadotropin glycosylation. Arch Med Res. 32(_6, 520-532.
Ulloa-Aguirre A, Timossi C, Barrios-de-Tomasi J, Maldonado A, and Nayudu P. (2003). Impact of
carbohydrate heterogeneity in function of follicle-stimulating hormone: studies derived from in vitro
and in vivo models. Biol Reprod. 62      379-389.
                                                  42

Van Lenten L, and Ashwell G. (1972) The binding of desialylated glycoproteins by plasma
membranes of rat liver. Development of a quantitative inhibition assay. J Biol Chem. 247(14), 4633
40.
Wide, L. and Albertsson-Wikland, K. (1990) Change in electrophoretic mobility of human follicle
stimulating hormone in serum after administration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone. J. Clin.
Endocrinol. Metab. 7    271-276.
Wide, L. and Bakos, 0. (1993). More basic forms of both human follicle-stimulating hormone and
luteinizing hormone in serum at midcycle compared with the follicular or luteal phase. J. Clin.
Endocrinol. Metab., 76 885-889.
Wide L, Naess6n T, Sundstr6m-Poromaa I, Eriksson K. (2007) Sulfonation and sialylation of
gonadotropins in women during the menstrual cycle, after menopause, and with polycystic ovarian
syndrome and in men. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.;92(11), 4410-4417.
Zambrano E, Zarihen T, Olivares A, Barrios-de-Tomasi J, and Ulloa-Aguirre A. (1999). Receptor
binding activity and in vitro biological activity of the human FSH charge isoforms as disclosed by
heterologous and homologous assay systems: implications for the structure-function relationship of
the FSH variants. Endocrine. 10(2), 113-121.
Zhang X, Lok SH, and Kon OL (1998) Stable expression of human alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase in
Chinese hamster ovary cells: functional consequences for human erythropoietin expression and
bioactivity. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1425(3), 441-452.
                                                    43

SEQ ID NO: 1
Follicle stimulating hormone alpha polypeptide
Accession number AH007338
Nucleotide sequence of FSH alpha
  1 ATGGATTACT ACAGAAAATA TGCAGCTATC TTTCTGGTCA CATTGTCGGT GTTTCTGCAT
 61 GTTCTCCATT CCGCTCCTGA TGTGCAGGAT TGCCCAGAAT GCACGCTACA GGAAAACCCA
121   TTCTTCTCCC AGCCGGGTGC CCCAATACTT CAGTGCATGG GCTGCTGCTT CTCTAGAGCA
181   TATCCCACTC CACTAAGGTC CAAGAAGACG ATGTTGGTCC AAAAGAACGT CACCTCAGAG
241 TCCACTTGCT GTGTAGCTAA ATCATATAAC AGGGTCACAG TAATGGGGGG TTTCAAAGTG
301 GAGAACCACA CGGCGTGCCA CTGCAGTACT          TGTTATTATC ACAAATCTTA A
Protein sequence of FSH alpha (SEQ ID NO: 5)
  1 MDYYRKYAAI FLVTLSVFLH VLHSAPDVQD CPECTLQENP FFSQPGAPIL QCMGCCFSRA
 61 YPTPLRSKKT MLVQKNVTSE STCCVAKSYN RVTVMGGFKV ENHTACHCST CYYHKS
SEQ ID NO: 2
Follicle stimulating hormone beta polypeptide
Accession number NM_000510
Nucleotide sequence of FSH beta
  1 ATGAAGACAC TCCAGTTTTT CTTCCTTTTC          TGTTGCTGGA AAGCAATCTG CTGCAATAGC
 61   TGTGAGCTGA CCAACATCAC CATTGCAATA GAGAAAGAAG AATGTCGTTT CTGCATAAGC
121 ATCAACACCA CTTGGTGTGC        TGGCTACTGC TACACCAGGG ATCTGGTGTA TAAGGACCCA
181 GCCAGGCCCA AAATCCAGAA AACATGTACC TTCAAGGAAC TGGTATATGA AACAGTGAGA
241 GTGCCCGGCT GTGCTCACCA TGCAGATTCC TTGTATACAT ACCCAGTGGC CACCCAGTGT
301 CACTGTGGCA AGTGTGACAG CGACAGCACT GATTGTACTG TGCGAGGCCT GGGGCCCAGC
361   TACTGCTCCT TTGGTGAAAT GAAAGAATAA
Protein sequence of FSH beta (SEQ ID NO: 6)
  1 MKTLQFFFLF CCWKAICCNS CELTNITIAI EKEECRFCIS          INTTWCAGYC YTRDLVYKDP
                                             44

 61 ARPKIQKTCT FKELVYETVR VPGCAHHADS LYTYPVATQC HCGKCDSDST DCTVRGLGPS
121 YCSFGEMKE
SEQ ID NO: 3
Beta-galactoside alpha-2,3-sialyltransferase 4
Accession Number L23767
Nucleotide sequence of ST3GAL4
  1 ATGTGTCCTG CAGGCTGGAA GCTCCTGGCC ATGTTGGCTC TGGTCCTGGT CGTCATGGTG
 61  TGGTATTCCA TCTCCCGGGA AGACAGGTAC ATCGAGCTTT TTTATTTTCC CATCCCAGAG
121 AAGAAGGAGC CGTGCCTCCA GGGTGAGGCA GAGAGCAAGG CCTCTAAGCT CTTTGGCAAC
181  TACTCCCGGG ATCAGCCCAT CTTCCTGCGG CTTGAGGATT ATTTCTGGGT CAAGACGCCA
241 TCTGCTTACG AGCTGCCCTA TGGGACCAAG GGGAGTGAGG ATCTGCTCCT CCGGGTGCTA
301 GCCATCACCA GCTCCTCCAT CCCCAAGAAC ATCCAGAGCC TCAGGTGCCG CCGCTGTGTG
361 GTCGTGGGGA ACGGGCACCG GCTGCGGAAC AGCTCACTGG GAGATGCCAT CAACAAGTAC
421 GATGTGGTCA TCAGATTGAA CAATGCCCCA GTGGCTGGCT ATGAGGGTGA CGTGGGCTCC
481 AAGACCACCA TGCGTCTCTT CTACCCTGAA TCTGCCCACT TCGACCCCAA AGTAGAAAAC
541 AACCCAGACA CACTCCTCGT CCTGGTAGCT TTCAAGGCAA TGGACTTCCA CTGGATTGAG
601 ACCATCCTGA GTGATAAGAA GCGGGTGCGA AAGGGTTTCT GGAAACAGCC TCCCCTCATC
661  TGGGATGTCA ATCCTAAACA GATTCGGATT CTCAACCCCT TCTTCATGGA GATTGCAGCT
721 GACAAACTGC    TGAGCCTGCC AATGCAACAG CCACGGAAGA TTAAGCAGAA GCCCACCACG
781 GGCCTGTTGG CCATCACGCT GGCCCTCCAC CTCTGTGACT          TGGTGCACAT TGCCGGCTTT
841 GGCTACCCAG ACGCCTACAA CAAGAAGCAG ACCATTCACT ACTATGAGCA GATCACGCTC
901 AAGTCCATGG CGGGGTCAGG CCATAATGTC TCCCAAGAGG CCCTGGCCAT TAAGCGGATG
961 CTGGAGATGG GAGCTATCAA GAACCTCACG TCCTTCTGA
Protein Sequence of ST3GAL4 (SEQ ID NO: 7)
  1 MCPAGWKLLA MLALVLVVMV WYSISREDRY          IELFYFPIPE KKEPCLQGEA ESKASKLFGN
 61 YSRDQPIFLR LEDYFWVKTP       SAYELPYGTK GSEDLLLRVL AITSSSIPKN IQSLRCRRCV
121 VVGNGHRLRN SSLGDAINKY DVVIRLNNAP VAGYEGDVGS KTTMRLFYPE          SAHFDPKVEN
181 NPDTLLVLVA FKAMDFHWIE       TILSDKKRVR KGFWKQPPLI WDVNPKQIRI LNPFFMEIAA
241 DKLLSLPMQQ PRKIKQKPTT GLLAITLALH LCDLVHIAGF GYPDAYNKKQ TIHYYEQITL
301 KSMAGSGHNV SQEALAIKRM LEMGAIKNLT          SF
SEQ ID NO: 4
Beta-galactosamide alpha-2,6-sialyltransferase 1
                                             45

Accession number NM_003032
Nucleotide sequence of ST6GAL1
    1 ATGATTCACA CCAACCTGAA GAAAAAGTTC AGCTGCTGCG TCCTGGTCTT TCTTCTGTTT
   61 GCAGTCATCT GTGTGTGGAA GGAAAAGAAG AAAGGGAGTT ACTATGATTC CTTTAAATTG
 121 CAAACCAAGG AATTCCAGGT GTTAAAGAGT CTGGGGAAAT TGGCCATGGG GTCTGATTCC
 181 CAGTCTGTAT CCTCAAGCAG CACCCAGGAC CCCCACAGGG GCCGCCAGAC CCTCGGCAGT
 241 CTCAGAGGCC TAGCCAAGGC CAAACCAGAG GCCTCCTTCC AGGTGTGGAA CAAGGACAGC
 301 TCTTCCAAAA ACCTTATCCC TAGGCTGCAA AAGATCTGGA AGAATTACCT AAGCATGAAC
 361 AAGTACAAAG TGTCCTACAA GGGGCCAGGA CCAGGCATCA AGTTCAGTGC AGAGGCCCTG
 421 CGCTGCCACC TCCGGGACCA TGTGAATGTA TCCATGGTAG AGGTCACAGA TTTTCCCTTC
 481 AATACCTCTG AATGGGAGGG TTATCTGCCC AAGGAGAGCA TTAGGACCAA GGCTGGGCCT
 541 TGGGGCAGGT GTGCTGTTGT GTCGTCAGCG GGATCTCTGA AGTCCTCCCA ACTAGGCAGA
 601 GAAATCGATG ATCATGACGC AGTCCTGAGG TTTAATGGGG CACCCACAGC CAACTTCCAA
 661 CAAGATGTGG GCACAAAAAC TACCATTCGC CTGATGAACT CTCAGTTGGT TACCACAGAG
 721 AAGCGCTTCC TCAAAGACAG TTTGTACAAT GAAGGAATCC TAATTGTATG GGACCCATCT
 781 GTATACCACT CAGATATCCC AAAGTGGTAC CAGAATCCGG ATTATAATTT CTTTAACAAC
 841 TACAAGACTT ATCGTAAGCT GCACCCCAAT CAGCCCTTTT ACATCCTCAA GCCCCAGATG
 901 CCTTGGGAGC TATGGGACAT TCTTCAAGAA ATCTCCCCAG AAGAGATTCA GCCAAACCCC
 961 CCATCCTCTG GGATGCTTGG TATCATCATC ATGATGACGC TGTGTGACCA GGTGGATATT
1021 TATGAGTTCC TCCCATCCAA GCGCAAGACT GACGTGTGCT ACTACTACCA GAAGTTCTTC
1081 GATAGTGCCT GCACGATGGG TGCCTACCAC CCGCTGCTCT ATGAGAAGAA TTTGGTGAAG
1141 CATCTCAACC AGGGCACAGA TGAGGACATC TACCTGCTTG GAAAAGCCAC ACTGCCTGGC
1201 TTCCGGACCA TTCACTGCTA A
Op
Protein Sequence of ST6GAL1 (SEQ ID NO: 8)
   1 MIHTNLKKKF SCCVLVFLLF AVICVWKEKK KGSYYDSFKL QTKEFQVLKS LGKLAMGSDS
 61 QSVSSSSTQD PHRGRQTLGS LRGLAKAKPE ASFQVWNKDS     SSKNLIPRLQ KIWKNYLSMN
121 KYKVSYKGPG PGIKFSAEAL RCHLRDHVNV SMVEVTDFPF NTSEWEGYLP KESIRTKAGP
181 WGRCAVVSSA GSLKSSQLGR EIDDHDAVLR FNGAPTANFQ QDVGTKTTIR LMNSQLVTTE
241 KRFLKDSLYN EGILIVWDPS VYHSDIPKWY QNPDYNFFNN YKTYRKLHPN QPFYILKPQM
301 PWELWDILQE   ISPEEIQPNP PSSGMLGIII MMTLCDQVDI YEFLPSKRKT DVCYYYQKFF
361 DSACTMGAYH PLLYEKNLVK HLNQGTDEDI YLLGKATLPG FRTIHC
                                       46

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933707_l.docx-8 05 2018
CLAIMS:
 1.               A product comprising a follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the treatment of
infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of < 15 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be
administered at a dose of, or equivalent to, 11-13 pg recombinant FSH per day, 12 to 16 days
after administration of a GnRH agonist.
2.                A product for use according to claim 1 wherein the product is to be administered at a dose
of, or equivalent to, 12 pg recombinant FSH per day.
3.                A product comprising a follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the treatment of
infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of               15 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be
administered at a dose of, or equivalent to, 0.09-0.19 pg recombinant FSH per kg body weight of
the patient per day, 12 to 16 days after administration of a GnRH agonist.
4.                A product for use according to claim 3 in the treatment of a patient having serum AMH
level of 15 to 24.9 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be administered at a dose of, or equivalent to,
0.14 to 0.19 pg recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient per day.
5.                A product for use according to claim 3 in the treatment of a patient having serum AMH
level of 25 to 34.9 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be administered at a dose of, or equivalent to,
0.11 to 0.14 pg recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient per day.
6.                A product for use according to claim 3 in the treatment of a patient having serum AMH
level of 35 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be administered at a dose of, or dose equivalent to,
0.10 to 0.11 pg human derived recombinant FSH per kg bodyweight of the patient per day.
7.                A product according to any preceding claim wherein the FSH is recombinant FSH.
8.                A product according to any preceding claim wherein the FSH is human derived
recombinant FSH.
9.                A product according to any preceding claim wherein the FSH is a recombinant FSH which
includes 1, 3- and 2, 6- sialylation.
                                                              47

I: \aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933707_l.docx-8 05 2018
 10.              A product according to claim 9 wherein 1% to 50% of the total sialylation is 2, 6
sialyation, and 50% to 99% of the total sialylation is c2,3- sialyation.
 11.              A product comprising follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the treatment of
infertility according to any preceding claim, wherein the product further comprises a salt
comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable alkali metal cation selected from the group consisting of
Na*- or K*- salts, or a combination thereof.
 12.              A product comprising a follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the treatment of
infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of < 15 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be
administered at a dose of, or equivalent to, 11-13 pg recombinant FSH per day, together with a
GnRH antagonist.
 13.              A product for use according to claim 12 wherein the product is to be administered at a
dose of, or equivalent to, 12 pg recombinant FSH per day.
 14.              A product comprising a follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) for use in the treatment of
infertility in a patient having serum AMH level of               15 pmol/L, wherein the product is to be
administered at a dose of, or equivalent to, 0.09-0.19 pg recombinant FSH per kg body weight of
the patient per day, together with a GnRH antagonist.
 15.              A product for use according to any preceding claim wherein the treatment of infertility
comprises a step of determining the serum AMH level of the patient, and a step of administering
the dose to a patient having the specified serum AMH level.
                                                              48

              H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                             1/7
              Figure 1. FSH expression vector
<removed-apn>

              H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                             2/7
              Figure 2. a2,3-sialyltransferase (ST3GAL4) expression vector
<removed-apn>

              H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                             3/7
              Figure 3. a2,6-sialyltransferase (ST6GAL1) expression vector
<removed-apn>

              H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                                        4/7
              Figure 4 % Abundance (y axis) of Sialic acid distribution
<removed-apn>
                              70
                    % 60                                                                                       Sample 1
                              50                                                                               Sample 2
                              40                                                                               Sample 3
                              30                                                                               Sample 4
                              20                                                                               Sample 5
                              10                                                                               Sample 6
                               0
                                                                                                               Sample 7
                                          2,6 Sialic Acid                    2,3 Sialic Acid   Other Charges
                                                                                                               Sample 8
                                                                                                 than Sialic
                                                                                                    Acid
                                                                    % Abundance Sialic Acid Distribution
              Figure 5 % Abundance (y axis) of rFSH glycan charge distribution.

              H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                             5/7
<removed-apn>    Figure 6: Time-course of inhibin B concentration over time.

                    H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                                   6/7
                    Figure 7: Effect of Body weight on oocytes retrieved (low AMH)
<removed-apn>
              Less than
              0.5 oocytes

              H:\aar\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16933713_1.docx-8/05/2018
<removed-date>
                                                                             7/7
              Figure 8: Effect of Body weight on oocytes retrieved (high AMH)
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   2.5 oocytes
                                                                                           4 oocytes
                                                                                                 6 oocytes

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                                       <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E><U+270E><U+270F><U+261E> <U+2711><U+2712><U+261B><U+2713><U+2712><U+270E><U+2714>
              <U+2715> <U+2701><U+2716>    <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2722><U+271F><U+2723><U+271F>
              <U+2715> <U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>   <U+270F><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2724><U+2727><U+271A><U+2720><U+271A><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2724><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2724><U+271B><U+2720><U+2719><U+2724><U+2605><U+2605><U+2718><U+2729> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+2719><U+271A><U+272C><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2720><U+271A><U+2725><U+272D><U+2605><U+272C><U+2720><U+271A><U+2724><U+271B>
              <U+2715> <U+272E><U+2701><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2731><U+2731><U+2732><U+272E><U+271F><U+2733><U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2716> <U+261E><U+272F>       <U+260E><U+2731><U+2704><U+2701><U+272E><U+271F><U+2706>
              <U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2716> <U+2706><U+2701>     <U+2734><U+2701><U+2704><U+2734><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2715> <U+2731><U+2701><U+2716>    <U+2731>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+272C><U+2720><U+2718><U+271B><U+2720><U+2712><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2718><U+2719><U+2727><U+271A><U+2724><U+271B> <U+272E><U+271F><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720>    <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C>    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C>   <U+2706><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C>   <U+272E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C> <U+272C>            <U+272E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2706>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738>    <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738>    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C> <U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C>   <U+2706><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720>   <U+272E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738>   <U+272E><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C>                                    <U+272E><U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+272E>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+271D><U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+272E>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C>    <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C>    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738>    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C>   <U+2706><U+2732><U+2701>
                                                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C>   <U+272E><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738>   <U+2732><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738>   <U+2732><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738>   <U+2702><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738>   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720>   <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720>   <U+2704><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738>   <U+271D><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C>   <U+271D><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C>                          <U+271D><U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716>   <U+2732>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716>     <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716>   <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716>   <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2732>
              <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720>    <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C>    <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738>    <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720>   <U+2706><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738>   <U+272E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738>   <U+272E><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C>   <U+2732><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738>   <U+2732><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720>   <U+2702><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C>   <U+2731><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C>   <U+2731><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C>   <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738>   <U+2704><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C>   <U+271D><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738>   <U+271D><U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720>   <U+2701><U+2706><U+2701>
                                                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+2706>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C> <U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738>   <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720> <U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C>    <U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738> <U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738> <U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738>   <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C> <U+272C>                                             <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716>    <U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+272F> <U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719>
                              <U+2702>                    <U+2701>                   <U+2702>
              <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724>
                          <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724>
                      <U+272E><U+2702>                  <U+2732><U+2701>                  <U+2732><U+2702>
              <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724>
                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D>
              <U+2731><U+2702>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
                              <U+2704><U+2702>                  <U+271D><U+2701>                  <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+2702>                   <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719>
                        <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716>   <U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716>     <U+2706><U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716>   <U+272F> <U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716>   <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716>   <U+2731>
              <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718>
                              <U+2702>                    <U+2701>                   <U+2702>
              <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727>
                          <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
                      <U+272E><U+2702>                  <U+2732><U+2701>                  <U+2732><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727>
                                                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+272E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+2701>                <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C>
              <U+2731><U+2702>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605>
                              <U+2704><U+2702>                  <U+271D><U+2701>                  <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+2702>                   <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727>
                        <U+2702>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+272E><U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+272F> <U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+260E>
              <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D>
                              <U+2702>                    <U+2701>                   <U+2702>
              <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D>
                          <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
                      <U+272E><U+2702>                  <U+2732><U+2701>                  <U+2732><U+2702>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726>
                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724>
              <U+2731><U+2702>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D>
                              <U+2704><U+2702>                  <U+271D><U+2701>                  <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+2702>                   <U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D>
                        <U+2702>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718>
                   <U+272E><U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+2702>                  <U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719>
               <U+2732><U+2702>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2731><U+2701>
                                                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+2732>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724>
                               <U+2731><U+2702>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727>
                           <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2702>                  <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C>
                       <U+271D><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B>
                  <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706> <U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C>
              <U+2706><U+2706><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+272E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+272E><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B>
                              <U+2706><U+2732><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727>
                          <U+2706><U+2731><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2731><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727>
                      <U+2706><U+260E><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C>
                  <U+2706><U+271D><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+271D><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720>
              <U+272E><U+2701><U+2702>                 <U+272E> <U+2701>                 <U+272E> <U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718>
                              <U+272E><U+2706><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+2732><U+2701><U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+272F> <U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2737><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724> <U+2727><U+272C><U+2726><U+271A><U+2718><U+271B><U+2727>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2704>
              <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605>
                              <U+2702>                    <U+2701>                   <U+2702>
              <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
                          <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>                  <U+272E><U+2701>
              <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D>
                      <U+272E><U+2702>                  <U+2732><U+2701>                  <U+2732><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719>
                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2731><U+2701>
                                                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+2702>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+2731><U+2702>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702>                  <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726>
                              <U+2704><U+2702>                  <U+271D><U+2701>                  <U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718>
                           <U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+2702>                   <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
                        <U+2702>                  <U+2706><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D>
                   <U+272E><U+2701>                  <U+272E><U+2702>                  <U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718>
               <U+2732><U+2702>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2702>                  <U+2731><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719>
                               <U+2731><U+2702>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719>
                           <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2702>                  <U+271D><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605>
                       <U+271D><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
                  <U+2706> <U+2701>                 <U+2706> <U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D>
              <U+2706><U+2706><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+272E><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+272E><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2732><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605>
                              <U+2706><U+2732><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B>
                          <U+2706><U+2731><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2731><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727>
                      <U+2706><U+260E><U+2702>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D>
                  <U+2706><U+271D><U+2701>                 <U+2706><U+271D><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724>
              <U+272E><U+2701><U+2702>                 <U+272E> <U+2701>                 <U+272E> <U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726>
                              <U+272E><U+2706><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+272E><U+2701>                 <U+272E><U+272E><U+2702>
                                                   <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+2731>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605>
                          <U+272E><U+2732><U+2701>                 <U+272E><U+2732><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2720> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C>
                      <U+272E><U+2702><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2731><U+2701>                 <U+272E><U+2731><U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2723><U+272C><U+2605> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2605><U+271B>
                  <U+272E><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+272E><U+260E><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+2704><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2714><U+2605><U+272D> <U+2736><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702> <U+2711><U+2702><U+2727> <U+2736><U+2605><U+272C> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2718><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2605><U+2702>
              <U+272E><U+2704><U+2702>                 <U+272E><U+271D><U+2701>                 <U+272E><U+271D><U+2702>                 <U+2732><U+2701><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+2704><U+2718> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2704><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2605><U+2718> <U+2737><U+271A><U+2727> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2727>
                              <U+2732><U+2701><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2717><U+261B><U+2737><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+271D>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C> <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738>                        <U+272E><U+271D>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2717><U+261B><U+2737><U+272C><U+2734><U+2719><U+2718><U+272B>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2701>
              <U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720> <U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2738>                                <U+272E>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2717><U+261B><U+2737><U+2704><U+2734> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738>                            <U+272E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2717><U+261B><U+2737><U+2704><U+2734><U+2719><U+2718><U+272B>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2706>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+271C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C>                           <U+272E><U+2731>
                                                      <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720>
<removed-date>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+272E>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2706> <U+272E><U+261B><U+2713> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+272E>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2738> <U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738>          <U+272E><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716>  <U+2732>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2706> <U+272E><U+261B><U+2713><U+2719><U+2718><U+272B>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716>   <U+2732>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C> <U+271C><U+272C><U+2738><U+271C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720><U+271C>            <U+272E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2706> <U+2731><U+261B><U+2713> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2702>
              <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738><U+271C> <U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+2720> <U+2720><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+272C><U+2738><U+2738><U+272C><U+272C><U+2738> <U+2738><U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+271C>           <U+272E><U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2716>  <U+2731>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2716> <U+272E><U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2716> <U+2735><U+270E><U+2736>
              <U+2715><U+2706> <U+272E><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2719><U+2720><U+271A> <U+271A><U+2738><U+271A><U+272C><U+2605> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2701><U+272D><U+2718><U+271B><U+2738><U+2718>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2706><U+2706><U+272E><U+2716>   <U+272F><U+270F>   <U+2726><U+2719><U+271A><U+2725><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2706> <U+2731><U+261B><U+2713><U+2719><U+2718><U+272B>
              <U+2715><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716>   <U+2731>
              <U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2720><U+2738><U+2720><U+2720> <U+272C><U+272C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2720><U+272C><U+271C><U+2738><U+272C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2720><U+271C><U+271C><U+2720><U+2738><U+2738> <U+271C><U+271C>               <U+272E><U+2706>
                                                    <U+272F><U+272C><U+271C><U+2718> <U+2704>

