                             ABSTRACT
         The present invention provides a system and computer
   program for preparing data for analysis.   One embodiment
 5 of the method comprises the steps of receiving a mapping
   input data set including a plurality of records, and each
   of the plurality of records including an identifier
   attribute and one or more associative attributes that
   identifies a further one or more records, and forming one
10 or more networks from records within the data set based on
   the identifier and associative attributes.

     A SYSTEM, METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR PREPARING DATA
                            FOR ANALYSIS
   Cross Reference to Related Application
 5
          The present application is a divisional application
   of Australian patent application no. <removed-apn>, which in
   turn is a divisional application of Australian patent
   application no. 2010202901, the disclosure of both of
10 which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the
   disclosure of these applications is also included herein,
   however, reference may be made to the specifications of
   application no. <removed-apn> and application no. 2010202901
   as filed or as accepted to gain further understanding of
15 the invention claimed herein.
   Field of the Invention
          The present invention relates to a system, method and
20 computer program for collating and preparing data for
   subsequent use in a data analysis process.    Embodiments of
   the invention find particular, but not exclusive use in
   the collation and preparation of patent data.    Other
   embodiments of the invention may find use in the collation
25 and preparation of data in relation to trade marks,
   scientific publications, and court   judgments.
   Background of the Invention
30       With the advent of cheap and powerful computing
   systems and the development of the electronic database,
   there has been an explosion in the collection and
   electronic storage of data related to almost all areas of

                                - 2
   technology, industry, commerce and society.     Data is
   generally held, in many instance, in the form of a
   "record", which typically comprises a series of attributes
   that describe a real world object or event.     For example,
 5 one type of data record is a health record, which holds
   information regarding the attributes of a given person,
   such as their height, gender, weight, existing and past
   medical conditions, etc.    Another type of data record is a
   database of scientific publications, the database
10 including attributes regarding the publications    such as
   the authors of each publication, citations or references
   to other publications, and the subject matter of each
   publication.
          Another structured set of data is data describing
15 intellectual property rights,    such as patent data records
   or trade mark data records.    Many countries have legal
   regimes where owners or creators of intellectual property
   can register their rights to an invention, a sign and/or a
   design.   Such records are highly structured and include a
20 large number of attributes, such as a date of    filing, the
   name of the Owner or Applicant, the names of the
   Inventors, data regrading the history of the invention and
   particular intellectual property office classification
   codes,  such as the IPC  (International Patent
25 Classification) code, plus other attributes that describe
   the nature of the intellectual property right.
          As patent data is effectively a record of innovative
   activity, value can be derived from searching patent data
   to extract commercially useful information.
30        However, as an ever growing number of patents are
   filed every year, due to a constant increase in the rate
   of technological development and a greater awareness of
   the legal rights covering inventions, patent databases now

                                - 3
   contain millions or tens of millions of records, and in
   turn each record contains a large and complex set of
   attributes.   Therefore, traditional methods for searching
   such databases   (such as by looking for keywords in the
 5 Title, Abstract or Applicant Details)   lack precision, are
   prone to error and can return large and unwieldy data
   sets.
         More importantly, without seeking professional
   assistance and studying each patent   specification in
10 detail, it is difficult to judge the relative worth or
   "merit" of a particular patent, or the underlying
   invention protected by the patent, in comparison to other
   patents and patented inventions.    As such, traditional
   search methodologies struggle to adequately provide any
15 sophisticated or high level information regarding the
   relative merit or worth of a patent.
   Summary of the Invention
20       In a first aspect, the present invention provides a
   computer-implemented method of automated preparation of a
   set of data for analysis, the method comprising the steps
   of:
          (a) retrieving from non-volatile memory or via a
25 communication network a mapping input data set including a
   plurality of records, each of the plurality of records
   including an identifier attribute value and at least one
   associative attribute value, the identifier attribute
   value being an identifier for the record and each
30 associative attribute value being an identifier of another
   record;
          (b) forming one or more networks from records of the
   mapping input data set by:

              (c) determining a plurality of direct
         connections, each one direct connection linking one
         record of the plurality of data records of the
         mapping input data set to another one record of the
 5       mapping input data set as a pair of data records,
         where the identifier attribute value of one record of
         the pair is the same as an associative attribute
         value of the other record of the pair;  and
              (d) determining a set of records for each of the
10       one or more networks based on the direct connections,
         where each record of the network forms a pair via a
         direct connection with at least one other record in
         the network;
   and
15       (e) processing at least one of the one or more
   networks for further analysis or display.
   In an embodiment the method further comprises preparing
   the mapping data set by performing the steps of:
20       (f) retrieving from non-volatile memory or via a
   communication network an initial input data set including
   one or more records, each of the records including an
   identifier attribute value and at least one associative
   attribute value, the identifier attribute value being an
25 identifier for the record and each associative attribute
   value being an identifier of another record;
         (g) identifying one or more further records to
   retrieve by comparing each associative attribute value
   from each of the records in the input data set with the
30 identifier attribute values of each of the records in the
   input data set, to determine any associative attribute
   values not matching any one of the identifier attributes
   values of records in the input data set, the associative

                               - 5
   attribute values not matching any one of the identifier
   attributes being identifier attributes of the one or more
   further records to retrieve;
          (h) retrieving from non-volatile memory or via a
 5 communication network the identified further records to
   retrieve;
          (i) associating the retrieved one or more further
   records with the initial data set to update the input data
   set;  and
10        (j) providing the updated initial data set as the
   mapping input data set.   Steps  (g) to  (i) can be repeated
   until an end criteria is satisfied.
   In an embodiment the initial input data set is retrieved
15 in accordance with a search query arranged to extract the
   initial input data set from a database of data records.
   The plurality of data records can include any one or more
   of:  information regarding patents, information regarding
20 registered trade marks and information regarding
   scientific publications and for each record the identifier
   attribute value is any one of a serial number, an
   application number or a publication number, used to
   identify the document associated with the record.     For
25 each record each associative attribute value of the at
   least one associative attribute values can be an
   identifier attribute value of a citation whereby the
   associative attributes for a record provide a list of
   citations for the record.
30
   In an embodiment of the method step    (e) comprises for at
   least one network the steps of:
          (k) identifying at least one pair of data records in

                                -  6
   the network having a direct connection and, for each
   selected pair of data records;
          (1) identifying any one or more indirect connections
   linking the pair of data records via one or more
 5 intermediate records, each indirect connection consisting
   of x direct connections forming an x degree of separation
   link between the pair of data records, where x is a
   variable number between 2 and a maximum value n,     and the
   value of x may be different    for each indirect connection.
10
   In another embodiment of the method step     (e) further
   comprises the steps of:
          (m)  counting the number of indirect connections
   identified for each pair of records to derive a total
15 count  for the links between the data records of the pair;
          (o) setting a threshold level for the total count
   value between each pair of data records;
          (p) removing a direct link of any pair of data
   records having a total count value below the set threshold
20 level;  and
          (q) removing all data records that then no longer
   have a direct connection to any other record in the
   network from the reduced set for the network.
25 In an embodiment step   (e) further comprises the steps of:
          (r) counting the number of instances of indirect
   links  for each of degree of separation value x to derive a
   separation value for each of the degrees of separation for
   the pair of data records;
30        (s) multiplying each respective separation value with
   a multiplier assigned for the degree of separation to
   derive a count value  for each degree of separation;     and
          (t) summing the count value for each degree of

                                - 7
   separation to derive a total count value.     For example, in
   an embodiment the maximum value of n equals 2.
   In an embodiment the threshold level for the total count
 5 value between each pair of data records is set based on a
   user selection.
   An embodiment of the method further comprises the steps of
         ascribing a size value to each of the one or more
10 networks, the size value being based on the number of data
   records in the reduced set for the network, and
         selecting one or more networks    for further analysis
   or display based on size value, wherein the selection is
   based on any one of:
15       a largest  size value;
         a set  size value threshold;  and
         a size value ratio value as a function of a largest
   size value.
20 In embodiment of the method further comprises the step of
         ranking the one or more networks wherein ranking is
   based on any one or more of:
         a subject matter value determined for at least one of
   the one or more networks based on one or more    subject
25 matter attribute values for each of the records in the
   network; and
         user input regarding one or more subject matter
   attribute values,
   wherein subject matter attribute values include any one or
30 more of:
         number of times one or more key words appear;
         number of forward citations;
         number of family members;   and

                                -  8
         international patent classification     (IPC) code.
   In an embodiment step   (e) comprises displaying at least
   one of the one or more networks of data records utilising
 5 a visualisation methodology.      For example, in an
   embodiment at least one of the one or more networks is
   displayed as a map of interconnected nodes, each record
   being represented as a node and in response to a user
   selecting a node record data for the node is displayed.
10
   In another embodiment step    (e) comprises constructing and
   outputting a related list of documents for one or more of
   the data networks.   For example, the related list can be a
   ranked list.
15
   In a second aspect, the present invention provides a
   system for the automated preparation of a set of data for
   analysis comprising:
         a processor; and
20       a storage device;
   the processor including:
         a retrieving module configured to retrieve,     from non
   volatile memory or via a communication network, and store
   on the storage device a mapping input data set including a
25 plurality of records, each of the plurality of records
   including an identifier attribute value and at least one
   associative attribute value, the identifier attribute
   value being an identifier for the record and each
   associative attribute value being an identifier of another
30 record; and
         a linking module configured to form one or more
   networks from records of the mapping input data set by:
             determining a plurality of direct connections,

                               - 9
         each one direct connection linking one record of the
         plurality of data records of the mapping input data
         set to another one record of the mapping input data
         set as a pair of data records, where the identifier
 5       attribute value of one record of the pair is the same
         as an associative attribute value of the other record
         of the pair;
             determining a set of records for each of the one
         or more networks based on the direct connections,
10       where each record of the network forms a pair via a
         direct connection with at least one other record in
         the network;  and
             storing the at least one or more networks on the
         storage means  for retrieval for further analysis or
15       display.
   In an embodiment of the system the processor further
   includes an association module configured to, prepare the
   mapping input data set by, in response to one or more
20 records being retrieved and stored as an input data set,
   identify one or more  further records to retrieve by
   comparing each associative attribute value from each of
   the data records in the input data set with the identifier
   attribute value of each of the records in the input data
25 set, to determine any associative attribute values not
   matching any one of the identifier attributes values of
   records in the input data set, the associative attribute
   values not matching any one of the identifier attributes
   being identifier attributes of the one or more further
30 records to retrieve;
         the retrieval module being further arranged to
   retrieve from non-volatile memory or via a communication
   network and store in the storage device the identified

                              - 10
   further records to retrieve;  and
         the association module being further arranged to
   associate the retrieved one or more further records with
   the initial data set to form the mapping input data set
 5 and store the mapping input data set in the storage
   device.
   The linking module can be further configured to, in
   response to the one or more networks being formed, for at
10 least one network:
         identify at least one pair of data records in the
   network having a direct connection and, for each selected
   pair of data records; and
         identify any one or more indirect connections linking
15 the pair of data records via one or more intermediate
   records, each indirect connection consisting of x direct
   connections forming an x degree of separation link between
   the pair of data records, where x is a variable number
   between 2 and a maximum value n, and the value of x may be
20 different for each indirect connection.  In this
   embodiment the processor can further include a reduction
   module configured to, in response to the linking module
   identifying indirect connections for a network:
         count the number of indirect connections identified
25 for each pair of records to derive a total count for the
   links between the data records of the pair;
         set a threshold level for the total count value
   between each pair of data records;
         remove a direct link of any pair of data records
30 having a total count value below the threshold level;  and
         remove all data records that then no longer have a
   direct connection to any other record in the network, to
   reduce the number of data records in the set of records

                               - 11
   for the network.   In an embodiment the maximum value of n
   equals 2.
   The system processor can further include a ranking module
 5 configured to rank the one or more records of a network.
   An embodiment of the system further comprises:
         a display;  and
         the processor further including a visualisation
10 module configured to control display on the display of at
   least one of the one or more selected networks of data
   records utilising a visualisation methodology.
         The step of receiving an initial data set may be
   preceded by the step of inputting a search query arranged
15 to extract the initial data set from a database of data
   records.
         The plurality of records may include information
   regarding patents, and if so, the identifier attribute may
   be one of a patent serial number or a patent application
20 number.   Also, the associative attribute may be a list of
   citations, including at least one of forward citations and
   backward citations.
         The plurality of records may also represent
   information regarding trade marks, with the attributes
25 comprising citations by trade marks examiners to earlier
   published trade marks that are   similar to the trade mark
   application being examined, and in a similar class of
   goods and services.
         The plurality of records may also represent
30 information regarding scientific publications, with the
   attributes comprising citations by the authors to earlier
   scientific publications.
         The method steps may be iterated one or more times.

                               - 12
          In one embodiment, each of the data records received
   may be reviewed to determine whether the data record is in
   a format suitable for analysis, and if not, the data
   record may be reformatted or removed.
 5        In an embodiment, the method may comprise the further
   step of selecting only the network with the largest size
   value.
          In another embodiment, the method may comprise the
   further step of:
10        setting a predetermined size value;
          comparing the predetermined size value to the size
   value  for each of the one or more networks; and
          selecting only the one or more networks that have a
   size value greater than the predetermined size value.
15        In yet another embodiment, the method may comprise
   the further step of:
          setting a predetermined ratio value as a function of
   the largest size value;
          determining a ratio value for each of the one or more
20 networks as a function of the predetermined ratio;   and
          selecting only the one or more networks that are less
   than the predetermined ratio.
          A subject matter value may be selected for each of
   the one or more networks, and only the one or more
25 networks that have a subject matter value that is
   substantially similar to one or more predetermined subject
   matter values may be selected.
          Selecting the subject matter value may include the
   further step of identifying one or more subject matter
30 attributes for each of the records in each of the one or
   more networks and utilising the one or more subject matter
   attributes to derive a subject matter value.
          The step of utilising the one or more subject

                              -   13
   attributes may include the further step of providing at
   least one of the one or more subject matter attributes to
   a user for review and receiving user input    regarding the
   subject matter value.  The   subject matter value may be
 5 utilised to rank the records.
         One of the subject matter attributes may be a
   computed network value using the association through
   direct and indirect forward citations and the step of
   ranking includes ranking the data records from highest
10 network value to the least network value.
         One of the subject matter attributes may be the
   number of family members, wherein the step of ranking
   includes ranking the data records from most family members
   to least family members.
15       One of the subject matter attributes may be an
   International Patent Classification    (IPC) code, wherein
   the step of ranking includes ranking the data records from
   most popular IPC to least popular IPC.
         One of the subject matter attributes may be the
20 number of times one or more keywords appears in the
   subject matter attribute, wherein the step of ranking
   includes ranking the data records from most number of
   times one or more keywords appear in the subject matter
   attribute to least number of times the keywords appear in
25 the subject matter attribute.
         In another aspect, the present invention provides a
   computer program, including at least one instruction,
   which, when executed on a computing system, is arranged to
   implement a method in accordance with one or more of the
30 first aspect of the invention.

                               - 14
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
 5       Notwithstanding any other embodiments that may fall
   within the scope of the present invention, an embodiment
   of the present invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying figures,
   in which:
10       Figure 1 is an example computing device utilizable to
   carry out a methodology in accordance with an embodiment
   of the invention;
         Figure 2 is a process flow that describes an aspect
   of an embodiment of the invention;
15       Figures  3 and 4 are network maps which describe a
   simplified example of an aspect of an embodiment of the
   invention;
         Figure 5 is a process flow that describes another
   aspect of an embodiment of the invention;
20       Figures  6 and 7 are network maps which describe a
   simplified example of another aspect of an embodiment of
   the invention;
         Figure 8 is a process flow that describes yet  another
   aspect of an embodiment of the invention;  and
25       Figures  9, 10, 11 and 12 are network maps which
   describe a simplified example of yet another aspect of an
   embodiment of the invention.
30

                               -  15
   Detailed Description of an Embodiment
 5        The foregoing description describes only a preferred
   embodiment of the broader invention and modifications,
   obvious to those skilled in the art, can be made without
   departing from the scope of the broader invention
   described in the specification as a whole.
10        Referring to Figure 1, an embodiment of the present
   invention is illustrated.    This embodiment is arranged to
   provide a system for preparing and collating data for
   future substantive analysis.     At a broad level, the
   embodiment comprises an interface for receiving user
15 instructions and displaying results, and a processor for
   executing user commands, including commands to collect
   data in a suitable manner for further processing.      In this
   example embodiment, the interface and processor are
   implemented by a computer  system having an appropriate
20 user interface.   The computer system may be implemented by
   any computing architecture, including stand-alone PC,
   client/server architecture, "dumb" terminal/mainframe
   architecture, or any other appropriate architecture.      The
   computing system is appropriately programmed to implement
25 the embodiment described herein.
          In this embodiment, there is provided a local
   database containing patent data records.     In another
   embodiment, it will be understood that the system may
   access a separately located and/or administered database
30 containing patent data records.     The database may be
   separately administered by a Government authority or third
   party.
          Referring in detail to Figure 1, there is shown a

                                -  16
   schematic diagram of a computing device which in this
   embodiment is a computing system 100.      The system 100
   comprises suitable components necessary to receive, store
   and execute appropriate computer instructions.      The
 5 components may include a processing unit 102, read-only
   memory   (ROM) 104, random access memory   (RAM) 106,  and
   input/output devices   such as disk drives 108, input
   devices 110 such as an Ethernet port, a USB port, etc.
   Display 112   such as a liquid crystal display, a light
10 emitting display or any other suitable display and
   communications links   114.   The  system 100 includes
   instructions that may be included in ROM 104, RAM 106 or
   disk drives 108 and may be executed by the processing unit
   102.   There may be provided a plurality of communication
15 links  114 which may variously connect to one or more
   computing devices such as a server, personal computers,
   terminals, wireless or handheld computing devices.       At
   least one of a plurality of communications link may be
   connected to an external computing network through a
20 telephone line or other type of communications link.
          The system may include storage devices such as a disk
   drive 108 which may encompass solid state drives, hard
   disk drives, optical drives or magnetic tape drives.        The
   system 100 may use a single disk drive or multiple disk
25 drives.    The system 100 may also have a suitable operating
   system 116 which resides on the disk drive or in the ROM
   of the system 100.
          The system has a database 120 residing on a disk or
   other storage device which is arranged to store at least
30 one record 122 providing patent related data.      The
   database 120 is in communication with an interface
   (comprising one or more of the abovementioned components),
   which is implemented by computer software residing on the

                               - 17
   system 100.   The interface provides a means by which the
   data may be appropriately searched and collated.
         The interface is connected to the processor and is
   arranged to facilitate both the entering of user commands
 5 and the display of information to the user.
         To perform an analysis of patent records held in the
   database, it is important to firstly ensure that the data
   records extracted from the database is reliable and
   "clean"  (i.e. the data should ideally contain few or no
10 errors and should be in a format that allows maximum
   information to be extracted from the records).   It is
   commonly thought that patent records and patent databases
   are a clean and reliable source of information.   However,
   even Government maintained databases are prone to human
15 error and/or may not provide the facilities required to
   easily extract large amounts of data in a format suitable
   for substantive analysis.
         Therefore, as a first step, it is necessary to
   correctly select appropriate patent records to be used in
20 any subsequent analysis.   The process is shown, generally
   at 200 in Figure 2.   At step 202, the user first defines a
   search query which is designed to extract relevant data
   records from a patent database.   It will be understood
   that any suitable process may be used to arrive at the
25 search query.   At step 204, the search query is used to
   extract the set of data records.   In more detail, at step
   204a, a list of backward citations is identified within
   the list of attributes of each data record and at step
   204b a list of forward citations is identified within the
30 list of attributes of each data record.
         It  should be noted that in the context of the
   embodiments described herein, the term  "forward citation"
   refers to a data record that contains, as an attribute

                                  -   18
   value, a reference to another data record, while a
   "backward (or reverse) citation" refers to the data record
   that is referenced by another data record.           It will be
   understood that in the context of embodiments described
 5 the terms    "forward" and  "backward" do not imply any
   chronological     (or other) order.
          At step 206, the backward and forward citations are
   compared to the list of data records originally extracted
   from the database and all identified citations that are
10 not listed as data records in the current list of data
   records are extracted.      These may be termed      "additional
   data records".      At step 208,    information regarding the
   additional data records is extracted from the database.
   The extracted data records are concentrated to the
15 original list of data records to create an amended list of
   data records.
          This process may be iterated a number of times             (210),
   until the user is satisfied       (212).     For example, the user
   may be satisfied with just one iteration, or be satisfied
20 once a certain number of data records have been collected.
          The process shown in Figure 2 is best described by
   use of a simplified example shown in Figures 3 and 4 and
   with the aid of Tables 1 to 4.
          Referring to Figure 3, there is shown a diagrammatic
25 representation of a set of data records which are also
   listed in Table 1.
                                  Table 1
         Data Record         Backward Citations       Forward Citation
              A                      B                     C,E
              B                      D                     C,F
              C                     A, B                    D
              D                      C                      B
              E                      A                     F,G

                                                 -   19
                 As can be seen from Table 1, data records A through E
   have a number of backward and forward citations.                            As can
   be seen from Figure 3 and Table 1, a number of the data
 5 records are                    "interlinked" by virtue of the fact that they
   either cite or are cited by at least one other data
   record.               However, it will be noted that the citations for
   B and E refer to records F and G which are not listed in
   the search results of the original list of data records
10   (i.e. referring to Column 1 of Table 1, the only records
   uncovered in the first search were data records A through
   E).          The additional records              (namely F and G)    are then
   extracted from a database to produce Table 2 and
   subsequently, are combined with the original data set to
15 form the table shown in Table 3.
                                                 Table 2
                Data Record                 Backward Citations       Forward Citation
                          F                         B                      C
                          G                        D, H                     I
                                                 Table 3
                Data Record                 Backward Citations       Forward Citation
                          A                         B                     C,E
                          B                         D                     C,F
                          C                        A, B                    D
                          D                         C                      B
                          E                         A                     F, G
                          F                         B                      C
                          G                        D, H                     I
20
                 Referring now to Figure 4, there is shown a map of
   the data records listed in Table 3.                         It can be seen that
   data records H and I, while identified as a citation, do
                      P84579.AU.1
   7533700_1 (GHMatters)

                                 -   20
   not appear in the original list of located data records
   (i.e. Column 1 in Table 3).       As such, the process can be
   iterated again to determine the backward and forward
   citations of data records H and I as shown in Table 4.
 5 However, for the purposes of this simplified example, it
   is assumed that the user believes the results extracted
   provide a suitably comprehensive list of records which are
   adequate for any intended analysis and as such, no further
   searching is undertaken.
10
                                 Table 4
         Data Record       Backward Citations        Forward Citation
              A                     B                        C
              B                     D                       C,F
              C                    A, B                      D
              D                     C                        B
              E                     A                       F,G
              F                     B                        C
              G                    D, H
              H          (Not extracted from the  (Not extracted from the
                          data base or used in     data base or used in
                                analysis).               analysis).
              I          (Not extracted from the  (Not extracted from the
                          data base or used in     data base or used in
                                analysis).               analysis).
          This methodology alone provides a powerful analysis
   tool since it allows the user to construct a map or a
15 related list of documents that extends beyond the search
   results that would appear when utilising a conventional
   search methodology.   In the embodiment described herein,
   this methodology finds two uses.         Firstly, the methodology
   is utilisable as  "one click" type process within the
20 broader software application, where a user can choose to
   "expand the network" after performing an initial keyword
   search by merely clicking on the        "expand network" button

                               -  21
   that is assembled through the user interface.     More
   importantly, the methodology described above is a first
   step in a broader methodology that allows for
   sophisticated and substantive analysis and visualisation
 5 of patent data.
         Once the methodology describe above has been carried
   out, the user may choose to perform some more detailed
   analysis on the patent records identified.
         Once a set of data records including their citations
10 have been downloaded, the data records may be linked to
   form one or more  "networks" of data records.
         In the context of the specification and the
   embodiments described herein, the term    "network" is
   utilised to describe a conceptual entity where data
15 records are associated to each other directly through a
   forward or backward citation or by a common attribute
   value  (e.g. two patent data records which share a common
   citation are associated or    "linked" by the fact that they
   share the same citation).    Moreover, when referring to the
20 visualisation of the association between records, the
   terms  "network" and more specifically   "network
   visualisation" are utilised to denote a spatial
   visualisation technique where data records may be
   presented in a visual, spatial format in either a
25 two-dimensional or three-dimensional space by assigning a
   two-dimensional or three-dimensional closed shape to each
   data record  (e.g. each data record may be denoted by a
   sphere) and utilising a one-dimensional connector     (e.g. a
   line) to denote an association or link    (i.e. a common
30 attribute) between each node.     In other words, it will be
   understood that the term "network" may refer to both the
   visual representation of a number of data records and also
   to the abstract construct the linkage between various data

                                - 22
   records by virtue of the association between data records
   that have a common attribute value.     One methodology for
   building a visual "network" is described with reference to
   Figure 5.
 5       In Figure 5, there is shown a process flow 500, which
   includes a first step of downloading the data records 502
   followed by a linking step 504 where data records are
   linked together to form one or more networks.     The data
   records are linked using citation data.
10       At step 506,   isolated data records are removed.    That
   is, data records which are not linked to any other data
   record by known citation information are removed from the
   network.    At step 508, as it is possible that a number of
   independent networks may have been formed, then, the size
15 of each network is counted.     If there are a number of
   networks then the methodology moves to step 510, to
   determine whether further analysis should be applied to
   each network.    If there are multiple networks, then four
   possible methodologies may be utilised to further analyse
20 each network, as denoted by steps 510a, 510b,    510c and
   510d.   At 510a, the largest network, only is selected
   (i.e. all other networks are ignored and no further
   analysis is applied).    At 510b, one or more networks are
   selected by utilising a minimum size methodology.     That
25 is, only networks with a number of data records greater
   than a predetermined number are    selected for further
   analysis.    At step 510c, the user can identify and select
   a cluster from a number of clusters within a network, the
   cluster   (rather than the network as a whole) having a
30 number of data records greater than a predetermined number
   of records.    At step 510d, the user may choose to select
   one or more networks based on the subject matter defined
   by the networks.    As such, the user can choose to focus on

                                - 23
   particular  subsections of the network map as a whole by
   only concentrating on networks that are of immediate
   interest or are of a suitable size.
         Optionally, the user may then proceed to step 512.
 5 The user would only proceed to step 512 if step 510d is
   selected.   That is,  step 512 provides a number of
   methodologies for identifying the subject matter of each
   network  (or cluster within a network).   At step 512a, the
   user may be provided with a facility to individually view
10 data related to each node in the network    (e.g. the user
   may be able to view a list of attribute values    for each of
   the data records within a network) so that the user can
   subjectively review the attributes of each data record and
   decide whether the subject matter is appropriate or of
15 interest.   Alternatively, at step 512b an automated
   sorting method may be employed, which may include
   techniques such as ranking data records by the number of
   forward citations, the number of family methods or any
   other suitable method and then only displaying those
20 records to the user to allow the user to then return to
   step 512a and subjectively review only those records.
         Alternatively, at step 512c another automated
   methodology is provided, namely that a classification
   attribute is used   (for example an International Patent
25 Classification Code) to identify the relevant    subject
   matter of data records with a cluster or within a network.
         At 512d there is shown yet another variation, namely
   the use of popular and technically related words to
   identify and classify data records.
30       It will also be understood that variations on steps a
   through d  (including combinations of different
   methodologies) may also be utilised.    Alternatively,
   various automated semantic text analysis methods may be

                                  - 24
   utilised.
             Returning to step 510,  once the data has been
   collated correctly, the data may then be used as an input
   to further substantive analysis.       Alternatively, the data
 5 may be modelled using appropriate visualisation software
   to create a network map.
             The methodology described above is best explained
   through use of an example.
             Referring to Figure 6, there is shown a network map
10 which lists the results of a search for children's authors
   in a database using a set of search criteria.        The results
   in this simplified example identify eight       (8) data
   records.      Using citation relationships the eight    (8)
   records form two non-connected data sets.
15           A manual review of the subject matter shows that
   three of the data records in fact referred to authors who
   wrote     for adults and not for children.   As such, the data
   records that are not relevant can be removed from the data
   set to arrive at the network map shown in Figure 7.
20 Alternatively, in the example given the selection of the
   largest network would have also correctly identified the
   children's authors.
             Once a network has been created, it will be
   understood that the visualisation      (i.e. the display of the
25 network to an end user) will not always convey useful
   information, due to the fact that the network may contain
   thousands, tens of thousands or potentially hundreds of
   thousands of nodes, such that larger clusters of nodes may
   partially or wholly obscure other clusters of nodes.         As
30 such, there is a need to provide a methodology for
   reducing the number of data records in a network to make
   the structure easier to visualise and interpret.         For the
   purposes of better describing this embodiment, it is

                                       -  25
   instructive to provide some definitions.
             In the context of the foregoing embodiment, a                     "Direct
   Link" is a direct citation link between two data records.
            An    "Indirect Connection" is any link between data
 5 records      DA  and  DB which is   not a   direct    link    (i.e.      DA  links
   to   DB  through one or more intermediate           data records           Dc,   DD
   etc);
             a  "Path Link" refers to the number of data records
   found in the shortest path between any two data records;
10           an   "Intermediate Data Record" refers to any data
   record that lies in the shortest path between any two
   outer records that are not directly connected;
             a  "Two Degrees of Separation Link" refers to any
   indirect      connection between any two data records                  DA  and    DB
15 that has a path link of 2           (i.e. there is only one data
   record Dc between         DA and  DB);  and
             an   "N Degree of Separation Link" refers to any
   indirection connection between any two data records that
   has a path link of N.
20          With these definitions in mind, there is now
   described an embodiment which allows for the automatic
   selection and culling of data records to be used in a
   network visualisation or any other data analysis.                         The
   embodiment is described with reference to flowchart 800 in
25 Figure 8.        At 802,    a set of data records is selected, such
   that all data records are linked to each other either
   directly or indirectly.           At steps 806 to 810, there are
   shown two possible methods for reducing the number of data
   records within the particular network.                 At 804A, there is
30 shown the two degree separation link count methodology.
   At step 806,        for each direct citation link between every
   connected pair         of data  records   DA  and  DB    (where     DA  and    DB
   are also two degree of separation links),                  the number of

                                        - 26
   data records D 1 that     directly      link    to both    DA  and     DB   are
   counted to provide a value for a citation link                      (C2).      At
   808,     a minimum value of C2 is selected           (i.e.     C 2 MIN).      All
                                                                           2
   direct links where the C2 value is less than the                      C   MIN  are
 5 removed at     step 810.    At step 810 all data records that
   are not     connected to the network after the direct links
   are removed in step 3 are also removed.                At step 814
                                                            2
   (which is optional),      different values of          C   MIN   are utilised
   to determine the effect of each different value on the
10 final     structure of the network.
             The methodology is explained further with reference
   to an example and Figures           9, 10 and 11.      A    set of data
   records which are linked to the connections between people
   within an organisation.            In the example, Jim shares
15 knowledge with Catherine directly but Jim also mentors to
   other people who also mentor Catherine.                Therefore, as
   shown in Figure      10 each link has a value of 1.                  However,
   if we wish to identify the strongest relationship in the
   organisation, we firstly calculate the C2 value for each
20 pair which is displayed in Figure 10.               As can be seen in
   Figure 10,     the mentoring relationship between Jim and
   Catherine is assigned a C2 value of 2, which represents
   two     'Two Degrees of Separation' Links.            However, there are
   other mentoring relationships, and an attempt to focus on
25 the strongest relationship, the organisation assigns a
     2
   C   MIN  value of 2.   Therefore, since the mentoring
   relationships between Jim and Jing, Jim and Sarah, Jing
   and Catherine, and Sarah and Catherine each only have a C2
   value of 1 in this present diagram, before all
30 relationships are removed as shown in Figure                   9A.      If we
   expand this across an entire organisation                 (i.e. include
   members of the organisation not              shown in Figures          9 and
   10),     we arrive at the final chart of Figure 11.                   At the

                                  -   27
   end of the process, only direct links with a C2 value
   greater than 2 and only data records that remain linked to
   a network are retained.      That is,     Jing, Sarah and others
   are removed from the initial network and only four people
 5 remain in Figure 9.      As such, the principal or main
   mentors and their relationship to the other main mentors
   are shown and it can be seen that Xi is the          "main" or
   central mentor followed by Jing.
          Alternatively, a different methodology may be
10 utilised to determine nodes of high importance.            A  second
   embodiment uses an    'Mcount' method.       At step 816,    for
   every link between every pair of data records in a network
   DA and  DB, whether directly     connected or otherwise,      the
   number of data records D 1 are counted in        all  paths between
15 DA and  DB, where the degree     of separation    for these paths
   is one degree, two degrees, N degrees etc.           There is a
   sign of value to the count C2,        C3,  CN respectively.      At
   818,  a multiplier is assigned to each direct link-each one
   degree link each 2 degree link, etc, namely Ni,           N2, ... NN.
20 At step 820,  for each direct citation link, the C2 value
   is multiplied by N2, the C3 value by N3 and so on;            and
   finally the multiples are added together along with the N1
   value to provide a Mcount for each citation link.             At step
   822,  a minimum value of Mcount is selected.          At step 824,
25 all direct citation links where the Mcount value is less
   than McountMIN are removed.       At step 826, all data records
   that are not  connected to the network after the links are
   removed are also removed.       Optionally, it may be possible
   to experiment with different values N1 and N2           (see step
30 828)  to determine the affect of these different values on
   the final structure of the network.
          With reference to Figure 12 and Tables 5,          6 and 7, it
   can be seen that if we take a similar example to the last

                                   - 28
   example   (i.e. mentoring in a workplace),     Figure 11    shows
   that between Jim and Catherine there is one degree of
   separation, but each of Jim and Catherine also have
   relationships of two degrees of separation and one three
 5 degrees of    separation relationship.   Hence the
   relationship between Jim and Catherine has the Mcount
   values  found in Table 5.
          The multiplier for each of the Mcount values         is
   decided   (as per Table      6)
10
                                   Table 5
             Count Contributor                     Value
                    C1                               1
                    C2                               2
                    C3                               1
                                   Table 6
                  Multiplier                       Value
                    N1                               1
                    N2                           0.5 (1/2)
                    N3                          0.33 (1/3)
15        Therefore, the final Mcount values are         shown in
   Table 7.
                                   Table 7
           Degree of Separation            M Count Contributor
                     1                            1*1 = 1
                     2                          2*0.5 = 1
                     3                        1*0.33 = 0.33
            Final MCount Value                     2.33
20        In the example, if the minimum Mcount value

                               - 29
   (McountMIN) is set as being 2,  then the only relationship
   that has a higher value than McountMIN   is the relationship
   between Jim and Catherine at an N count value of 2.33, so
   this relationship is retained but all other relationships
 5 are culled.
         Utilising this methodology, it becomes much easier to
   focus on data records of high importance, and remove data
   records that, may be only peripheral to a particular
   subject area.
10       Although not required, the embodiments described with
   reference to the Figures can be implemented as an
   Application Programming Interface    (API) or as a series of
   libraries for use by a developer or can be included within
   another software application, such as a terminal or
15 personal computer operating system or a portable computing
   device operating system.   Generally, as program modules
   include routines, programs, objects, components and data
   files assisting in the performance of particular
   functions, the skilled person will understand that the
20 functionality of the software application may be
   distributed across a number of routines, objects or
   components to achieve the same functionality desired
   herein.
          It will also be appreciated that where the methods
25 and systems of the present invention are either wholly
   implemented by computing system or partly implemented by
   computing systems then any appropriate computing system
   architecture may be utilised.    This will include stand
   alone computers, network computers and dedicated hardware
30 devices.   Where the terms "computing system" and
   "computing device" are used, these terms are intended to
   cover any appropriate arrangement of computer hardware
   capable of implementing the function described.

                              - 30
         It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art
   that numerous variations and/or modifications may be made
   to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
   without departing from the spirit or scope of the
 5 invention as broadly described.   The present embodiments
   are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
         Any reference to prior art contained herein is not to
   be taken as an admission that the information is common
10 general knowledge, unless otherwise indicated.

                               - 31
   CLAIMS:
   1.    A computer-implemented method of automated
   preparation of a set of data for analysis, the method
 5 comprising the steps of:
          (a) retrieving from non-volatile memory or via a
   communication network a mapping input data set including a
   plurality of records, each of the plurality of records
   including an identifier attribute value and at least one
10 associative attribute value, the identifier attribute
   value being an identifier for the record and each
   associative attribute value being an identifier of another
   record;
          (b) forming one or more networks from records of the
15 mapping input data set by:
              (c) determining a plurality of direct
         connections, each one direct connection linking one
         record of the plurality of data records of the
         mapping input data set to another one record of the
20       mapping input data set as a pair of data records,
         where the identifier attribute value of one record of
         the pair is the same as an associative attribute
         value of the other record of the pair;  and
              (d) determining a set of records for each of the
25       one or more networks based on the direct connections,
         where each record of the network forms a pair via a
         direct connection with at least one other record in
         the network, the network being confined to records
         within the mapping input data set;
30 and
          (e) processing at least one of the one or more
   networks for further analysis or display.

                               -   32
   2.    A method in accordance with claim 1, further
   comprising preparing the mapping data set by performing
   the steps of:
          (f) retrieving from non-volatile memory or via a
 5 communication network an initial input data set including
   one or more records, each of the records including an
   identifier attribute value and at least one associative
   attribute value, the identifier attribute value being an
   identifier for the record and each associative attribute
10 value being an identifier of another record;
          (g) identifying one or more further records to
   retrieve by comparing each associative attribute value
   from each of the records in the input data set with the
   identifier attribute values of each of the records in the
15 input data set, to determine any associative attribute
   values not matching any one of the identifier attributes
   values of records in the input data set, the associative
   attribute values not matching any one of the identifier
   attributes being identifier attributes of the one or more
20 further records to retrieve;
          (h) retrieving from non-volatile memory or via a
   communication network the identified further records to
   retrieve;
          (i) associating the retrieved one or more further
25 records with the initial data set to update the input data
   set; and
          (j) providing the updated initial data set as the
   mapping input data set.
30 3.    A method in accordance with claim 2,    further
   comprising repeating steps    (g) to (i) until an end
   criteria is satisfied.

                                - 33
   4.    A method in accordance with claim 2 or 3, wherein the
   initial input data set is retrieved in accordance with a
   search query arranged to extract the initial input data
   set from a database of data records.
 5
   5.    A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the plurality of data records includes any
   one or more of: information regarding patents, information
   regarding registered trade marks and information regarding
10 scientific publications and for each record the identifier
   attribute value is any one of a serial number, an
   application number or a publication number, used to
   identify the document associated with the record.
15 6.    A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein for each
   record each associative attribute value of the at least
   one associative attribute values is an identifier
   attribute value of a citation whereby the associative
   attributes for a record provide a list of citations for
20 the record.
   7.    A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein step   (e) comprises for at least one
   network the steps of:
25        (k) identifying at least one pair of data records in
   the network having a direct connection and, for each
   selected pair of data records;
          (1) identifying any one or more indirect connections
   linking the pair of data records via one or more
30 intermediate records, each indirect connection consisting
   of x direct connections forming an x degree of separation
   link between the pair of data records, where x is a
   variable number between 2 and a maximum value n, and the

                                -  34
   value of x may be different    for each indirect connection.
   8.     A method in accordance with claim 7, wherein step    (e)
   further comprises the steps of:
 5         (m)  counting the number of indirect connections
   identified for each pair of records to derive a total
   count  for the links between the data records of the pair;
           (o) setting a threshold level for the total count
   value between each pair of data records;
10         (p) removing a direct link of any pair of data
   records having a total count value below the set threshold
   level;   and
           (q) removing all data records that then no longer
   have a direct connection to any other record in the
15 network from the reduced set for the network.
   9.     A method in accordance with claim 7, wherein step    (e)
   further comprises the steps of:
           (r) counting the number of instances of indirect
20 links  for each of degree of separation value x to derive a
   separation value for each of the degrees of separation for
   the pair of data records;
           (s) multiplying each respective separation value with
   a multiplier assigned for the degree of separation to
25 derive a count value   for each degree of separation;  and
           (t) summing the count value for each degree of
   separation to derive a total count value.
   10.    A method in accordance with claim 8, wherein the
30 maximum value of n equals 2.
   11.    A method in accordance with claim 8, wherein the
   threshold level for the total count value between each

                                - 35
   pair of data records is set based on a user selection.
   12.   A method in accordance with claim 7, further
   comprising the steps of
 5       ascribing a size value to each of the one or more
   networks, the size value being based on the number of data
   records in the reduced set for the network, and
         selecting one or more networks     for further analysis
   or display based on size value, wherein the selection is
10 based on any one of:
         a largest   size value;
         a set   size value threshold;  and
         a size value ratio value as a function of a largest
   size value.
15
   13.   A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims,  further comprising the step of
         ranking the one or more networks wherein ranking is
   based on any one or more of:
20       a subject matter value determined for at least one of
   the one or more networks based on one or more     subject
   matter attribute values for each of the records in the
   network;  and
         user input regarding one or more subject matter
25 attribute values,
   wherein subject matter attribute values include any one or
   more of:
         number of times one or more key words appear;
         number of forward citations;
30       number of family members;    and
         international patent classification     (IPC) code.
   14.   A method in accordance with any one of the preceding

                                 - 36
   claims, wherein step    (e) comprises displaying at least one
   of the one or more networks of data records utilising a
   visualisation methodology.
 5 15.   A method in accordance with claim 14,    wherein at
   least one of the one or more networks is displayed as a
   map of interconnected nodes, each record being represented
   as a node and in response to a user selecting a node
   record data for the node is displayed.
10
   16.   A method in accordance with any one of claims 1 to
   13, wherein step   (e) comprises constructing and outputting
   a related list of documents for one or more of the data
   networks.
15
   17.   A method in accordance with claim 16 wherein the
   related list is a ranked list.
   18.   A system for the automated preparation of a set of
20 data for analysis comprising:
         a processor;   and
         a storage device;
   the processor including:
         a retrieving module configured to retrieve, from non
25 volatile memory or via a communication network, and store
   on the storage device a mapping input data set including a
   plurality of records, each of the plurality of records
   including an identifier attribute value and at least one
   associative attribute value, the identifier attribute
30 value being an identifier for the record and each
   associative attribute value being an identifier of another
   record; and
         a linking module configured to form one or more

                               - 37
   networks from records of the mapping input data set by:
             determining a plurality of direct connections,
         each one direct connection linking one record of the
         plurality of data records of the mapping input data
 5       set to another one record of the mapping input data
         set as a pair of data records, where the identifier
         attribute value of one record of the pair is the same
         as an associative attribute value of the other record
         of the pair;
10           determining a set of records for each of the one
         or more networks based on the direct connections,
         where each record of the network forms a pair via a
         direct connection with at least one other record in
         the network;  and
15           storing the at least one or more networks on the
         storage means  for retrieval for further analysis or
         display.
   19.   A system according to claim 18,  the processor further
20 including an association module configured to, prepare the
   mapping input data set by, in response to one or more
   records being retrieved and stored as an input data set,
   identify one or more  further records to retrieve by
   comparing each associative attribute value from each of
25 the data records in the input data set with the identifier
   attribute value of each of the records in the input data
   set, to determine any associative attribute values not
   matching any one of the identifier attributes values of
   records in the input data set, the associative attribute
30 values not matching any one of the identifier attributes
   being identifier attributes of the one or more further
   records to retrieve;
         the retrieval module being further arranged to

                              - 38
   retrieve from non-volatile memory or via a communication
   network and store in the storage device the identified
   further records to retrieve; and
         the association module being further arranged to
 5 associate the retrieved one or more further records with
   the initial data set to form the mapping input data set
   and store the mapping input data set in the storage
   device.
10 20.   A system according to claim 18 or 19, the linking
   module being further configured to, in response to the one
   or more networks being formed, for at least one network:
         identify at least one pair of data records in the
   network having a direct connection and, for each selected
15 pair of data records; and
         identify any one or more indirect connections linking
   the pair of data records via one or more intermediate
   records, each indirect connection consisting of x direct
   connections forming an x degree of separation link between
20 the pair of data records, where x is a variable number
   between 2 and a maximum value n, and the value of x may be
   different for each indirect connection.
   21.   A system according to claim 20, the processor further
25 including a reduction module configured to, in response to
   the linking module identifying indirect connections for a
   network:
         count the number of indirect connections identified
   for each pair of records to derive a total count for the
30 links between the data records of the pair;
         set a threshold level for the total count value
   between each pair of data records;
         remove a direct link of any pair of data records

                              - 39
   having a total count value below the threshold level;  and
         remove all data records that then no longer have a
   direct connection to any other record in the network, to
   reduce the number of data records in the set of records
 5 for the network.
   22.   A system in accordance with claim 21, wherein the
   maximum value of n equals 2.
10 23.   A system in accordance with any one of claims 18 to
   22, the processor further including a ranking module
   configured to rank the one or more records of a network.
   24.   A system in accordance with any one of claims 18 to
15 23, further comprising:
         a display; and
         the processor further including a visualisation
   module configured to control display on the display of at
   least one of the one or more selected networks of data
20 records utilising a visualisation methodology.

                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    112
 104         106
 110         108
                                              114
       102
                              202
                                                           1/11
120
                                     100
                   Figure 1

                                        <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
202    Design search
           query                               200
      Execute search
           Retrieve
           forward
204        citations
           Retrieve                                                     2/11
          backward                        END            212
           citations
    Compare citations                Get forward/rear
206   and identify                     citations for
    additional records      210     additional records
                         Figure 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      3/11
Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      4/11
Figure 4

                                                             <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
            Download data
      502
               records
                                                                500
            Link records to
      504
             form network
            Remove isolated
      506
             data records
                                                                                            5/11
             Count size of
      508
               network
                                Set minimum         Select clusters of       Only select
             Select largest     network size;        interest; remove      clusters which
510
             network only     remove networks       all clusters of non-   have relevant
                               below minimum               interest           keywords
                510a              510b                    510c                 510d
                                         Figure 5

                         <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
Childrens authors
                      Adults authors
              A
                            G
              C                                          6/11
   B                                   I
                        H
  D               E
                            Figure 7
          F
   Figure 6

                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
802   Select data records
    Choose methodology                Count number of links 816
804 to reduce number of
        data records
                                       Assign multiplier to
                                            each link           818
806   Count citation links                                                 800
                                      Multiply link number
                                      of links and multiplier
                                                                820
                                                                                    7/11
                               828
808    Minimum desired                  Select minimum
        value selected                   desired value
                                                                822
        All citations not               Remove all links
810       linked within      814        below minimum           824
      minimum are deleted                    value
                                       Remove all isolated
      All isolated records                                      826
812                                         links
             deleted
                                     Figure 8

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         Jing
      Sarah                                     8/11
Jim              Catherine
      Figure 9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       9/11
Figure 10

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       10/11
Figure 11

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            Jing
         Sarah
Jim                 Catherine                      11/11
  Bob               Eliza
        Figure 12

