    P1367AUAU
   ABSTRACT
   A swimming pool pump 1 to suit a first aquatic application S1 and a second aquatic
   application S2. The second aquatic application is at least twice as restrictive as the
   first aquatic application. The pump includes an impeller 10, a housing 20 housing
 5 the impeller, an electric motor 30 to mechanically drive the impeller, and a control
   arrangement 40 to receive a mains supply and electrically drive the electric motor.
   The control arrangement is configured to supply a first electrical drive and a
   second electrical drive. The first electrical drive is to drive the pump to a first
   operating point OP1, at which a first-point flow rate is delivered, to suit the first
10 aquatic application whilst the electric motor turns at a first speed, the electric motor
   draws a first current, and the pump operates at a first electromechanical efficiency.
   The second electrical drive is to drive the pump to a second operating point, at
   which a second-point flow rate is delivered, to suit the second aquatic application
   whilst the electric motor turns at a second speed, the electric motor draws a
15 second current, and the pump operates at a second electromechanical efficiency.
   The mains supply has a voltage and a frequency. The first electrical drive has a
   voltage and a frequency. The second electrical drive has a voltage and a
   frequency. The second-point flow rate is within 20% of the first-point flow rate. The
   impeller, housing, electric motor and control arrangement are configured such that
20 the first electromechanical efficiency is higher than the second electromechanical
   efficiency.

   P1 367AUAU
                                                   1
                                    A SWIMMING POOL PUMP
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The invention relates to swimming pool pumps.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
 5 Swimming pool pumps are centrifugal pumps powered by electric motors. Decades
   ago a typical swimming pool pump was required to merely move fluid through a
   suitable filter, such as through a sand filter. As such single speed two pole induction
   motors became the norm.
   To select a pump a swimming pool installer would settle on a flow rate and filter size
10 necessary to service the pool. The flow rate was typically determined based on a
   desired number of turnovers. The filter was then sized based on desired flow
   velocities within the filter. From this filter selection the system curve of the filtration
   system (including the filter and the plumbing to take water to and from the pool) could
   be estimated. In Figure 1 a system curve for such a filter is illustrated as the curve Si.
15 The installer would then turn to pump manufacturer's catalogues that would typically
   include sets of curves such as the curves 1 hp, 1.5 hp and 2 hp setting out the
   performance characteristics (pump curves) for a particular range of pumps. The
   pumps were typically referred to by the horsepower rating of their electric motors but
   were also typically distinguished by the configuration of their impellers and impeller
20 housings. Through conventional design processes the hydrodynamic components
   (impeller and housing) and the electric motor were co-operably configured to operate
   efficiently along system curves similar to the curve Si. Typically this entailed the
   motor operating at about 5% slip from its synchronous speed.
   Australia has a 50 Hz mains supply and as such synchronous speed is 3000 rpm and
25 5% slip therefrom is about 2850 rpm. In the United States of America the mains
   supply has a frequency of 60 Hz and as such the synchronous speed is 3600 rpm
   and 5% slip therefrom is about 3400 rpm.

    P1367AUAU
                                               2
   Faced with the estimate of the system curve, a desired flow rate, say 420 L/min and
   the illustrated pump curves the installer would then calculate that the two-horsepower
   pump operating at the design point DP (i.e. the intersection of the curve S1 and the
   curve 2 hp) would be suitable.
 5 The speed of a typical induction motor depends on the load on the motor which in
   turn, in this context, depends on the flow rate through the pump. Australian pumps
   were typically optimised for operation at about 2850 rpm at the design point. When
   faced with pressures higher than the design point (corresponding to the lower flow
   and to the left of the design point DP) the pump would speed up to approach
10 synchronous speed (3000 rpm in Australia). When faced with lower pressures
   (corresponding to higher flows and to the right of the design point DP), the pump
   would slow down.
   As time progressed, typical home swimming pools became more elaborate and
   pumps were required to do more than merely move water through a filter. Pumps
15 became expected to service other aquatic applications such as operating spa jets
   and/or floor cleaning jets that could be user-selected to operate from time to time.
   Such aquatic applications typically require a similar flow rate as the routine filtration
   cycle but require the water to be delivered at much higher pressure. Thus pumps
   were required to work harder when these secondary applications were selected.
20 With the advent of such secondary aquatic applications, a different pump selection
   logic became the norm. That newer logic is illustrated in Figure 1. To enable us to re
   use the same chart, the following discussion relates to a smaller hypothetical pool
   requiring about 270 L/min to achieve the desired number of turnovers.
   According to this new logic, the starting point is the system curve  S2 for the
25 secondary aquatic application. Following this logic, the installer would again select
   the two-horsepower pump even in the context of the smaller pool. Of the three pumps
   only the two-horsepower pump is capable of reaching the operating point OP2 at
   which the pump supplies the jets with the necessary 270 L/min and 18 m, H20 of
   pressure.

    P1367AUAU
                                                 3
   With the pump so selected, the installer would then take an estimate of the system
   curve S1 for the sand filter to calculate the flow to which the sand filter will be
   exposed. Typically a few sand filters will be considered to arrive at one that could be
   safely exposed to that flow rate.
 5 Sand filters entail a large barrel of sand through which water is upwardly driven. The
   sand per se should remain essentially stationary and the water should work its way
   around the sand. If exposed to too high a flow rate, the sand becomes agitated and
   in turn the filtering performance is dramatically reduced and in the longer term the
   sand is rounded off and damaged. Selecting a flow rate to protect the sand filter as
10 the wording and similar wording is used herein refers to selecting a flow rate to avoid
   this undesirable agitation.
   Following this new logic much larger sand filters than were necessary to filter the pool
   were selected. Sand filters are typically characterised by the diameter of their barrel.
   With the advent of the spa jets (and other secondary aquatic applications) not only
15 were much larger pumps required but so were larger sand filters, e.g. often a 036"
   filter would be used where years before a 024" sand filter would have been used.
   For a while, many pools were operated with the much larger pump operating at the
   design point DP and delivering large flow rates (420 L/min in this case) resulting in
   pumps consuming vastly more power than was required for adequate filtration.
20 In recognition of this excessive power consumption multi-speed pumps became more
   common.
   Multi-speed pumps included additional windings that enabled the pump to operate at
   higher rates of slip to deliver lower flow rates. In Figure 1 a potential low speed
   setting for the two-horsepower pump is illustrated as the dotted line 2 hpL. When
25 switching from its high speed mode to its low speed mode the pump 2 hp slips from
   the design point DP down to an operating point OP1 at which it is delivering only the
   necessary 270 L/min.

    P1367AUAU
                                                  4
   In this context "speed" is of course a misnomer. Along the curve 2 hpL the motor
   would operate at shaft-speeds approaching synchronous speed (at zero flow) and
   falling to about 1500 rpm at the operating point OP1.
   More recently, ranges of variable speed swimming pool pumps have hit the market.
 5 Early examples were triac controlled. Triac control entails a control arrangement
   (known as a triac) sitting between the mains supply and the electric motor. The triac
   simply drops outs a selected proportion of the voltage cycles whereby the voltage
   and frequencies supplied to the motor remains unchanged but the duty cycle of the
   electric drive reaching the motor is varied. This approach created a pump that was
10 infinitely adjustable relative to the older discrete speed windings of the multi-speed
   motors.
   Other forms of variable speed pump are known as Inverter Driven, such as Three
   Phase Inverter Driven, and Brushless DC. According to some variants the voltage
   delivered to the motor is maintained without changing the duty cycle and it is the
15 frequency of the electrical drive that is varied to vary the performance of the pump.
   Following this approach a variable speed two-horsepower pump could be slowed to
   the operating point OP1 by reducing the frequency supplied to the motor. Thus
   relative to a multi-speed pump, at the operating point OP1 such variable speed
   pumps have less slip and in turn higher efficiency from their electric motors.
20 The current pump-selection process is similar to the process in respect of multi
   speed pumps:
        *  typically a pool installer will be presented with a set of curves similar to the
            curves 1 hp, 1.5 hp and 2 hp corresponding to the performance of the pump at
            2850 rpm (in Australia; 3400 rpm in the United States);
25      e  the pump would be selected based on the necessary flow rate and an estimate
            of the system curve  S2;  and
        *  then based on the selected pump curve, a suitable sand filter would be
            selected to safely operate at the design point DP.

    P1367AUAU
                                                5
   In normal operation the pump might be slowed to the operating point OP1.
   Preferred forms of the invention aim to provide a pump which is of lower cost to
   produce and/or to operate, or at least to provide an alternative for those concerned
   with swimming pool pumps.
 5 SUMMARY
   The present inventors have recognised that by departing from the foregoing design
   principles (that are well established in their industry), significant efficiencies can be
   gained. More specifically, the present inventors have recognised that the design of
   hydrodynamic components has changed little over the years. Indeed many modern
10 variable speed pumps incorporate hydrodynamic components substantially identical
   to their single speed ancestors. As such, these hydrodynamic components are
   optimized for operation at the design point DP and are therefore less efficient than
   they could be at the operating point OP1 at which the pump is operated more
   commonly. Accordingly by modifying the hydrodynamic components to optimize their
15 performance at the design point OP1 significant efficiencies can be realised. Indeed a
   preferred form of the present invention would conventionally be rated as a 2.0
   horsepower pump (based on the amount of active material in its motor, etc) but can
   be used where a 2.5, or even 3.0, horsepower pump would conventionally be
   specified.
20 Further to these efficiencies in hydrodynamic performance, the present inventors
   have developed a range of improvements in motor control strategies which are
   particularly advantageous in the context of this pump but also may be
   advantageously applied to other pumps.
   One aspect of the invention provides a swimming pool pump to suit a first aquatic
25 application and a second aquatic application;
   the second aquatic application being at least twice as restrictive as the first aquatic
   application;

    P1367AUAU
                                                   6
   the pump including
          an impeller;
          a housing housing the impellor;
          an electric motor to mechanically drive the impeller; and
 5        a control arrangement to electrically drive the electric motor;
   the control arrangement being configured to supply
          a first electrical drive to drive the pump to a first operating point, at which a first
          point flow rate is delivered, to suit the first aquatic application whilst the electric
          motor turns at a first speed, the electric motor draws a first current, and the
10        pump operates at a first electromechanical efficiency; and
          a second electrical drive to drive the pump to a second operating point, at which
          a second-point flow rate is delivered, to suit the second aquatic application
         whilst the electric motor turns at a second speed, the electric motor draws a
          second current, and the pump operates at a second electromechanical
15        efficiency;
   the second-point flow rate being within 20% of the first-point flow rate;
   the impeller, housing, electric motor and control arrangement being configured such
   that the first electromechanical efficiency is higher than the second electromechanical
   efficiency.
20 Aquatic applications typically impose a parabolic system curve having the form P =
   Q2 where P represents pressure and Q represents flow. As the wording is used
   herein, an aquatic application having a system curve of P = 2Q 2 is twice as restrictive
   as an application having the system curve P = Q 2.
   The second-point flow rate is preferably within 10% of the first-point flow rate.

    P1367AUAU
                                                7
   The control arrangement may be configured to operate in accordance with a
   schedule more of which is occupied by operation at the first operating point than by
   operation at the second operating point.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a swimming pool pump to suit a first aquatic
 5 application and a second aquatic application;
   the second aquatic application being at least twice as restrictive as the first aquatic
   application;
   the pump including
         an impeller;
10       a housing housing the impellor;
         an electric motor to mechanically drive the impeller; and
         a control arrangement to electrically drive the electric motor;
   the impeller, housing and electric motor being electromechanically capable of
   receiving a design-point electrical drive to reach a design operating point for the first
15 aquatic application whilst the electric motor turns at a design-point speed and the
   electric motor draws a design-point current;
   the control arrangement being configured to supply a second electrical drive to drive
   the pump to a second operating point, at which a second-point flow rate is delivered,
   to suit the second aquatic application whilst the electric motor turns at a second
20 speed and the electric motor draws a second current;
   the second electrical drive being harder than the design-point electrical drive such
   that the second-point speed is at least 10% higher than the design-point speed and
   the second-point current is not less than 90% of the design-point current.

    P1367AUAU
                                                 8
   Preferably the design-point speed is within 6% of 2850 rpm. A design-point speed
   within 6% of 3400 rpm may also be convenient, e.g. to suit the US market.
   Preferably the impeller, housing and electric motor are electromechanically capable
   of operating at the design operating point more efficiently than at the second
 5 operating point. The second current may be higher than the design-point current.
   Preferably the second-point speed is at least 20% higher than the design-point
   speed.
   The control arrangement preferably has
   a selectable-mode for the first aquatic application and
10 another selectable-mode for the second aquatic application.
   The first aquatic application may be sand filtration. The second aquatic application
   may be jetting. The second aquatic application may be at least five times as
   restrictive as the first aquatic application.
   The control arrangement is preferably configured to, over at least some of the
15 operating range of the pump, limit the electrical drive to limit a flow rate of the pump
   to a flow rate limit. Preferably the flow rate limit is not more than 125% of the first
   point flow rate.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a swimming pool pump including
   an impeller;
20 a housing housing the impellor;
   an electric motor to mechanically drive the impeller; and
   a control arrangement to electrically drive the electric motor;

    P1367AUAU
                                                  9
   wherein the control arrangement is configured to, over at least some of the operating
   range of the pump, limit the electrical drive to limit a flow rate of the pump to a flow
   rate limit.
   The control arrangement may be configured to so limit the electrical drive based on
 5 feedback from the electric motor. The flow rate limit may be selected to protect a
   sand filter.
   The control arrangement is preferably configured to, over at least some of an
   operating range of the pump, vary the electrical drive to achieve a desired parameter
   of the electric motor.
10 Another aspect of the invention provides a swimming pool pump including
   an impeller;
   an electric motor to mechanically drive the impeller; and
   a control arrangement configured to
          supply an electrical drive to the electric motor;
15        monitor the electrical-parameter of the electric motor; and
          over at least some of an operating range of the pump, vary the electrical drive to
          achieve a desired value for the electrical-parameter of the electric motor.
   The desired electrical-parameter may be current draw. Preferably the desired
   electrical-parameter is selected to protect the electric-motor from overloading.
20 The control arrangement is preferably configured to, over at least some of an
   operating range of the pump, vary the electrical drive to limit a speed of the pump to
   a speed limit. Preferably the speed limit is not more than 3650 rpm.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a swimming pool pump including

    P1367AUAU
                                                 10
   an impeller;
   an electric motor to mechanically drive the impeller; and
   a control arrangement configured to upon activation of the pump
          supply an electrical drive to the electric motor;
 5        monitor a parameter of the electric motor; and
          upon the parameter of the electric motor crossing a threshold reduce the
          electrical drive.
   The desired parameter may be current draw.
   The control arrangement is preferably configured to upon activation of the pump drive
10 the pump to a priming speed. The priming speed is preferably at least 3200 rpm, or
   more preferably at least 3500 rpm.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a filtration system including a pump and a
   sand filter.
   Another aspect of the invention provides a method of moving water of a swimming
15 pool including utilising a pump whilst the pump is fluidly connected to the pool. The
   method preferably includes operating the pump at the second operating point. Most
   preferably the method includes operating the pump at the first operating point for one
   or more first-point periods; and operating the pump at the second operating point for
   one or more second-point periods; wherein over a 24 hour period a summation of the
20 first-point periods is greater than a summation of the second-point periods.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   Figure 1 charts pump and system curves for conventional swimming pool equipment;
   Figure 2 charts pump and system curves in accordance with a preferred form of the
   invention;

   P1367AUAU
                                               11
   Figure 3 schematically illustrates a pump;
   Figure 4 is a side view of a conventional impeller;
   Figure 5 is a cross-section view corresponding to the line A-A in Figure 4;
   Figure 6 is a front view of an improved impeller;
 5 Figure 7 is a cross-section view corresponding to the line F-F in Figure 6;
   Figure 8 is a side view of a pump;
   Figure 9 is a cross-section view corresponding to the line E-E in Figure 8;
   Figure 10 is a rear view an outer housing;
   Figure 11 is cross-section view corresponding to the line D-D in Figure 10;
10 Figure 12 is a rear view of a diffuser; and
   Figure 13 is a cross-section view corresponding to the line C-C in Figure 12.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Figure 3 shows a pump 1 according to a preferred form of the invention, which pump
   incorporates an impeller 10, a housing 20, an electric motor 30 and a control
15 arrangement 40.
   The housing 20 houses the impeller 10 and is sometimes referred to as a volute. The
   electric motor 30 mechanically drives the impeller 10. The control arrangement 40
   receives power from a mains supply MS and electrically drives the electric motor 30.
   In this example the motor 30 is a 220V three phase induction motor and the controller
20 40 is an inverter configured to take Australia's single phase 240 V, 50 Hz supply and
   supply the motor with three phase 240 V over a wide range of frequencies. The motor
   30 has a nominal input rating of 1800 watts and has power factor correction which

    P1367AUAU
                                                  12
   enables sufficient performance to be achieved without drawing more than 8 amps. A
   1 hp (1070 watts nominal input, PFC) version is also contemplated. The housing 20
   includes an inlet 21 and an outlet 22. Rotating impeller 10 drives fluid from the inlet to
   the outlet.
 5 Figures 4 and 5 illustrate the impeller 10' of a conventional 2.0 horsepower pump.
   Figures 6 and 7 illustrate an impeller 10 of a pump in accordance with a preferred
   embodiment of the invention. The impeller 10 includes an inlet 1Oa into which water
   is axially drawn and a circumferential outlet 1Ob through which the water is radially
   expelled from the impeller. At the rear of the impeller 10 is a shaft receiving socket
10 1Oc for receiving the shaft of the electric motor 30. The impeller is mechanically
   driven by this coupling arrangement. Other coupling arrangements are possible.
   The impeller has been optimised to suit operation at the point OP1 rather than at the
   point DP or the point OP2. Principally this entails (relative to the impeller 10') reducing
   the diameter of the impeller whilst at the same time increasing its length. Optimising
15 the design of an impeller to a desired operating point is well within the ordinary skill of
   one in the art. It entails trial and error with a variety of impellers and/or may entail
   computational fluid dynamics. In this example the diameter of the impeller (dimension
   B in Figure 6) has been reduced from 128.8 mm to 120 mm whilst the axial length of
   the outlet (dimension A in Figure 7) has grown from 9.8 mm to 15.5 mm.
20 Turning to Figure 8 to 13, the housing 20 is a two-part housing incorporating an outer
   housing 21 and a diffuser 23. The outer housing 21 defines a filter-inlet 25, a filter
   basket cavity 26, a volute inlet 27 and an outlet 29. As suggested by the arrows A, B,
   C water flows in sequence through the inlet 25, filter basket cavity 26, inlet 27 and
   outlet 29.
25 The diffuser 23 is mounted along the fluid path from the inlet 27 to the outlet 29.
   Diffuser 23 includes a conical inlet 23a and an arrangement of stator blades 23b. The
   inlet 23a sits in register with, to receive water from, the inlet 27. The stator blades
   circumferentially surround the impeller 10.

    P1367AUAU
                                                13
   Figure 2 illustrates the performance of a pump in accordance with a preferred form of
   the invention. The curve 2.0 hp illustrates the performance of the pump in its
   preferred configuration. The curve 2.0 hp' illustrates the performance of the pump
   when its motor is supplied with a 50 Hz supply in line with conventional thinking.
 5 In this example, the operating point OP1 corresponds to 1121 rpm, 150 L/min, 2.5 m,
   H20 and about 0.94 amp. This impeller design corresponds to a conventional design
   point DP of 2850 rpm, 380 L/min, 14 m, H20 and about 8 amp when driving fluid
   through the sand filter Si.
   The system curve    S2  corresponds to cleaning jets that are about 10 times as
10 restrictive as the sand filter S1 and require 20 m, H20 pressure. It will be observed
   from the curve 2.0 hp' that when operated conventionally, the pump cannot reach the
   operating point OP2 on the curve     S2. Indeed the inventors' modifications to the
   impeller reduce performance along the curve      S2. When operating at about 2850 rpm
   in accordance with conventional thinking, the pump 1 when delivering 150 L/min
15 would be operating at the operating point OP2' whereat it delivers only 17 m, H20,
   well short of the necessary 20 m, H20. According to conventional thinking, this is
   cause to select a larger pump, however the present inventors have recognised that at
   the point OP2' the motor is not working as hard as it might as indicated by its reduced
   current draw relative to the design point DP.
20 Accordingly the inventors propose to work the electric motor harder by increasing the
   frequency of the drive signal from the controller 40. In other variants of the invention
   the motor 30 might be driven harder by increasing the voltage supplied to it and/or by
   increasing the duty cycle of the drive signal. By speeding the pump beyond the
   conventional 2850 rpm to about 3550 rpm the desired operating point OP2 (for spa
25 jets and/or cleaning jets, etc) can be reached. At that operating point the pump is
   delivery about 150 L/min at about 22 m, H20 and drawing about 7 amp.
   Of course it is not essential that the flow rate at OP1 and OP2 be identical although in
   practice similar flow rates within about 20% of each other, or more preferably within
   about 10% of each other, are desirable.

    P1367AUAU
                                               14
   Relative to the conventional 50 Hz approach illustrated by the line 1.5 hp', the
   present arrangement can be thought of as an over-speed mode in which a small
   pump is used where a larger pump would conventionally be selected. This comes
   from the inventors' recognition of the "head space" afforded by the drop off in current
 5 that would usually be observed when switching from the first aquatic application S1 to
   the second aquatic application  S2  at 2850 rpm (i.e. moving from the design point DP
   to the operating point OP 2 ").
   According to a preferred form of the invention the control arrangement has a
   respective mode for each application which mode is selectable by a user and/or by a
10 scheduling mechanism. By way of example, the control arrangement might
   incorporate a scheduling system by which the pool is filtering along the curve S1 for
   most of the day and then periodically the pump turns to operating floor jets to clean
   the floor of the pool and upon so turning to that application selects the over-speed
   mode.
15 In a preferred implementation of the over-speed mode the control arrangement
   maximises the drive frequency within a range limited by (a) 60 Hz corresponding to
   3600 rpm; and (b) a current draw of 8 amps.
   3600 rpm is selected to protect bearings of the motor. This is a convenient figure
   since it corresponds to the speed of conventional pumps in the US market and
20 therefore there are many cost-effective bearings that can be used with confidence. Of
   course other speed limits might be applied whether to protect the bearings or for
   another purpose such as to prevent cavitation. Preferably a minimum drive is also
   imposed. In this example the minimum drive frequency is 10 Hz.
   In our discussion of the over-speed mode thus far we have focused on current. Of
25 course, the disclosed principle is readily generalised to other parameters of the
   electric motor such as power draw.
   Furthermore, the present inventors have recognised that the over-speed mode may
   be advantageously applied to prime the pump. The skilled person would appreciate

    P1367AUAU
                                                15
   that moving to a smaller diameter impeller reduces a pump's ability to prime and this
   is another reason why a pump might not be optimised for the point OP1.
   Accordingly, preferred forms of the invention are configured to upon activation
   operate in the over-speed mode. Since pumps are typically not primed when they are
 5 first activated, this usually entails 10 seconds or so of operation at 60 Hz. In the
   unprimed state there is very little load on the impeller and as such the motor is likely
   to be very close to 3600 rpm. The present inventors have recognised that there is
   very little current draw at this point and that upon priming of the pump there is a rapid
   increase in the current draw. Accordingly preferred forms of the control arrangement
10 40 are configured to revert to a preset operating mode, e.g. revert to suit routine
   filtration, upon the current exceeding a predetermined threshold. Of course, there is
   likely to be some noise in the signal indicative of current and accordingly any
   reference to a current passing a threshold herein includes a time averaged (or
   otherwise smoothed) indication of the current passing a threshold. This smoothing
15 operation might entail a counter or the like.
   This method of priming detection may be implemented based as on other parameters
   of the motor such as input power.
   The present inventors have recognised that since the introduction of spa jets and the
   like the design point DP has become a largely theoretical point at which the pump
20 should spend little or no time operating. Nonetheless it is standard practice in the
   swimming pool industry to select a sand filter that can safely tolerate the design point
   flow rate and as such this results in dramatically larger sand filters being selected
   than is necessary to filter the pool.
   Accordingly, whilst it is convenient to think of the design point DP that the impeller
25 housing and motor are electromechanically capable of reaching, the control
   arrangement 40 of some variants may be configured to impose a flow rate limit FL to
   prevent the pump reaching that point. In this example the flow limit FL is 220 L/min.
   By imposing such a limit a smaller sand filter can be safely employed. The control
   arrangement may be configured to enable a user to select the flow limit, e.g. select

    P1367AUAU
                                                 16
   the flow limit to protect a filter. As such a method of protecting a filter is also
   disclosed.
   "Electromechanically capable" and similar wording as used herein is to be
   understood in its context. A person of skill in the art would have no difficulty
 5 assessing the electromechanical capability of a motor, impeller and housing
   combination. Even if a pump's control arrangement locked out the design point, the
   electromechanical capability could be assessed by bypassing that motor's control
   arrangement and energising the electric motor using standard testing equipment
   routinely used by those of skill in the art.
10 The invention is not limited to the described examples. Rather, the invention is
   defined by the claims.

    P1367AUAU
                                                  17
   CLAIMS
   1.    A swimming pool pump to suit a first aquatic application and a second aquatic
   application;
   the second aquatic application being at least twice as restrictive as the first aquatic
 5 application;
   the pump including
          an impeller;
          a housing housing the impellor;
          an electric motor to mechanically drive the impeller; and
10        a control arrangement to electrically drive the electric motor;
   the control arrangement being configured to supply
          a first electrical drive to drive the pump to a first operating point, at which a first
          point flow rate is delivered, to suit the first aquatic application whilst the electric
          motor turns at a first speed, the electric motor draws a first current, and the
15        pump operates at a first electromechanical efficiency; and
          a second electrical drive to drive the pump to a second operating point, at which
          a second-point flow rate is delivered, to suit the second aquatic application
         whilst the electric motor turns at a second speed, the electric motor draws a
          second current, and the pump operates at a second electromechanical
20        efficiency;
   the second-point flow rate being within 20% of the first-point flow rate;
   the impeller, housing, electric motor and control arrangement being configured such
   that the first electromechanical efficiency is higher than the second electromechanical
   efficiency.

    P1367AUAU
                                               18
   2.     The pump of claim 1 wherein the second-point flow rate is within 10% of the
   first-point flow rate.
   3.     The pump of claim 1 or 2 wherein the control arrangement is configured to
   operate in accordance with a schedule more of which is occupied by operation at the
 5 first operating point than by operation at the second operating point.
   4.     The pump of claim 3 wherein the impeller, housing and electric motor are
   electromechanically capable of receiving a design-point electrical drive to reach a
   design operating point for the first aquatic application whilst the electric motor turns at
   a design-point speed and the electric motor draws a design-point current;
10 the second electrical drive being harder than the design-point electrical drive such
   that the second-point speed is at least 10% higher than the design-point speed and
   the second-point current is not less than 90% of the design-point current.
   5.     The pump of claim 4 wherein the design-point speed is within 6% of 2850 rpm.
   6.     The pump of claim 4 or 5 wherein the impeller, housing and electric motor are
15 electromechanically capable of operating at the design operating point more
   efficiently than at the second operating point.
   7.     The pump of anyone of claims 3 to 6 wherein the second current is higher than
   the design-point current.
   8.     The pump of any one of claims 3 to 7 wherein the second-point speed is at least
20 20% higher than the design-point speed.
   9.     The pump of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein the control arrangement has
   a selectable-mode for the first aquatic application and
   another selectable-mode for the second aquatic application.

    P1367AUAU
                                                  19
   10.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the first aquatic application is
   sand filtration.
   11.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the second aquatic application
   is jetting.
 5 12.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 11 wherein the second aquatic application
   is at least five times as restrictive as the first aquatic application.
   13.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the control arrangement is
   configured to, over at least some of the operating range of the pump, limit the
   electrical drive to limit a flow rate of the pump to a flow rate limit.
10 14.    The pump of claim 13 wherein the flow rate limit is not more than 125% of the
   first-point flow rate.
   15.    The pump of claim 13 or 14 wherein the control arrangement is configured to so
   limit the electrical drive based on feedback from the electric motor.
   16.    The pump of any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the flow rate limit is selected to
15 protect a sand filter.
   17.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the control arrangement is
   configured to, over at least some of an operating range of the pump, vary the
   electrical drive to achieve a desired parameter of the electric motor.
   18.    The pump of claim 17 wherein the desired electrical-parameter is a desired
20 current draw.
   19.    The pump of claim 17 or 18 wherein the desired electrical-parameter is selected
   to protect the electric motor from overloading.
   20.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 19 wherein the control arrangement is
   configured to, over at least some of an operating range of the pump, vary the
25 electrical drive to limit a speed of the pump to a speed limit.

    P1367AUAU
                                                 20
   21.    The pump of claim 20 wherein the speed limit is not more than 3650 rpm.
   22.    The pump of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the control arrangement is
   configured to upon activation of the pump
          supply an electrical drive to the electric motor;
 5        monitor a parameter of the electric motor; and
   upon the parameter of the electric motor crossing a threshold reduce the electrical
   drive.
   23.    The pump of claim 22 wherein the parameter is current draw.
   24.    The pump of claim 22 or 23 wherein the control arrangement is configured to
10 upon activation of the pump drive the pump to a priming speed; and
   the priming speed is at least 3200 rpm.
   25.    The pump of claim 24 wherein the priming speed is at least 3500 rpm.
   26. A filtration system including the pump of claim 16 and the sand filter.
   27. A method of moving water of a swimming pool including utilising the pump of
15 any one of claims 1 to 25 whilst the pump is fluidly connected to the pool.
   28.    The method of claim 27 including operating the pump at the second operating
   point.
   29. A method of moving water of a swimming pool including
   utilising the pump of any one of claims 1 to 25 whilst the pump is fluidly connected to
20 the pool;
   operating the pump at the first operating point for one or more first-point periods; and

P1367AUAU
                                        21
operating the pump at the second operating for one or more second-point periods;
wherein over a 24 hour period a summation of the first-point periods is greater than a
summation of the second-point periods.

                                                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
    P
(m, H2O)
      30
                                         S2
                                              OP 2
      20                                             DP                                1/8
                                                              S1
      10
                                 2hpL          1hp    1-5hp        2hp
           0   100   200         300           400   500       600
                                                                           Q (L/min)
                           OP1
                                       Fig 1

                                                                           <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
Pressure (m, H 2O
 30
          2.0hp
                                 S2
 25
                                            OP2
                                                                            S1
 20
           2.0hp'               OP2 '
                                                                DP
 15
                                                                                               2/8
                            OP2 ''            FL
 10
  5
                                                  1.5hpL
  0
      0             100               200                 300        400     500        600
                          OP1
                                             Flow L/min
                                                  Fig 2

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        22
                                     1
MS                           21
                                           3/8
                        20
     40       30   10
          Fig 3

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
A
            10'                     10'
                                          4/8
A
    Fig 4         Fig 5

                               <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
        F   10               "A"
                                     10b
                                             10
                 "B"                       10c
                                                       5/8
                       10a
        F
                             Fig 7
Fig 6

                                    <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
     20
                                1           29
             E        40
                 29
                                                 IMPELLER 10
                                                 DIFFUSER 23
                                                 HOUSING 21
                                                          6/8
25
            E              30
                                    Fig 9
          Fig 8

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             C                            21
                 29
         D
                                               25
                                                    A
                          26
                               B                7/8
                                        27
     D
                 Fig 11
Fig 10

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         C   23b
                           23
                   23b
                                         23a
    23a
                                               8/8
         C
                         Fig 13
Fig 12

