                                              30
   ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to computer systems for estimating foreign filing costs,
   in particular, to a computer-implemented system for generating country-specific fees.
   The computer system is designed to receive an industrial property (IP) identifier,
 5 such as a patent number, generate IP statistics corresponding to the IP identifier,
   such as the number of words and pages in a patent specification, generate a set of
   selected countries and, for every selected country; identify a selected fee rule
   corresponding to that country and apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to
   calculate a country-specific fee. The computer system preferably performs these
10 steps in response to a single user action.

                               7/12
            c                         u
            E                     -5
                         -0
              i       0                     c
                   C                            >
   c                  4a                           0
                                        5
                                   cua  s
                            LA     .
C                                  a    -2  c
       >-       as  .                    0
                   co                   b-  C1 C
                   Li                 c
  (U-0:
                                               to
          -                             tdi     a.

                                                  1
   TITLE: COMPUTER SYSTEM FOR CALCULATING COUNTRY-SPECIFIC
   FEES
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to a computer system for calculating country
 5 specific fees.
           The invention has been developed specifically for calculating the foreign filing
   costs for industrial property matters where the filing of multiple applications or other
   submissions are required, and will be described below with reference to that
   application. However, it will be appreciated that it is not limited to that particular use,
10 and is also suitable for estimating the cost of other actions for multijurisdictional
   submissions to government or other entities.
   DISCUSSION OF THE PRIOR ART
           Current methods of generating cost estimates for filing foreign patent
   applications are generally very manual processes. The applicant of a given patent
15 application in a given jurisdiction will typically ask his, her or its local attorney how
   much it will cost to file one or more proposed patent applications outside the
   applicant's home country or region, where that proposed application is, or those
   proposed applications are, to be based upon the given patent application. The
   attorney then manually produces a general cost estimate based upon an average
20 cost of previously filed cases or simply obtains fresh estimates for the proposed
   applications directly from attorneys or agents practicing in the countries of interest to
   the applicant.
            It will be appreciated that the patent applicant is the client of the local
   attorney, and unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, the two terms "client" and
25 "patent applicant" are used interchangeably. Moreover, the terms "attorney", "patent
   attorney", "foreign attorney", "local attorney", "representative", "legal representative",
   "agent" and the like are all used to indicate a legal relationship, typically with the
   client or applicant, of a third party service provider.
           One disadvantage of such prior art methods is that estimates which are
30 based upon average costs are highly inaccurate. In most countries, translation costs
   vary according to the size of the patent specification and government fees (also
   known as official fees) vary according to the number of claims or pages in the patent
   specification. As such, while an average cost is relatively administratively convenient
   to calculate, it can often be inaccurate, making it less than ideal for budgeting
35 purposes.

                                                  2
            If the attorney chooses to obtain a more accurate cost estimate that is specific
   to the proposed application or applications, this will involve considerable time and
   effort to achieve with any real degree of accuracy. For example, if an applicant asks
   for a cost estimate in multiple countries, the attorney has to write to all of his/her
 5 foreign attorneys to request the estimates, then receive and compile them in the local
   currency for the applicant. This administrative effort is incurred by both the local
   attorney and the foreign attorneys. Alternatively, the local attorney needs to manually
   go through a schedule of charges for each foreign attorney and try to generate a cost
   estimate from those numbers. This process takes a lot of time, which the local
10 attorney would likely preferentially spend on higher level matters. The time involved
   can also negatively affect the client, especially where deadlines are looming for
   having the proposed application or applications filed.
            A further disadvantage of prior art methods is that in order to generate an
   accurate cost estimate for a proposed foreign application, certain statistics or
15 characteristics need to be known about the piece of industrial property. In the case of
   patents, for example, these statistics typically include the number of words in the
   associated patent specification, the number of pages in that specification, and the
   number of claims in that specification. This information is usually obtained by an
   administrator undertaking a manual count of the pages and other aspects of the
20 specification to gather the required statistics. Following from this, the administrator
   will then manually multiply the gathered statistics by the respective amounts gained
   from fee schedules provided by foreign attorneys. The process of manually finding
   those pieces of data and accurately calculating a foreign patent filing is usually too
   onerous for most attorneys/administrators to thoroughly pursue and hence the
25 accuracy of the cost estimate is compromised.
            Similar problems exist for filing other IP property matters be they trademark,
   copyright, utility model, design registrations or other like matters.
            It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
   of the disadvantages of the prior art or to provide a useful alternative.
30 DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
            According to a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
            the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
35 thereon and being configured to:

                                                  3
          (a)      receive, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user;
          (b)      automatically determine IP statistics corresponding to the IP identifier
          including the number of pages and the number of claims contained in the
 5        specification, without contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the
          user;
          (c)      automatically select a set of countries without receiving a
          contemporaneous user selection but by:
                   (i)      determining a client identifier using the IP identifier;
10                 (ii)     retrieving a set of predefined countries associated with the
                   client identifier;
                   (iii)    retrieving, from an IP database, a set of designated countries
                   associated with the IP identifier;
                   retrieving, from a provider database, a set of offered countries; and
15                 (iv)     calculating an intersection between the set of predefined
                   countries, the set of designated countries and the set of offered
                   countries, thereby to produce the set of automatically selected
                   countries; and
          (d)      for each automatically selected country:
20                 (i)      identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country; and
                   (ii)     apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                   country-specific foreign filing fee.
          According to a second aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer-implemented method of calculating country-specific fees including the
25 steps of,
          in a computer system having a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon:
          (a)      receiving, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
30        input to the user computer by a user;
          (b)      automatically determining IP statistics corresponding to the IP
          identifier including the number of pages and the number of claims contained
          in the specification, without contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics
          from the user;
35        (c)      automatically selecting a set of countries without receiving a
          contemporaneous user selection but by:
                   (i)      determining a client identifier using the IP identifier;

                                                 4
                  (ii)     retrieving a set of predefined countries associated with the
                  client identifier;
                  (iii)    retrieving, from an IP database, a set of designated countries
                  associated with the IP identifier;
 5                retrieving, from a provider database, a set of offered countries; and
                  (iv)     calculating an intersection between the set of predefined
                  countries, the set of designated countries and the set of offered
                  countries, thereby to produce the set of automatically selected
                  countries; and; and
10        (d)     for each automatically selected country:
                  (i)      identifying a selected fee rule corresponding to that country;
                  and
                  (ii)     applying the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                  country-specific fee.
15        According to a third aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being configured to:
20        (a)     receive an industrial property (IP) identifier;
          (b)     generate IP statistics corresponding to the IP identifier;
          (c)     generate a set of selected countries;
          (d)     identify at least one attorney associated with the selected country; and
          (e)     for each selected country and attorney pair:
25                (i)      identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country and
          attorney pair; and
                  (ii)     apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
          foreign filing fee.
          According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
30 computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being in communication with an IP database and a client database,
          the IP database being configured to store applicant and legal representative
35 data corresponding to a plurality of IP records, and
          the client database being configured to store a plurality of client identifiers and
   associated client preference data,

                                                 5
          the computer system being configured to:
          (a)      receive an industrial property (IP) identifier;
          (b)      automatically determine IP statistics corresponding to the IP identifier
          including the number of pages and the number of claims contained in the
 5        specification, without contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the
          user;
          (c)      retrieve, from the IP database, applicant and legal representative data
          relating to the IP identifier;
          (d)      search the client database to find a selected client identifier matching
10        one of the applicant or legal representative data;
          (e)      apply client preference data corresponding to the selected client
          identifier to automatically generate a set of selected countries without
          receiving a contemporaneous user selection; and
          (f)      for each automatically selected country:
15                 (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country; and
                   (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                   country-specific foreign filing fee.
          According to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
20        the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being in communication with an IP database and a client database,
          the IP database being configured to store applicant and legal representative
   data corresponding to a plurality of IP records, and
25        the client database being configured to store a plurality of client identifiers and
   associated client preference data,
          the computer system being configured to:
          (a)      receive, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user;
30        (b)      automatically determine IP statistics corresponding to the IP identifier
          including the number of pages and the number of claims contained in the
          specification, without contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the
          user;
          (c)      retrieve, from the IP database, applicant and legal representative data
35        relating to the IP identifier;
          (d)      search the client database to find a selected client identifier matching
          one of the applicant or legal representative data,

                                                  6
           (e)      apply client preference data corresponding to the selected client
           identifier to automatically generate a set of selected countries and at least
           one attorney associated with the selected country without receiving a
           contemporaneous user selection; and
 5         (f)      for each automatically selected country and attorney pair:
                    (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country and
                    attorney pair; and
                    (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                    foreign filing fee.
10         According to a sixth aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer system for calculating a fee for undertaking one or more predetermined
   actions in respect of an intellectual property (IP) application, where the computer
   system includes a processing computer having a central processing unit and a
   computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon and being
15 executable to allow the system to:
           (a)      receive an IP identifier for the application;
           (b)      generate IP statistics in response to the IP identifier;
           (c)      generate a set of selected countries; and
           (d)      for each country in the set of selected countries:
20                  (i)     identify a selected fee rule; and
                    (ii)    being responsive to the selected fee rule and the IP statistics
           to calculate the fee for the one or more predetermined actions in the
           corresponding country.
           In an embodiment, the set includes at least two countries.
25         In an embodiment, the IP statistics are indicative of at least two
   characteristics of the IP application.
           In an embodiment, the system includes an interface and the IP identifier is
   received from an interface.
           In an embodiment, the interface is instantiated on a client computer.
30         In an embodiment, the system is responsive to receiving the IP identifier for
   automatically calculating the fee or fees.
           In an embodiment, the system is responsive to the calculation of the fee for
   generating cost data indicative of the fee.
           In an embodiment, the cost data is communicated to the client computer. In
35 other embodiments, the cost data is communicated by email. In further embodiments,
   the storage medium is updated to include the cost data.

                                                   7
            In an embodiment, the interface is responsive to the calculation of the fee for
   displaying cost data indicative of the fee.
            In an embodiment, the cost data is indicative of the fee or each fee. In other
   embodiments, the cost data is indicative of the sum of the fee or each fee. In further
 5 embodiments, the cost data is indicative of both: the fee or each fee; and the sum of
   the fee or each fee.
           According to a seventh aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer system for calculating a fee for undertaking one or more predetermined
   actions in respect of an intellectual property (IP) application, where the computer
10 system includes a processing computer having a central processing unit and a
   computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon and being
   executable to allow the system to:
           (a)       provide an interface for instantiation on a client computer that is
                     remotely connected to the system via a network;
15         (b)       receive from the interface via the network an IP identifier for the
                     application;
           (c)       generate IP statistics in response to the IP identifier;
           (d)       generate a set of selected countries;
           (e)       for each country in the set of selected countries:
20                 i.    identify a selected fee rule; and
                  ii.    being responsive to the selected fee rule and the IP statistics to
                         calculate the fee for the one or more predetermined actions in the
                         corresponding country; and
           (f)       providing to the interface cost data that is indicative of the fee or fees
25                   calculated in sub-step (e)(ii).
            In an embodiment, the cost data is indicative of each fee calculated in sub
   step (e)(ii).
            In an embodiment, the system automatically provides the cost data to the
   interface. In other embodiments, the system provides the cost data to the interface
30 only in response to a specific request from the client computer. For example, in the
   latter embodiments, the default action is to send the cost data to an email address
   held within the storage medium.
           According to an eighth aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer implemented method for calculating a fee for undertaking one or more
35 predetermined actions in respect of an intellectual property (IP) application, where
   the method makes use of a computer system to:
           (a)       receive an IP identifier for the application;

                                                   8
          (b)        generate IP statistics in response to the IP identifier;
          (c)        generate a set of selected countries; and
          (d)        for each country in the set of selected countries:
                     (i)      identify a selected fee rule; and
 5                   (ii)     being responsive to the selected fee rule and the IP statistics
          to calculate the fee for the one or more predetermined actions in the
          corresponding country.
          According to a ninth aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
   computer implemented method for calculating a fee for undertaking one or more
10 predetermined actions in respect of an intellectual property (IP) application, where
   the method makes use of the computer system to:
          (a)        provide an interface for instantiation on a client computer that is
                     remotely connected to the system via a network;
          (b)        receive from the interface via the network an IP identifier for the
15                   application;
          (c)        generate IP statistics in response to the IP identifier;
          (d)        generate a set of selected countries;
          (e)        for each country in the set of selected countries:
                iii.      identify a selected fee rule; and
20              iv.       being responsive to the selected fee rule and the IP statistics to
                          calculate the fee for the one or more predetermined actions in the
                          corresponding country; and
          (f)        providing to the interface cost data that is indicative of the fee or fees
                     calculated in sub-step (e)(ii).
25
          According to a tenth aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
30 thereon and being configured to:
          (a)        receive, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user thereby to identify an electronic IP
          document;
          (b)        executing an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
35        extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of

                                                 9
          pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
          (c)     automatically select a set of countries without receiving a
          contemporaneous user selection but by:
 5                (i)      determining a client identifier using the IP identifier;
                  (ii)     retrieving a set of predefined countries associated with the
                  client identifier;
                  (iii)    retrieving, from an IP database, a set of designated countries
                  associated with the IP identifier;
10                (iv)     retrieving, from a provider database, a set of offered countries;
                  and
                  (v)      calculating an intersection between the set of predefined
                  countries, the set of designated countries and the set of offered
                  countries, thereby to produce the set of automatically selected
15                countries; and
          (d)     for each automatically selected country:
                  (i)      identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country; and
                  (ii)     apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                  country-specific foreign filing fee.
20        According to an eleventh aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   computer-implemented method of calculating country-specific fees including the
   steps of,
          in a computer system having a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
25 thereon:
          (a)     receiving, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user thereby to identify an electronic IP
          document;
          (b)     executing an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
30        extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
          pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
          (c)     automatically selecting a set of countries without receiving a
          contemporaneous user selection but by:
35                (i)      determining a client identifier using the IP identifier;
                  (ii)     retrieving a set of predefined countries associated with the
                  client identifier;

                                                10
                   (iii)   retrieving, from an IP database, a set of designated countries
                   associated with the IP identifier;
                   (iv)    retrieving, from a provider database, a set of offered countries;
                   and
 5                 (v)     calculating an intersection between the set of predefined
                   countries, the set of designated countries and the set of offered
                   countries, thereby to produce the set of automatically selected
                   countries; and; and
          (d)      for each automatically selected country:
10                 (i)     identifying a selected fee rule corresponding to that country;
                   and
                   (ii)    applying the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                   country-specific fee.
          According to a twelfth aspect of the present invention there is provided a
15 computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being configured to:
          (a)      receive an industrial property (IP) identifier and identify an electronic
20        IP document associated with the IP identifier;
          (b)      execute an algorithm by the central processing unit to extract IP
          statistics from the electronic IP document;
          (c)      generate a set of selected countries;
          (d)      identify at least one attorney associated with the selected country; and
25        (e)      for each selected country and attorney pair:
                   (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country and
                   attorney pair; and
                   (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                   foreign filing fee.
30        According to a thirteenth aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being in communication with an IP database and a client database,
35        the IP database being configured to store applicant and legal representative
   data corresponding to a plurality of IP records, and

                                                 11
          the client database being configured to store a plurality of client identifiers and
   associated client preference data,
          the computer system being configured to:
          (a)      receive an industrial property (IP) identifier thereby to identify an
 5        electronic IP document;
          (b)      execute an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
          extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
          pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
10        (c)      retrieve, from the IP database, applicant and legal representative data
          relating to the IP identifier;
          (d)      search the client database to find a selected client identifier matching
          one of the applicant or legal representative data;
          (e)      apply client preference data corresponding to the selected client
15        identifier to automatically generate a set of selected countries without
          receiving a contemporaneous user selection; and
          (f)      for each automatically selected country:
                   (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country; and
                   (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
20                 country-specific foreign filing fee.
          A computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being in communication with an IP database and a client database,
25        the IP database being configured to store applicant and legal representative
   data corresponding to a plurality of IP records, and
          the client database being configured to store a plurality of client identifiers and
   associated client preference data,
          the computer system being configured to:
30        (a)      receive, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user thereby to identify an electronic IP
          document;
          (b)      execute an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
          extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
35        pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;

                                                   12
             (c)      retrieve, from the IP database, applicant and legal representative data
             relating to the IP identifier;
             (d)      search the client database to find a selected client identifier matching
             one of the applicant or legal representative data,
 5           (e)      apply client preference data corresponding to the selected client
             identifier to automatically generate a set of selected countries and at least
             one attorney associated with the selected country without receiving a
             contemporaneous user selection; and
             (f)      for each automatically selected country and attorney pair:
10                    (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country and
                      attorney pair; and
                      (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                      foreign filing fee.
15 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             The preferred embodiments will now be described, by way of example only,
   with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
             Figure 1 is a block diagram of a computer system, according to an
   embodiment of the invention, for calculating country-specific fees;
20           Figure 2 is a flow diagram illustrating a process, according to an embodiment
   of the invention, of generating a set of selected countries;
             Figure 3 is a flow diagram, according to an embodiment of the invention,
   illustrating a process of generating IP statistics;
             Figure 4 is a schematic diagram, according to an embodiment of the
25 invention, illustrating a process of applying the fee rules to the IP statistics according
   to the invention;
             Figure 5 is a block diagram illustrating an IP statistics table according to an
   embodiment of the invention;
             Figure 6 is a block diagram illustrating a process, according to an
30 embodiment of the invention, of populating a specification statistics table for
   European patents;
             Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating a process, according to an
   embodiment of the invention, of populating a specification statistics table for PCT
   patent applications;
35           Figures 8A and 8B are respective screen shots of an interface, according to
   an embodiment of the invention, for creating a set of favorite countries;

                                                 13
            Figure 9 is a screen shot of an interface, according to an embodiment of the
   invention, for receiving an IP identifier and generating a 1-click quote;
            Figure 10 is a close-up screen shot of an interface, according to an
   embodiment of the invention, for receiving an IP identifier and generating a 1-click
 5 quote;
            Figure 11 is a screen shot of an interface, according to an embodiment of the
   invention, for displaying country-specific fees;
            Figure 12 is a screen shot of an example interface widget according to a
   second preferred embodiment of the invention; and
10          Figure 13 is a screen shot of an example set of fee results produced by the
   example interface widget of Figure 12.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
            In the description and claims use is made of the term "country" to indicate a
   jurisdiction to which an intellectual property right, or an application for an intellectual
15 property right, pertains. It will be appreciated that, unless the context clearly indicates
   otherwise, this term country is intended to also cover "region" or multiple countries if
   such an intellectual property has a nature which extends or applies to such a region
   or countries.
            In the description and claims the terms "intellectual property" and "industrial
20  property" are used interchangeably and both are abbreviated with the term "IP".
            Figure 1 shows a computer system 1 for calculating country-specific fees. The
   computer system has a central processing unit 2 and a computer-readable storage
   medium in the form of a memory 3. The memory has a client database 4, a rules
   database 5 and program instructions in the form of software 6 stored thereon. The
25 computer system 1 is in communication with an interface 14 and an IP database 17.
            In a first embodiment the interface 14 is located on the same server as the
   computer system 1. In a second embodiment, the interface 14' is located remotely
   from the computer system 1 and is accessed via a computer network. The interface
    14, 14' is configured to receive an industrial property (IP) identifier 15, 15' and to
30 provide it to the computer system 1, preferably along with a client identifier 7, 7'.
            The IP database 17 is preferably located remotely from the computer system
    1 and is accessed via a computer network.
            The client database 4 is configured to store a plurality of client identifiers 7
   and corresponding client preferences including lists of predefined countries 8. In the
35 preferred embodiment, the predefined countries 8 are a list of countries which
   correspond to a particular industrial property (IP) product or process. For example,

                                                 14
   the predefined countries 8 for a PCT application would be the list of countries into
   which the client normally enters the national stage. For a European patent, the
   predefined countries 8 would be the list of countries in which the client normally
   validates the European patent after grant.
 5          The client preferences preferably also include, for each client, a set of agent
   country pairs 77. These pairs identify the preferred foreign patent attorney agents the
   client likes to use in each country. Preferably, these pairs will include a default agent
   for each country.
            The rules database 5 is configured to store: a plurality of country-specific fee
10 rules 9, each corresponding to an offered country; a plurality of agent-specific fee
   rules 75, each corresponding to a set of default fees charged by a particular foreign
   patent attorney firm; and a plurality of client-specific fee rules 76, each corresponding
   to the fees negotiated with one or more of the attorneys by a particular client.
             Preferably, an offered country 10 is a country which is available for entry, as
15 determined by the organisation operating the computer system. For example, in the
   case of a PCT application, although at present there are over 140 PCT countries
   signatories to the PCT, the organisation operating the computer system may only
   include as the offered countries a smaller number of countries. For example, in this
   embodiment, the 30 countries most regularly selected by patent applicants are
20 included within the offered countries. However, in other embodiments, a different
   sub-set of countries is offered.
             Each country-specific rule specifies particular fees to be paid in each country
   when a foreign filing is made, regardless of the foreign agent being used. An
   example of these rules include the rules for calculating the official government fees
25 payable to enter the national phase of a PCT application in a given country.
            The agent-specific fee rules 75 correspond to the fees which a foreign
   attorney would charge for that particular case. For example, in the case of a PCT
   application that needs to enter the national stage in China, the agent-specific fee
   rules 75 would cover the services to pay the attorney for lodging the application and
30 their fees for translating the specification into Chinese. Some or all of these fees will
   only be calculable with reference to certain IP statistics (not shown in Figure 1),
   which in this example relate to one or more features of the PCT application. The IP
   statistics, which are designated in the figures with reference numeral 11, will be
   discussed in more detail later with reference to Figure 5.
35          The client-specific fee rules 76 are similar to the agent-specific fee rules 75 in
   that they relate to the foreign attorney charges associated with the IP filing. However,

                                                   15
   a client may have negotiated a specific cost structure with a particular firm, so the
   patent firm would need to be able to charge two or more different sets of fees.
            The IP database 17 is configured to store IP information including a plurality
   of IP identifiers 15 and electronic records 18 corresponding to the IP identifiers 15.
 5 Preferably, the IP identifiers 15 are IP application numbers such as patent application
   or publication numbers. More preferably, the IP identifiers are PCT application
   numbers or European patent application numbers. Preferably the electronic records
   18 which correspond to a patent identification number include both bibliographic
   information 19 and an electronic patent specification 20.
10          The software 6 of this preferred embodiment is programmed to perform a
   number of functions, as illustrated in Figures 2, 3 and 4.
            Figure 2 shows the steps the software 6 performs to generate a set of
   selected countries 12. First, the software 6 receives at step 13 a particular client
   identifier 7' and a particular industrial property (IP) identifier 15' from the interface 14.
15 Preferably, the interface 14 receives the particular client identifier 7' from a user (not
   shown). In the preferred embodiment, the particular client identifier 7' is a user name
   or email address which a user employs to log in to a secure website through which
   interface 14 is able to be accessed. The particular client identifier 7' is an identifier
   which uniquely identifies either a particular person or a particular client organisation.
20          In a second embodiment, the interface 14' is operated by a third party
   organisation and the client identifier 7' is not the end-user's identifier, but an identifier
   of the third party. This second embodiment is illustrated later in greater detail with
   reference to Figure 12.
            In a third embodiment, the interface 14 does not provide a client identifier 7' to
25 the computer system, but the computer system 1 instead infers a client identifier 7'
   from one or more of:
            (a)      the particular IP identifier 15';
            (b)      identifying data associated with the interface 14 (not shown);
            (c)      the IP address of the user's computer; and
30          (d)      the client database 4.
            For example, in the case of a patent application, the computer system is able
   to use the particular IP identifier 15' to retrieve the bibliographic data 19 from the IP
   database 17. That bibliographic data includes the applicant's name and the legal
   representative's name. The computer system 1 then searches the client database 4
35 to find whether the applicant or the legal representative have previously made use of
   the services of the service provider. If so, the computer system returns the client
   identifier 7' associated with that applicant or legal representative.

                                                 16
            Similarly, if neither the applicant nor the representative were included in the
   client database, the computer system is able to use the IP address of the user's
   computer to determine an approximate physical location of the user. The computer
   system then identifies which of the applicant's address and the legal representative's
 5 address the IP address most closely corresponds to and allocates a new client
   identifier 7' corresponding to the applicant or the legal representative.
            The identifying data associated with the interface may, for example, be the
   name of a third party hosting the interface on its website. By cross-referencing the
   third party name with its list of clients and the applicant and legal representative in
10 the bibliographic data, the correct client identifier is often able to be ascertained.
            In the case where a particular client identifier 7' cannot be found by the
   methods included in software 6, the system 1 will allocate a new client identifier 7
   and set a pricing level corresponding to the IP address of the user's computer. For
   example, one pricing level is set for users ascertained as being located in North
15 America and a separate pricing level is set for users ascertained as being located in
   Europe. Whilst in the case of a regular client, the pricing level would be set during
   discussions with the service provider, when automatically creating a pricing level, the
   system is able to be responsive to level based on rules associated with the user's
   location. In other embodiments, system 1 is responsive to the ascertained location of
20 the user for setting the currency in which the pricing is expressed to the user.In a
   fourth embodiment of the present invention, the interface 14 is embedded in a third
   party IP management software program (not shown). In this embodiment the
   interface 14 provides the IP identifier 7 to the computer system 1 via a web services
   interchange. In this interchange, the program provides a quote request (not shown)
25 to the computer system 1 in the form of an XML file constructed according to an
   agreed WDSL. The quote request includes the IP identifier 15, and other parameters
   including the countries requested, the client identifier 7 and the identity of the
   provider of the IP management software 79. In other embodiments, the quote request
   includes only the IP identifier 15.
30          When the computer system 1 receives the quote request, it performs the
   calculation in accordance with the embodiment described below and returns to the IP
   management software 79 a quote response (not shown). The quote response, in its
   preferred form, is an XML file constructed according to an agreed WDSL. The quote
   response includes the IP identifier 15 and the fee results 36. The quote response in
35 other embodiments also includes other information such as the countries selected, a
   breakdown of the fees either by country of by fee type, the names of the selected

                                                  17
   agents, the client identifier 15, the time and date of the calculation, the IP statistics
   32, 33, 34 and the like.
            A technical advantage of this web services embodiment of the present
   invention is that the applicant's fee calculation system is effectively embedded into
 5 third party software systems without the need for extensive and expensive integration
   efforts that is typically of combining systems of differing functionality. The use of XML
   as a common language, allows an IP software provider to have a very thin client
   interface. It will be appreciated, that most IP management software programs store
   an IP identifier 15. If the only thing those systems have to do is pass the IP identifier
10 15 to the computer system 1, then the IP software providers do not need to build into
   their system the complex calculation engines of the present invention. This not only
   obviates the considerable and typically cumbersome integration requirements, but
   also allows processing time to be minimised by moving the calculation processing to
   the powerful remote server upon which the computer system 1 of the present
15 embodiment is hosted.
            Returning to figure 2, the particular IP identifier 15' is preferably an industrial
   property application number. In this example, the IP identifier 15' is a patent
   application (or publication) number.
            Next, the software 6 retrieves at step 16, from the client database 4, the list of
20 predefined countries 8' associated with the client identifier 7'. Preferably, these
   predefined countries 8' have been set up earlier by the user and which correspond to
   the list of countries the client normally files into. Further details are provided below
   with reference to Figures 8A and 8B.
            Then, the software 6 uses the particular IP identifier 15' to search the IP
25 database 17 and retrieve at step 21 a set of designated countries 22 contained in the
   bibliographic information 19 corresponding to the particular IP identifier 15'. In this
   example, the particular IP identifier 15' is a PCT application and the list of designated
   countries 22 corresponds to the list of countries that the applicant
   selected/designated when filing the application as those countries which the
30 applicant wanted to reserve the right to enter the national stage. Those skilled in the
   art will understand the concept of "designated countries" and that it can be applied to
   a variety of international or regional IP applications, including but not limited to
   European patent applications, PCT applications, ARIPO, OAPI and Eurasian patent
   applications and the like. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that selections
35 or designations may be automatic or implicit, as is typically the case with European
   applications. They will also understand that the countries comprising the designated
   countries may depend upon the filing date of the application.

                                                18
           Next, the software 6 retrieves at step 23 the list of offered countries 10 from
   the rules database 5.
           The software 6 then calculates at step 24 the intersection between the set of
   predefined countries 8, the set of designated countries 22 and the set of offered
 5 countries 10 to return at step 25 a set of selected countries 12. The set of selected
   countries 12 therefore corresponds to the list of countries that (a) the user has
   expressed an interest in continuing to pursue protection (b) were designated when
   the IP application was originally filed, and are therefore available to be entered; and
   (c) are offered by the service provider operating the computer system. This set of
10 selected countries 12 is therefore the set of countries available to be entered by the
   user, using the service provider.
           In an alternative embodiment, the set of selected countries 12 consist of the
   intersection between one or two of the sets of countries - where the three sets
   include: the predefined countries 8; the designated countries 22; and the offered
15 countries 10 - depending upon the purpose of the calculation. In one version, the
   service provider is only interested in calculating estimates of foreign filing fees for any
   service provider, and hence would not limit the calculation to just offered countries
   10.
           In a further alternative embodiment, the list of predefined countries 8 is a
20 default set of countries set up by the service provider. In this example, the first time
   the computer system 1 calculates a country-specific foreign filing fee for a user, the
   fees for that default set of countries would initially appear.
           In the second embodiment described with reference to Figure 12, the
   predefined countries 8 comprise a subset of the most popular countries. By not
25 providing all available countries, the system only provides part of the information the
   user is interested in. To gain full access to all countries, the user is encouraged to
   complete a registration process. An example of the results achieved by providing a
   subset of the most popular countries appears in Figure 13.
           Turning now to Figure 3, the preferred embodiment of the software 6 is also
30 programmed to generate IP statistics 11 in a number of steps. After the computer
   system 1 receives at step 13 the particular IP identifier 15' via the interface 14, the
   software 6 uses the particular IP identifier 15' to search the IP database 17 and
   retrieve at step 27 a copy of a particular electronically stored patent specification 20'
   corresponding to the particular IP identifier 15'. The particular patent specification 20'
35 has a number of sections, including a description section 29, a claims section 30 and
   a drawings section 31.

                                                   19
            The software 6 then counts at step 28 the number of pages 32, the number of
   words of text 33 and the number of claims 34 contained in the electronic patent
   specification 20 and stores data indicative of all these IP statistics 11 in an IP
   statistics table 35. A preferred embodiment of the IP statistics table is described in
 5 detail below with reference to Figure 5.
            Turning now to Figure 4, after the software 6 has generated the set of
   selected countries 12 and the IP statistics 11 it then determines the correct fee rules
   to apply. The software 6 searches the rules database 5 to identify any agent-country
   pairs 77 that apply to the particular client identifier 7' and selects the corresponding
10 fee rule (whether it be a country-specific fee rule 9, an agent-specific fee rule 75 or a
   client-specific fee rule 76).
            In the preferred embodiment, when applying a particular fee rule, the
   computer system 1 would apply the following hierarchy:
            First:          apply country-specific fee rule 9;
15          Second:         if no client-specific fee rule 76 applies, apply agent-specific fee
                            rule 75, otherwise apply client-specific fee rule 76.
            As shown in Figure 4, the software 6 goes through each selected country 74,
   identifies the appropriate fee rule, then applies the fee rule to the IP statistics 11 in
   the IP statistics table 35 to produce fee results 36 for each country. In the preferred
20 embodiment, the software 6 stores the fee results 36 in a fee results table 37 and
   displays the fee results table via the interface 14 for viewing by the user.
            In one embodiment the software 6 returns multiple fee results 36 per country,
   each fee result corresponding to the fees charged by different foreign agents. By
   returning the fee results 36 for multiple agents simultaneously, the system does not
25 have to perform further re-calculations if the user selects an alternative agent.
            It is envisaged in one embodiment that whilst the computer system 1 returns
   multiple fee results 36 for each country, the interface 14 only displays one result,
   corresponding to a particular foreign agent. That way, if the user selects an
   alternative agent, the interface 14 does not have to send another request to the
30 computer system, but can simply display the alternative fee result 36 for the
   alternative agent. Such an embodiment not only reduces the amount of data
   transmitted from the interface 14 to the computer system 1 over the computer
   network, it also reduces the processing time needed to be performed by the
   computer system 1. Such an embodiment further reduces the response time taken
35 from requesting the alternative agent, to presenting the result on the interface.
            In the preferred embodiment, the computer system 1 is configured to
   calculate the country-specific fees 36 in response to a single user action, such as

                                                20
   clicking a button, clicking a link or speaking a sound. This single-action calculation of
   country-specific fees is able to be accomplished because the only information the
   user needs to provide is an IP identifier 15. The user does not have to provide the
   number of pages or words of the specification or the number of claims. The computer
 5 system 1 generates all of those IP statistics automatically. In addition, because the
   system 1 remembers the user's set of predefined countries 8, the user does not have
   to provide any country-selection information. Similarly, because the computer system
   remembers the user's set of default foreign attorneys (or group of foreign attorneys),
   the user does not have to provide that information any more than once. This pre
10 selection of countries and agents is particularly true in secure website versions of the
   software 6, where the client has to log in and their user name (and hence the client
   identifier 7') is known. Because the computer system stores this pre-defined country
   information and agent information, and because it is able to automatically calculate
   the IP statistics for the application - such as the numbers of pages, words etc in the
15 specification - it does not need to receive that information from the user interface.
   The passing of minimal data (either just the IP identifier and or the client identifier)
   from the user interface 14 results in several technical advantages of the present
   invention. One advantage is the reduction in data that needs to be passed from the
   interface 14 to the computer system 1. Where the interface is located remotely, this
20 technical feature results in the technical effect of reduced data traffic over the
   network. This decreases the time it takes to produce a cost estimate. Similarly,
   because the interface 14 only needs to collect and pass minimal information to the
   computer system 1, the interface can be deployed remotely in thin client applications
   with minimal technical set-up.
25          One example is provided in reference to Figure 12 where a widget 78 is
   deployed on a simple HTML website. Deploying such an interface in a third party
   website involves a simple change to the site's HTML code. In that example the
   widget 78 is configured to receive an IP identifier 7 and provide the identifier 7 to the
   computer system by way of a javascript jquery call. Enacting the jquery call involves
30 minimal information passage via the computer network and all of the processing and
   fee calculation is performed in the computer system 1, which is preferably located in
   a remote server with a high degree of processing power. The combination of
   technical features of the present invention allows the server computer system to
   handle the vast majority of the processing, rather than having processing located in
35 the interface (often located on a client's local computer). In this way the present
   invention has the technical advantage that computer processing time is greatly
   reduced.

                                                21
           The following provides a lower level of detail of certain aspects of the
   preferred embodiment of the present invention.
           Figure 5 shows an example IP statistics table 35, which in this example is a
   patent specification statistics table. As many fee rules for PCT national stage entry
 5 and European validation depend upon a variety of variables 46, and since there are
   over 140 PCT countries and over 30 European validation countries, many variables
   46 need to be known in order to accurately calculate the country-specific fees 36 in a
   variety of countries.
           In this example, the IP statistics table 35 includes the following (non
10 exhaustive list of) variables 46:
           (a)      description words 38 indicating the number of words in the description
   section of the specification;
           (b)      claims words 39 indicating the number of words in the claims section
   of the specification;
15         (c)      total words 40 indicating the total number of words of text in the
   specification;
           (d)      description pages 41 indicating the number of pages in the description
   section of the specification;
           (e)      claims pages 42 indicating the number of pages in the claims section
20 of the specification;
           (f)      drawings pages 43 indicating the number of pages in the drawings
   section of the specification;
           (g)      No. of chemical formulas 44 indicating the number of chemical
   formulas within the text of the specification; and
25         (h)      No. of mathematical formulas 45 indicating the number of
   mathematical formulas within the text of the specification.
           The process of generating the IP statistics 11 will vary according to the types
   of data available and the type of IP. The following illustrative examples describe the
   process of generating IP statistics for a European patent that needs to be validated in
30 various European countries and for a PCT application which needs to enter the PCT
   national stage.
   Generating IP statistics for a European patent
           Turning to Figure 6, the IP database 17 in the case of a European patent
   takes the form of the Espace A/B XML files 47 which are downloadable from the
35 European Patent Office on a weekly basis. These files contain data about published
   A and B documents, with A-documents representing un-granted patent specifications

                                                 22
   associated with patent applications and B-documents representing patent
   specifications associated with granted patents.
             The XML files 47 contain a plurality of section indicia in the form of XML tags
   48 which serve to delineate sections of the specification including the description,
 5 claims and drawings. The table of figure 6 illustrates a variety of XML tags 48 and the
   corresponding data they represent.
             In order to calculate the description words 38, the software 6 first extracts the
   text that appears after the <description> tag 49 and before the <claims> tag 50. The
   system them performs a number of parsing processes on the extracted text. One
10 such parsing process separates out the text that forms part of the specification from
   meta data such as XML or HTML tags. The description words 38 takes into account
   not only the literal number of words (the text count 55), but also allocates a nominal
   word count where chemical formulae, mathematical formulae or images appear. This
   is because many translators and patent attorneys apply charges depending upon the
15 number of these elements in the specification, since chemical formulae and the like
   need to be carefully reviewed and formatted.
             To calculate the number of chemical formulae, the preferred embodiment
   counts the number of <chemistry> tags 51 in the XML file 47. It then determines a
   chemical count 52 by multiplying the number of chemical formula by a predetermined
20 number of words, such as 10. A similar process is followed to get a maths count 53
   corresponding to the number of mathematical formulae times the predetermined
   number of words, and an image count 54. The description words 39 variable is then
   calculated by summing the text count 55, the chemical count 52, the maths count 53
   and the image count 54.
25           To determine the claims words 39, a similar process is undergone between
   the <claims> tag 50 and the <drawings> tag 56, extracting and parsing the text,
   counting the numbers of chemical formulae, mathematical formulae and images,
   multiplying them by the nominal word count for each and summing the result.
             One piece of data that cannot be obtained from the A and B publication XML
30 files is the number of pages of the specification. In this example, the software uses
   the IP identifier 15 to query another information service from the EPO known as the
   OPS Web service. It then runs a "document-enquiry" process which then allows the
   system to automatically determine the description pages 41, claims pages 42, and
   drawings pages 43. This variable is needed because the patent offices of some
35 validation countries charge a printing fee according to the number of pages in the
   specification.

                                                 23
             In order to determine the number of claims 61, the software 6 searches after
   the first <claims> tag 50 and then counts the number of <claims> tags 50 that appear
   after it. The resulting number is the number of claims 61 in the specification.
   Generating IP statistics for a PCT application
 5           Although many of the processes for generating IP statistics for a PCT
   application are similar for those for a European patent, some are different because
   the data sources are different. In the case of a PCT application WIPO scans the
   specification text, runs an OCR process on the text and stores the electronic
   specification 20 as a PDF document.
10           As shown in Figure 7, the software 6 retrieves 16 the electronic specification
   20 from the IP database 15. In this case, the IP database is accessed via the PS web
   server service at WIPO.int and running the getAvailableDocuments process to return
   a particular PDF specification 57 corresponding to the IP identifier 15. Once
   retrieved, the software 6 searches the PDF specification 57 for a description
15 bookmark 58, a claims bookmark 59 and a drawings bookmark 60, each being indicia
   delineating sections of the specification including the description, claims and
   drawings. Those bookmarks contain information corresponding to the number of
   pages of each of those sections. The software 6 extracts that information and stores
   it in the IP statistics table 35 as the description pages 41, claims pages 42 and
20 drawing pages 43 variables.
             The software 6 then extracts the text between the description bookmark 58
   and the claims bookmark 59 and performs a parsing and word count process similar
   to that described above to return the description words 38 variable. It performs a
   similar process on the claims section to return the claims words 39 variable.
25           The following paragraphs illustrate a preferred example of the interface 14
   which embodies many of the features of the present invention.
             Turning to Figures 8A and 8B, there is shown a screen shot of a portion of the
   interface 14 dedicated to allowing a user to create a set of favorite countries 8,
   known as the my profile page. In use, in order to create the set of predefined
30 (favorite) countries 8, the user moves a country from the available countries section
   63 to the my favorites section 64 by double-clicking or dragging and dropping.
             Turning to Figure 9, there is shown a screen shot of a portion of the interface
   14 dedicated to allowing a user to calculate country-specific fees in response to a
   single user action (or, more colloquially, generate a 1-click quote), known as the my
35 portfolio page 65. The my portfolio page 65 has a number of sections: a 1-click quote
   section 66; a my future cases section 77; and a my past cases section 78.

                                                 24
             In use, the user can generate the 1-click quote in one of two ways. He or she
   can either find the IP identifier 15 of interest in either the my future cases section 77
   or the my past cases section 78, and click "new" or "view" in the quote column. When
   they perform the single user action of clicking that link, the software 6 performs all of
 5 the above-described steps to generate a foreign filing quote for the user's predefined
   countries.
            Alternatively, the user can use the 1-click quote section 66. As illustrated in
   Figure 10, the user simply selects the type of IP they are interested in getting a quote
   for (in this case the service provider has pctfiler for PCT national stage entry,
10 epvalidation for European validation and iptranslatorfor IP translations) from the
   drop-down menu 69, enters the IP identifier 15 in the IP identifier receiving field 70
   and clicks the "get quote" button 71. When they perform the single user action of
   clicking that button, the software 6 performs all of the above-described steps to
   generate a foreign filing quote for the user's predefined countries.
15           In the embodiment shown in Figure 12, the user does not even have to select
   the type of IP he or she is interested in. In this embodiment, the system infers the
   type of IP from the format of the IP identifier 7 provided. For example, a PCT
   application number always has the format PCT/CCNNNN/NNNNNN where CC is the
   country code and N is an integer. Similarly a European publication number has the
20 format EPNNNNNNN.
             Figure 1 1A shows a screen shot of a portion of the interface 14 dedicated to
   displaying the country-specific fees 36, according to an embodiment of the invention.
   This figure shows the fee results table 37 including the service fees, official fees and
   translation fees separately itemized. Figure 11 B shows a change countries section
25 72 of the same page which allows a user to modify the countries the quote has been
   generated for and create a new quote by clicking the recalculate button 73.
            A number of variations on the above preferred embodiment are envisaged,
   including but not limited to the following: the steps of generating the IP statistics 11
   and the set of selected countries 12 are either be calculated "on the fly" in response
30 to a user request or generated periodically in a batch process for a large number of
   IP applications.
            The present invention may also be applied to other types of IP such as
   trademarks. Instead of generating the IP statistics which, in patents, correspond to
   the number of pages, words and claims of the specification, the corresponding IP
35 statistics in trademarks are the number of classes. Trademark fee rules, either
   government or attorney fees, often vary according to the number of classes a

                                                25
   trademark covers. As such, the present invention could be readily applied to produce
   cost estimates for the filing of foreign trademark applications.
           The major advantages of the above embodiments include:
       *   A high level of accuracy.
 5     0   An increased time efficiency.
       *   A reduction in the transfer of data from the user's (or client) computer to the
           (remote) server computer. This reduces the network connection bandwidth
           required for effective operation of the embodiments, and increases the
           response time of the system. This is particularly advantageous for those
10         instances when multiple computations are concerned, as large amounts of
           data are no longer required to be sent over a computer network including the
           client computer. Hence the risk of that network being slow through the use of
           the embodiments is reduced.
       *   Most of the computational capacity is located at the remote server. This
15         alleviates having to have high computational capacity at the client computer.
           Accordingly, the embodiments are easily applied to a large range of client
           computers. It has been found that by having relatively powerful remote server
           computers as the site for the significant computations provides for a more
           stable and effective implementation of the embodiments.
20         The above embodiments have been presented illustratively to assist the
   addressee understand the structure and function of those embodiments. That
   addressee will also appreciate, particularly given the benefit of the teaching herein,
   that various features and functions from the embodiments are selectively available in
   combination, or are interchangeable or omissible depending, upon the specifics of
25 the precise implementation of an embodiment. The intention of the inventors in
   providing the exemplary embodiments is to demonstrate the implementation of the
   invention and not to suggest that those features and functions are not able to be
   added substituted or omitted from other possible embodiments.
           Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
30 examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
   embodied in many other forms, including but not limited to being embodied as
   devices, systems and methods.

                                                 26
   CLAIMS
   1.      A computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
           the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
 5 thereon and being configured to:
           (a)     receive, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
           input to the user computer by a user thereby to identify an electronic IP
           document;
           (b)     executing an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
10         extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
           pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
           contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
           (c)     automatically select a set of countries without receiving a
           contemporaneous user selection but by:
15                 (i)      determining a client identifier using the IP identifier;
                   (ii)     retrieving a set of predefined countries associated with the
                   client identifier;
                   (iii)    retrieving, from an IP database, a set of designated countries
                   associated with the IP identifier;
20                 (iv)     retrieving, from a provider database, a set of offered countries;
                   and
                   (v)      calculating an intersection between the set of predefined
                   countries, the set of designated countries and the set of offered
                   countries, thereby to produce the set of automatically selected
25                 countries; and
           (d)     for each automatically selected country:
                   (i)      identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country; and
                   (ii)     apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                   country-specific foreign filing fee.
30 2.      A computer-implemented method of calculating country-specific fees
   including the steps of,
           in a computer system having a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon:

                                                 27
          (a)      receiving, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user thereby to identify an electronic IP
          document;
          (b)      executing an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
 5        extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
          pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
          (c)      automatically selecting a set of countries without receiving a
          contemporaneous user selection but by:
10                 (i)      determining a client identifier using the IP identifier;
                   (ii)     retrieving a set of predefined countries associated with the
                   client identifier;
                   (iii)    retrieving, from an IP database, a set of designated countries
                   associated with the IP identifier;
15                 (iv)     retrieving, from a provider database, a set of offered countries;
                   and
                   (v)      calculating an intersection between the set of predefined
                   countries, the set of designated countries and the set of offered
                   countries, thereby to produce the set of automatically selected
20                 countries; and; and
          (d)      for each automatically selected country:
                   (i)      identifying a selected fee rule corresponding to that country;
                   and
                   (ii)     applying the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
25                 country-specific fee.
   3.     A computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being configured to:
30        (a)      receive an industrial property (IP) identifier and identify an electronic
          IP document associated with the IP identifier;
          (b)      execute an algorithm by the central processing unit to extract IP
          statistics from the electronic IP document;
          (c)      generate a set of selected countries;
35        (d)      identify at least one attorney associated with the selected country; and
          (e)      for each selected country and attorney pair:

                                                 28
                   (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country and
                   attorney pair; and
                   (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
                   foreign filing fee.
 5 4.     A computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being in communication with an IP database and a client database,
          the IP database being configured to store applicant and legal representative
10 data corresponding to a plurality of IP records, and
          the client database being configured to store a plurality of client identifiers and
   associated client preference data,
          the computer system being configured to:
          (a)      receive an industrial property (IP) identifier thereby to identify an
15        electronic IP document;
          (b)      execute an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
          extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
          pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
20        (c)      retrieve, from the IP database, applicant and legal representative data
          relating to the IP identifier;
          (d)      search the client database to find a selected client identifier matching
          one of the applicant or legal representative data;
          (e)      apply client preference data corresponding to the selected client
25        identifier to automatically generate a set of selected countries without
          receiving a contemporaneous user selection; and
          (f)      for each automatically selected country:
                   (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country; and
                   (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
30                 country-specific foreign filing fee.
   5.     A computer system for calculating country-specific fees,
          the computer system including a processing computer having a central
   processing unit and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
   thereon and being in communication with an IP database and a client database,

                                                29
          the IP database being configured to store applicant and legal representative
   data corresponding to a plurality of IP records, and
          the client database being configured to store a plurality of client identifiers and
   associated client preference data,
 5        the computer system being configured to:
          (a)      receive, from a user computer, an industrial property (IP) identifier
          input to the user computer by a user thereby to identify an electronic IP
          document;
          (b)      execute an algorithm by the central processing unit to automatically
10        extract IP statistics from the electronic IP document including the number of
          pages and the number of claims contained in the specification, without
          contemporaneously receiving said IP statistics from the user;
          (c)      retrieve, from the IP database, applicant and legal representative data
          relating to the IP identifier;
15        (d)      search the client database to find a selected client identifier matching
          one of the applicant or legal representative data,
          (e)      apply client preference data corresponding to the selected client
          identifier to automatically generate a set of selected countries and at least
          one attorney associated with the selected country without receiving a
20        contemporaneous user selection; and
          (f)      for each automatically selected country and attorney pair:
                   (i)     identify a selected fee rule corresponding to that country and
                   attorney pair; and
                   (ii)    apply the selected fee rule to the IP statistics to calculate a
25                 foreign filing fee.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
