                                           ABSTRACT
A social media content communication system includes a display device; a remote controller
providing at least one social media communication input element; a remote content server from
which content is network accessible; and a set top box coupled to the display device and the
remote content server. The set top box is configured for: presenting a graphical user interface
(GUI) responsive to remote controller input on the display device; managing content presentation
on the display device; presenting a social media sharing interface corresponding to a set of social
media services on the display device during content presentation thereon or while such content
presentation is paused; receiving by way of the remote controller user input corresponding to a
user social media response to content presented on the display device; and automatically
communicating by way of the set top box the user's social media response to a user social media
account.

          SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR NETWORKED COMMUNICATION OF
  INFORMATION CONTENT BY WAY OF A DISPLAY SCREEN AND A REMOTE
                                           CONTROLLER
 This application is a divisional application of AU2014293711 and claims the benefit of and
 priority to Singaporean Application No. SG201305742-7 filed 26 July 2013, the contents
 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
Technical Field
The present      disclosure relates   generally to a     system and method    for networked
communication of information content by way of a display screen and a remote controller. In
particular, a system and method are provided whereby digital video, audio, textual and visual
informative, entertainment, and social media content, data, and/or signals are communicated
over a network by way of a server and a client coupled to a display screen, where the client is
responsive to commands and information receivable from a remote controller.
Background
Entertainment content has enthralled viewers on the television screen for many years. With
advances in technology, in particular, high-speed network connectivity, an increasing amount
of entertainment content can now be provided to users through a content provider.
Cable network providers, broadband-based providers or satellite dish network providers are
presently the leaders in content provision for everyday consumers. However, a user's
entertainment content is usually limited to fixed channel packages or various entertainment
channels which the user has preselected and is paying for. Some providers do provide an "on
demand" option for movie broadcast selection. Nevertheless, entertainment content as
provided by traditional set top boxes can seldom be considered as interactive. The limit of
interactivity usually ends at a user changing channels at his set top box.
Technology has advanced recently, such that operating systems for mobile devices such as
smartphones or tablets carry about and run a multitude of applications which engage the user
and seeks to provide a user with magnitudes of information at his fingertips at a moment's
notice. A few technology developers have also sought and managed to provide such mobile
device operating systems into set top boxes connected to a television display set such that a
user is able to enjoy his mobile content on a large screen display.
Still, the merger and provision of television based media content, entertainment and media
content is still lacking in the consumer market, and especially a content provision system
                                                1

   which provides interactivity and learns and adapts to a user's preferences and usage of the
   system.
   Summary
   In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure, a process for network communication
 5 of social media content generated by a user while content is presented to the user includes:
   providing a display device; providing a set top box coupled to a remote content server, the
   remote content server configured for selectively communicating with the set top box by way
   of a computer network, wherein the set top box is configured to control the presentation of
   content on the display device; providing a remote controller carrying a plurality of user
10 selectable input elements and configured for communicating with the set top box in response
   to receiving user input directed to a Graphical User Interface (GUI) presented on the display
   device; presenting the content on the display device by way of the set top box; during the
   presentation of the content on the display device, receiving by way of the remote controller
   user input corresponding to user sharing of a user social media response to the content
15 presented on the display device; presenting a social media sharing interface corresponding to
   a set of social media services on the display device during content presentation on the display
   device or while such content presentation is paused; receiving by way of the remote
   controller the user's social media response to the content presented on the display device; and
   automatically communicating by way of the set top box the user's social media response to a
20 user social media account associated with the set of social media services.
   The content presented on the display device can exist in one or more forms, including
   images, graphics, animations, video, audio, text, and/or other forms.        Such content can
   correspond, for instance, to one of user accommodations, a movie, a television program, a
25 game application, or another application.
   The user's social media response to the content presented on the display device can include
   one or more of a predetermined, user-customizable, or user-input message, comment, remark,
   post, or feedback directed to the user social media account. For instance, the user's social
30 media response to the content presented on the display device can include or be a "like,"
   "thumbs-up," or "thumbs down" indicator, a set of icons, a set of emoticons, text, a set of
   images, graphics, a set of animations, a set of videos, and/or audio.
                                                   2

   The social media sharing interface can display at least one social media response option
   available to the user, where each displayed social media response option corresponds to a
   social media service within the set of social media services for which the user is logged in or
   to which the user can log in to a corresponding social media account.
 5
   The process can further include presenting a share symbol or icon on the display device
   during display device presentation of the content on the display device. Receiving by way of
   the remote controller user input corresponding to user sharing of the user's social media
   response can include receiving user input directed to user selection of this share symbol or
10 icon. The plurality of user selectable input elements carried by the remote controller includes
   at least one social media communication or sharing input element. Thus, receiving by way of
   the remote controller user input corresponding to user sharing of the user's social media
   response can include receiving user input selecting the social media sharing input element
   carried by the remote controller.
15
   The social media sharing interface can display a set of user selectable social media response
   options, each of which corresponds to a social media service with which the user has a social
   media account. The process can further include performing by way of the set top box a set of
   log in operations that log the user into at least one social media account provided by the set of
20 social media services; and possibly (a) automatically retrieving a set of images from the at
   least one social media account in association with a user log in event directed to the at least
   one social media account, and (b) presenting on the display device the set of images retrieved
   from the at least one social media account as part of a screen saver mode. The process can
   additionally or alternatively include retrieving or receiving a set of files including one or
25 more icon files, image files, graphics files, animation files, video files, and/or audio files
   from the at least one social media account and/or a mobile device provided by the user, and
   presenting by way of communication between the set top box and the display device content
   within the retrieved / received set of files during a screen saver mode. In some embodiments
   the process includes providing by way of the set top box a set of user selectable screen saver
30 mode content choices corresponding to available screen saver mode content, the available
   screen saver mode content including one or more image files, graphics files, animation files,
   video files, audio files, and/or an information ticker; receiving user input from the remote
   controller identifying one or more screen saver mode content choices corresponding to
   particular screen saver mode content within the available screen saver mode content to be
                                                     3

   presented on the display device during screen saver mode; and presenting by way of
   communication between the set top box and the display device the particular screen saver
   mode content during screen saver mode.
 5 The process can include performing housekeeping operations that securely delete user social
   media account information. Such housekeeping operations can be automatically performed
   in response to the user logging out of a social media account within the set of social media
   accounts, or in response to a de-registration event when the user checks out of user
   accommodations.
10
   In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure, a system for network communication
   of social media content generated by a user while the user views content includes: a display
   device on which content is presentable; a remote controller carrying a plurality of user input
   elements; a remote content server from which content is accessible, the remote content server
15 coupled to a computer network; and a set top box coupled to the display device and the
   remote content server and configured for communication with the remote controller. The set
   top box is configured for: presenting a graphical user interface (GUI) on the display device,
   the GUI responsive to user input received by the remote controller; managing the
   presentation of content on the display device; presenting a social media sharing interface
20 corresponding to a set of social media services on the display device during the presentation
   of the content on the display device or while the presentation of the content on the display
   device is paused; receiving by way of the remote controller user input corresponding to user
   sharing of a user social media response to the content presented on the display device; and
   automatically communicating by way of the set top box the user's social media response to a
25 user social media account associated with the set of social media services.
   The GUI can include a social media accounts interface that can receive remote controller
   input for logging the user into or logging the user out of a set of user social media accounts
   corresponding to the set of social media services. The GUI presents a user selectable share
30 symbol or icon on the display device during display device presentation of content on the
   display device. The plurality of user input elements carried by the remote includes at least
   one user selectable social media sharing input element, for instance, a first social media
   sharing input element carried by a first side of the remote controller, and a second social
                                                 4

   media sharing input element carried by a second side of the remote controller distinct from
   the first side of the remote controller.
   The GUI can include a screen saver mode, and the set top box can be further configured for:
 5 automatically retrieving a set of images from a social media account in association with a
   user log in event directed to the social media account; and presenting on the display device
   the set of images retrieved from the social media account as part of the screen saver mode.
   Additionally or alternatively, the set top box can be configured for: retrieving or receiving a
   set of files including one or more image files, graphics files, animation files, video files,
10 and/or audio files from the social media account(s) and/or a mobile device provided by the
   user; and presenting by way of communication between the set top box and the display
   device the set of files during the screen saver mode. In some embodiments, the set top box is
   configured for providing a set of user selectable screen saver mode content choices
   corresponding to available screen saver mode content, the available screen saver mode
15 content including one or more image files, graphics files, animation files, video files, audio
   files, and/or information tickers; receiving user input from the remote controller identifying
   one or more screen saver mode content choices corresponding to particular screen saver
   mode content within the available screen saver mode content to be presented on the display
   device during screen saver mode; and presenting on display device during screen saver mode
20 the particular screens saver mode content.
   The set top box can also be configured for: storing user social media account log in details;
   and automatically securely deleting the user social media account log in details in response to
   a user social media account log out event, or a user de-registration event corresponding to
25 user check out from user accommodations.
   Brief description of drawings
   FIG. I illustrates a system for delivering content to a display screen, according to an
   embodiment of the present disclosure.
30 FIG. 2 illustrates a content distribution network according to the present embodiment.
   FIG. 3 illustrates a screen display of a graphical user interface according to an embodiment.
                                                   5

   FIG. 4 illustrates a schematic representation of program instruction sets corresponding to the
   set top box according to an embodiment.
   FIG. 5A illustrates a remote controller provided as part of the system of the present
   embodiment.
 5 FIG. 5B illustrates a rear view of the remote controller of FIG. 5A.
   FIGs. 5C and 5D show an embodiment of a remote controller having at least one social media
   share button according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   FIG. 6 illustrates a screen display of a GUI according to another embodiment.
   FIG. 7 shows a representative home screen presented or presentable by the GUI in
10 accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   FIGs. 8A and 8B show a representative settings interface and a representative social media
   interface provided by the GUI in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   FIG. 9 shows a representative example of a digital photograph retrieved from a user's
   Facebook Wall following user log in to their Facebook account, and which is presented in a
15 fotoframe on a display screen while the GUI and/or display screen remain in a screen saver
   mode.
   FIG. I OA shows the presentation of representative informative content corresponding to hotel
   accommodations by the display screen, and the presentation of a user-selectable share symbol
   or icon on the display screen.
20 FIG. 10B shows a representative presentation of a set of social media response options on the
   display screen in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   FIG. IOC indicates user selection of a Facebook "like" option, which corresponds to
   particular hotel accommodations currently presented on the display screen.
      I
   FIG. 1OD shows a first status box indicating that the user's "like" is being submitted to
25 Facebook.
   FIG. IOE shows a second status box indicating that the user's "like" has been posted on
   Facebook.
                                                  6

   FIG. IOF shows a third status box indicating that a Twitter post submission is in progress.
   FIG. lOG shows a fourth status box indicating that the Twitter post has been successfully
   posted.
   FIG. I IA shows a representative manner in which the GUI can present portions of a movie
 5 on the display screen, along with a share symbol / icon in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present disclosure.
   FIG. 11B shows a representative set of user-selectable social media response options (e g.,
   Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo) that the GUI presents to the user in association with or during
   display screen presentation of the movie in accordance with an embodiment of the present
10 disclosure.
   FIG. 12A shows a representative manner in which the GUI can present portions of a
   television program on the display screen, along with a share symbol / icon in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure.
   FIG. 12B shows a representative set of user-selectable social media response options (e.g.,
15 Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo) that the GUI presents to the user in association with or during
   presentation of the television program in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure,
   FIG. 13A shows a representative manner in which the GUI can present portions of a game on
   the display screen in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
20 FIG. 13B shows a representative set of user-selectable social media response options (e.g.,
   Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo) that the GUI presents to the user in association with
   presentation of the game (e.g., Angry Birds Rio) in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure.
   Detailed Description
25 In the following, reference is made to embodiments of the disclosure. However, it should be
   understood that the disclosure is not limited to specific described embodiments. Instead, any
   combination    of the following features       and elements, whether related to       different
   embodiments or not, is contemplated to implement and practice the disclosure.
                                                   7

   Furthermore, in various embodiments the disclosure provides one or more advantages over
   the prior art. However, although embodiments of the disclosure may achieve advantages
   over other possible solutions and/or over the prior art, whether or not a particular advantage is
   achieved by a given embodiment is not limiting of the disclosure.             Thus, the following
 5 aspects, features, embodiments and advantages are merely illustrative and are not considered
   elements or limitations of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim(s).
   Likewise, any reference to "the invention" shall not be construed as a generalization of any
   inventive subject matter disclosed herein and shall not be considered to be an element or
   limitation of the appended claims except where explicitly recited in a claim(s).
10 In the present disclosure, depiction of a given element or consideration or use of a particular
   element number in a particular FIG. or a reference thereto in corresponding descriptive
   material can encompass the same, an equivalent, or an analogous element or element number
   identified in another FIG. or descriptive material associated therewith. The use of "/" herein
   means "and / or" unless specifically indicated otherwise.
15 As used herein, the term "set" corresponds to or is defined as a non-empty finite organization
   of elements that mathematically exhibits a cardinality of at least I (i.e., a set as defined herein
   can correspond to a singlet or single element set, or a multiple element set), in accordance
   with known mathematical definitions (for instance, in a manner corresponding to that
   described in An Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning: Numbers, Sets, and Functions,
20 "Chapter 11: Properties of Finite Sets" (e.g., as indicated on p. 140), by Peter J. Eccles,
   Cambridge University Press (1998)).       In general, an element of a set can include or be a
   system, an apparatus, a device, a structure, a structural feature, an object, a process, a
   physical parameter, or a value depending upon the type of set under consideration. The terms
   "group" and "gang" as used herein correspond to or are defined as an organization of two or
25 more elements, e.g., a group or gang can be defined as a set having at least two components.
   The term "subgroup" as used herein corresponds to or is defined as a portion of a group or
   gang, and hence corresponds to or can be defined as an organization of at least one element,
   e.g., a subgroup can be defined as a set having at least one component.
   For purpose of brevity and to aid understanding, in the description that follows, the term
30 "content" refers to information content, data, and/or signals. Embodiments in accordance
   with the present      disclosure  are directed    to systems    and methods         for networked
   communication of content by way of one or more display devices or display screens and a
                                                   8

   controller. In particular, embodiments are directed to systems and methods for (a) delivering
   content to a display screen, in which the display is governed by a GUI, and in which the GUI
   is modified or modifiable by the provision of digital advertising content tailored by a user's
   usage and/or preferences; and (b) communicating social networking or social media related
 5 content to one or more network accessible destinations (e.g., at least one social networking
   site such as Facebook, Twitter, or Weibo by which content can be shared) in response to user
   input received by way of a remote controller.        The communication of social networking
   related content to one or more destinations (e.g., social networking sites) can occur
   dynamically or in real-time while the display screen presents particular types of content (e.g.,
10 a game; a movie; a cable or public broadcast network television program; informational
   images; or other content) to a user.        Such social networking related content can be
   contextually correlated with a user's response to or evaluation of content output by the
   display screen (e.g., audio and/or visual content), for instance, by way of user selection or
   input of one or more types of textual and/or visual remarks, comments, messages, images,
15 and/or icons (e.g., which can indicate the user's opinion, viewpoint, feedback, or feelings
   about content presented on the display screen).       In multiple embodiments, by way of a
   display device, a remote controller, a GUI, and appropriate types of networked or
   networkable elements and/or modules (e.g., program instruction or software) such as those
   described herein, systems and methods in accordance with embodiments of the present
20 disclosure can seamlessly integrate user selectable / selective content display with one or
   more social networking services, interfaces, sites, or portals.
   FIG. I illustrates a system for communicating content by way of a display screen, according
   to an embodiment of the present disclosure. System 100 includes a set top box 102 coupled to
   a display screen 104, a television in this case, the set top box 102 delivering entertainment
25 and/or informative content, and preferably digitally, to the display screen 104 through a cable
   connection 106. In the present embodiment, a High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI)
   cable is provided for audio/video content transfer for playing on the display screen 104. In
   other embodiments, other audio/video connectors, for example, RCA connectors, a S-Video
   connector, a VGA connector, a DVI connector, or a IEEE 1394 FireWire connector can be
30 used for the delivery of content from box 102 to screen 104. Wireless connectivity through
   Wifi or any other wireless communications protocol could also be used as a connection
   between box 102 and screen 104. In other embodiments, screen 104 can be provided by a
   computer monitor, a projector, a computer laptop screen configured to receive input or any
                                                  9

   other display apparatus capable of receiving video and/or audio input. Speakers (not shown)
   may also be coupled, possibly through screen 104, to box 102 to enhance the audio content
   delivery for enhancing a user's experience.
   Set top box 102 is also coupled for communication with the Internet 108, and in the present
 5 embodiment, through a broadband modem 110 modulating analog carrier signals to encode
   and decode digital information. The modem 110 acts as a muter for communication with an
   Internet Service Provider, which thereafter provides further communication to the Internet
    108. Set box 102 could also be wirelessly coupled to the broadband modem 110 or to any
   other kind of modem that provides access to the Internet.
10 In the present embodiment, the set up box 102 acts as a client in communication with at least
   one remote server 200 which provides content through the Internet for multiple clients. The
   set top box 102 provides a secure client connection to resources offered and hosted by the
   server 200, The server, as well as the deliverable content hosted on the server, are managed
   by a content provider with which various users and/or subscribers have pre-registered to have
15 content delivered to them, through a provided associated set top box 102. The set top box 102
   is typically user-specific and/or subscriber-specific and pre-configured to provide content
   from the server 120, as according to registration with the content provider.
   Box HW
   Set top box 102 in the present embodiment includes a central processing chip/unit (CPU) and
20 a graphics processor chip/unit (GPU) which carries out data stream decoding of incoming
   data received from the content server through the internet. Presently, a single core processor
   is provided, but a dual-core or multiple core processor is also possible. On-board memory
   400 is provided with the CPU, for operating system and application processing, as well as to
   provide a data stream buffer for smooth delivery of audio visual content. Sufficient non
25 volatile flash memory is provided, as well as dynamic random access memory, in order for
   smooth operating of the set top box 102. The processor and the memory are coupled and
   configured to execute stored program instructions, software instructions, and/or perform state
   machine operations that manage, direct, or perform visual and/or audio content management
   operations, communications, telecommunications, or any other application based function in
30 accordance with the present disclosure.
                                                   10

   Set top box 102, in the present embodiment, is configured to operate the open-source
   Androidi"m operating system (OS), which is released by Google Inc. and the Open Handset
   Alliance. As source-code for the operating system is open, the present device manufacturer,
   which is also the applicant for the present application, is able to freely modify and develop
 5 the stock Android OS into a console operating system for the present set top box 102. For the
   present embodiment, a configured user-interface for ease of content selection, interaction,
   input, and/or manipulation as welt as a wide range of applications are designed, to provide
   the user of the set top box 102 with efficient, simplified, and/or enjoyable content (e.g.,
   entertainment)    choice,  selection, presentation,   and   possibly   responsive  interaction.
10 Alternatively, other device operating systems, which provide flexibility in design and
   manufacturer operation, such as the FirefoxTm OS, a Linux-based OS, or any other useable
   operating systems might be used instead.
   Further, in the present embodiment, modifications as to the operation of the OS on the CPU
   architecture have been carried out such as to facilitate smoother data decoding and delivery,
15 and operates in conjunction with a video decoder hardware provided with the GPU, and
   optimized by the present device manufacturer.
   The set top box 102 is also provided with a remote controller communications module, in this
   case a radio frequency receiver or transceiver, and specifically a 2.4 GHz receiver, which
   allows for the set top box 102 to communicate with a provided corresponding remote
20 controller 500 for a user to manipulate content provided and displayed from the set top box
   102 with ease.
   Further, a plurality of input and output ports are provided with the set top box 102, for
   example a Universal Serial Bus port for access and communication with a portable hard disk,
   headphone ports, microphone ports, IEEE 1394 Firewire ports, Secure Digital card slots,
25 video output ports, HDMI input ports, and any other useful or necessary input or output
   connections may also be provided.
   Server
   FIG. 2 illustrates a content distribution network according to the present embodiment.
   Remote content delivery server 200 is hosted on a high performance computing system which
30 is dedicated to run programs and services as a host, to serve remote users through a network.
   Adequate memory and hardware capabilities are provided on the content delivery server 200
                                                 11

   to facilitate requests from multiple users. In the present case, a streamlined server software
   application 202 operating on the computing system provides the operational functionality for
   the content delivery server 200. A backup server, hardware and software, as well as other
   redundant functionalities, may also be provided to operate in the background, and designed to
 5 take over, should issues arise from operating the main server functions.
   Content delivery server 200 includes fast network connections, and the hardware is optimized
   to provide a high communications throughput. The server 200 is intended to be constantly
   connected to the network, such that client-server connectivity is constantly provided.
   Server 200 includes a content reception module 204, where audio and/or visual content such
10 as video stream feeds from a secondary entertainment content provider 206, or a live
   television broadcast stream from a television receiver 208 may be received and redistributed
   through the content delivery server 200. Other forms of entertainment, infotainment, or
   information content may also be received at the content reception module 204 and thereafter
   provided for distribution through the content delivery server 200 to remote clients through the
15 network.
   Delivery of content
   The content reception module 204, as well as other operational modules in the server 200 can
   be implemented in various manners, for instance such as a software component add-on to the
   server application 202. The content reception module 204 can then be executed within the
20 server application 202 for interfacing between other operational modules as well as external
   to the server 200. With regard to the term "module", it is stated that the term refers to the
   particular function or functions performed by the associated processing unit; the "module"
   may or may not correspond to actual electrical circuitry.
25 Content delivery server 200 further includes a content manipulation module 210, which
   receives as an input content from the content reception module 204. Received content is then
   identified and written into memory storage accordingly by the content manipulation module
   210. The stored content is then marked and made available for delivery upon request by a
   client device 240 to the server 200. Content may also be made constantly available by the
30 content manipulation module 210. For example, content from television channels, which
   typically broadcasts an uninterrupted feed, can be received by the content reception module
   204 and provided to the content manipulation module 210, which then stores the content into
                                                  12

   a memory buffer and thereafter makes available the content to an encoder/decoder module
   212 for streaming. Client devices 240 can thereafter simply link up to a stream broadcasted
   by the content delivery server 200 for access to the television channel content.
   Alternatively, content can also be stored by the content manipulation module 210 on memory
 5 within the content delivery server 200 for dedicated access by a client device 240 upon
   request. For example, a high-definition movie is stored on the server, and only upon an
   authenticated request from the client device 240, a stream could be created by the server 200
   for access by the requesting client device 240, for perhaps an unhindered feed by the server
   200. Other forms of content, for example, music and pre-recorded events, can be similarly
10 delivered from the content delivery server 200.
   The encoder/decoder module 212 includes hardware and/or software audio and video
   compression modules which allows for the streamed content to be compactly delivered and
   reduces load on the network connections of the content delivery server. In the present
   embodiment, a software compression module based on the H.264/MPEG-4 advanced video
15 coding standard is used for the preparation of content for over-the-network deliver. This
   allows for a more optimized compression with a lower bandwidth, and without compromise
   on video resolution, thereby leading to an ease of content distribution.
   As mentioned above, the client device 240 including a set top box 102 runs on device
   operating system such as Android which also enables access to third-party applications, for
20 example, an application providing Internet radio functionality, where audio content from
   radio stations broadcasting online can be played; or a news access feed application, which
   accesses the Internet to obtain news feeds which can be displayed thereafter. These third
   party applications also obtain data and information through the Internet connection of the
   client device 240, but data obtained by these third-party applications need not be provided
25 through the content delivery server 200.
   Representative aspects of content, content presentation, and UI
   FIG. 3 illustrates a screen display of a graphical user interface according to an embodiment.
   In particular, FIG. 3 illustrates a home screen of a graphical user interface (GUI) 300. It is
   hereby noted that an inventor of the present application is also an inventor of PCT
30 International Application PCT/SG2012/000122, entitled "An apparatus and method for
                                                  13

   enabling access to a plurality of activities", which is incorporated by reference in its entirety
   in this disclosure.
   Set top box 102 is coupled to the display screen 104 which displays delivered content which
   is manipulated by a user through the provided GUI 300, GUI 300 is rendered by the an
 5 application software riding on top of the operating system running by means of the processor
   of the set top box 102. The home screen is referred to as the default display arrangement of
   the GUI 300, where in no application or content selection has yet been selected and activated
   in response to user input.
   The GUI 300 includes a plurality of options and selections that provide the user with choices
10 in deciding the content to be displayed on screen 104. Selection is made by the user through a
   remote controller 500 which controls at least a cursor or screen option in manipulating the
   GUI 300.
   In the present embodiment, GUI 300 includes a scrolling ticker tape 302 provided at the
   bottom of the screen. Scrolling ticker tape 302 receives data input from an online news feed
15 and reformats the input data into a scrolling news feed. Data may be obtained from a
   dedicated news application in communication with the Internet, or through any other news
   source. In the present embodiment of the GUI 300, the scrolling ticker tape 302 is designed to
   only appear in the main screen, and where no application or content selection has yet been
   selected and activated by the user. Alternatively, the scrolling ticker tape 302 can be arranged
20 to be displayed despite the activation of content or an application. Yet alternatively, the
   scrolling ticker tape 302 can be arranged to be displayed in a content display or an
   application, and be provided with an auto-hide function where the tape 302 appears for a
   short predetermined period of time and thereafter disappears off the screen. The tape 302 can
   be re-displayed upon control via the remote controller 500.
25 In the embodiment, the GUI 300 includes a main selection row 310 providing a plurality of
   objects representing selection options 311-317 available to a user. Selection options 311-317
   in this embodiment represent entertainment content such as movies, television series, and live
   television, applications such as games and office tools, and options such as tools and
   configuration settings. Multiple other selection options may also be provided in other
30 embodiments, and are not limited in number or sub-options derived therefrom.
                                                   14

   In the embodiment, the GUI 300 provides a user with ease of selection by "sliding" the
   selection options horizontally about the main selection row 310 with the remote controller
   500. In this case, the selection options 311-317 are configured to loop around from one end to
   the other when sliding the selection row 310 during the selection of an option. In an
 5 embodiment, there are provided more selection options that that which may be allowed to be
   displayed on a screen. The selection options are then cyclically displayed on the main
   selection row 310 when a user undertakes a choice of selection options.
   Each selection option 311-317 is also provided with at least a subset of options, to be
   displayed on a second selection row 320, when an option 311 is selected. In this embodiment,
10 option 311 is selected by manipulating the selection option 311 into a central position in the
   middle of the selection row 310, and activating thereafter. The selection option 311 is
   indicated to a user as being central by a highlight of the option 311 once the option 311
   moves into the central position of the row 310. Activation is provided by an actuation of an
   "up" button or a "select" button on the remote controller 500, more of which will be
15 described below.
   Activation of the selection option 311 brings up a hidden second row 320 in the GUI 300,
   which provides a plurality of objects representing selection sub-options 311a, 31lb, 31 Ic,
   311 d, and 311 e. Sub-options 311 a-e relate to further choices provided to a user in the
   selection of option 311, for allowing the user more choice to choose from in terms of
20 displayable content. In an example in the present embodiment, selection option 311 relates to
   an option of selecting a movie for viewing on the screen 104. Activating option 311 for
   movies slides up a second row 320 which provides a plurality of options related to various
   categories or genres of movies for assisting a user with choice of selection.
   Selection of any of sub-options 311 a-e on the second selection row 320 is carried out the
25 same way as that of selecting and activating a selection option 311 on the main selection row
   310. In an example, selecting a selection option 311 provides an entertainment option of
   screening a movie, and upon selection of option 311, opens up a second selection row 320
   corresponding to categories of available movies for a user's choice and selection, which
   similarly may be selected and activated by scrolling of sliding the second row 320.
30 In the embodiment, for certain sub-options, there are provided further categorical selection
   auxiliary options 31la(i), 31la(ii) and 31la(iii), on a third selection row 330 that opens up
                                                  15

   upon selection of the relevant sub-option 31 Ia. In the example, the third selection row 330
   opens up to display choices related to titles of Movie #1 311a(i), Movie #2 31la(ii) and
   Movie #3 311 a(iii), which are categorized under the "Latest" category section of sub-option
   3 la.
 5 It may be noted that GUI 300 also provides a background screen 340 which may differ during
   the manipulation of the main selection row 310, the second selection row 320 and/or the third
   selection row 320. Whenever an option in the main selection row 310, the second selection
   row 320 and the third selection row 320 is highlighted in the central selection position, a
   corresponding background screen 340 may be displayed, possibly providing further
10 information or which aesthetically represents the option highlighted.
   FIG. 4 illustrates a schematic representation of program instruction sets corresponding to the
   set top box 102 according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As indicated, memory
   400 is provided in the set top box 102, and accessible with the CPU. Operating system 402 is
   mounted on the memory and designed to run on the hardware provided to allow the
15 functioning of the set top box 102. Memory 400 also includes a host of on-board applications
   404, each application 406, 408 having been installed into the memory 400 of the set top box
    102. In the embodiment, two applications are representatively illustrated as being installed on
   the memory 400, but as many applications as the memory 400 can host may be installed to
   operate on the set top box 102. Modules and applications operating on and from the memory
20 400 cause the processor of the set top box 102 to carry out varying functions as operating
   features of the set top box 102.
   In the embodiment, a movie application 406 is provided as installed on the memory 400 of
   the set top box. Movie application 406 includes a plurality of operating functions which are
   depicted on FIG. 4 as modules carrying out program instruction sets in the schematic
25 framework. Movie application 406 includes a communication module 410, which establishes
   a secure connection, either on its own, or under the purview of an overarching set top box
   communications module (not shown), with a server 200 such as to initiate and host the
   reception of data streams delivered from the server 200. Communication module 410 is
   responsible for client-server communication regarding the movie application 406, as well as
30 any content in relation with the movie application 406 delivered by the server, as well as any
   other communication possibly subsidiary to the movie application 406. In an example, the
   instruction communication module 410 sends out to the server 200 a request for the provision
                                                  16

   of Movie #1 31 la(i). Server 200 in response, carries out an authentication request, which is
   handled by the communication module 410, and when authenticated, begins the streaming of
   content data for Movie #1 over the Internet to set top box 102. The authentication could be a
   simple acknowledgement by the user of set top box 102 in response to an on-screen pop up
 5 message, or user account validation and recordal, or any other type of functional
   authentication.
   Movie application 406 also includes a decoder module 412, which receives a data stream
   from server 200 through communication module 410. The decoder module 412 handles any
   decompression or decoding of the streamed data and prepares the received content for
10 display. A display module 414 is also provided, which obtains the prepared content from
   decoder module 412 and adjusts the content in accordance to user settings, for example,
   preferred resolution of display, upscaling, display size, subtitles, and any other possible user
   preferences in relation to video content display.
   In the embodiment, application 408 can be, by example a simple calculator application which
15 is pre-installed by the supplier of the set top box 102. In the present embodiment, all
   applications come pre-installed, and no access is provided to the user of the set top box 102 to
   install or uninstall applications. Any change in applications need to be requested by the user
   with the delivery service provider who, upon approval, may patch into the set top box 102 to
   carry out installation of approved programs. This is so as to maintain optimum functionality
20 of the set top box 102 by only allowing applications which have been tested and found
   operating smoothly to be provided on the set top box 102.
   In an embodiment, an application installer 416 is provided on the memory 400, the function
   of which is to allow a user or a technician access to the installation of third party applications
   onto the set top box 102. In an embodiment, the application installer 416 is limited to the
25 installation of applications which fall in a white list 418 of approved applications for
   installation.
    A GUI module 420 is also provided in operation on the memory 400, which undertakes all
   content to be output from the set top box 102, in particular, display content generated by the
   OS 402, movie application 406, any on-board applications 404, or any other display content
30 generating application, and propagates the content into display on the screen 104 as part of
   the GUI 300.
                                                   17

   Analytics
   In the present embodiment, a tracker application 430 is hosted on the memory 400 and
   operates as an additional layer over the GUI 300 generated by the GUI module 420. Even as
   GUI module propagates the plurality of rows 310, 320, 330, including the multiple selection
 5 options on each row, in the present embodiment, the tracker application 430 runs in
   concurrence and performs a tracking role on each and every manipulation and selection
   which is carried out by the user.
   Turning to FIG. 3 to describe the operation of the tracking application 430, each selection
   option, sub-option or auxiliary option of the main selection row 310, second selection row
10 320 and the third selection row 330 respectively correlates to a unique identifier which is
   provided to the tracker application 430. As a simple example, the unique identifier can be a 3
   digit identification number, each of the digits of the identification number associated with the
   options on a certain row - the first digit associated to the main selection row 310, the second
   digit associated to the second selection row 320 and the third digit associated to the third
15 selection row 330. In this case, the main selection row 310 has 7 selection options 311-317,
   and each selection option is provided with a corresponding first digit of the 3-digit
   identification number, for example, a movie option 311 would be provided with an identifier
   in a form such as "100". Carrying on with the example, the second selection row 320 relating
   to categories or genres of movies would be provided with a corresponding second digit of the
20 3-digit identification number, where sub-option 311a of the "Latest" category section is
   provided with an identifier in the form of "110". Third selection row 330 would thus be
   provided with a corresponding third digit of the 3-digit identification number, and for
   example, Movie #3 311 a(iii) is provided with a 3-digit identification number such as "113".
   Other identification schemes may of course be possible, and also dependent on the number of
25 selection rows and number of options for selection. For example, the earlier identification
   scheme would have to be expanded to a 4-digit identification number if there were 4 rows, or
   perhaps should there be more than 10 selection options in each row, the simplistic
   identification scheme proposed would have to introduce another layer of perhaps
   hexadecimal identification or any other form of adapting to the provided parameters for
30 identification.
   Returning to FIG. 4, as mentioned, the tracking application 430 monitors the manipulation a
   user makes on during browsing and selection on the options provided on the GUI 300. Each
                                                   18

   time an option on any row is highlighted, in the central position on the row, the unique
   identifier of that option is captured by the tracking application 430 and stored inside a
   tracking log 432 on the memory 400. The tracking application 430 also monitors each time an
   option is chosen for which to open up a sub-selection row (if available), as well as each time
 5 an option is selected for action. Such actions are tracked and logged according inside tracking
   log 432.
   A plethora of further information can be storedtogether with the captured unique identifier,
   for example, the date and time stamp (down to the millisecond parameter), the reference title
   as to the option identification logged, or any other information useful for understanding the
10 data logged.
   As mentioned, the tracking application 430 not only tracks the selected options, but also each
   option as the user manipulates the selection rows. This actually allows the tracking
   application 430 to obtain information as to a user's manipulation patterns and establish trends
   specific to the user, and his tendencies in set top box usage. It can also bring about some
15 insight as to a user's preference, for example in whether a user was deciding between a
   choice of watching a certain movie or watching a TV series, before settling on the TV series.
   Such a function of tracking allows the application 430 to capture not only the user's first
   choice, in this case watching the TV series, but also his possible second choice, in this case
   the movie which he did not end up watching.
20 Memory 400 further hosts a report generator 434 operating in conjunction with the tracking
   application 430 and extracting logged information from the tracking log 432. Report
   generator 434 further includes communication capabilities through perhaps the set top box
   communications module, such that a communications channel is established between the set
   top box 102 and the content server 200, in particular, an analytics module 220 hosted on the
25 content server 200. In the embodiment, the analytics module 220 sends a poll request to the
   user-specific set top box 102, and the report generator 434 operating in the set top box 102.
   The report generator 434 thereafter compiles the collected data for a predetermined time
   period and sends the data onto the analytics module 220 for collating and further analysis.
   The collected data can be later deleted from the tracking log 432, once a confirmation is
30 received back from the analytics module 220 that the sent data is appropriately received.
                                                   19

   The present embodiment calls for analysis to be conducted on logged data obtained from
   tracking application 430 about a user's usage of the set top box 102 within the analysis
   module 220 at the central server 200, instead of locally at the set top box 102. However, it
   may be also interesting for such an application to be provided on the set top box 102, such
 5 that the user is presented with simple extractions of his usage patterns, for example, his
   favorite TV series, his favorite gaming application, number of movies watched, etc. It may
   also be useful to provide a user with access to a password protected tracking log presented in
   an easy to view format for identification of the activities carried out on the set top box for a
   given period.
10 Analysis carried out within the analysis module 220 to further extract information useful for a
   content provider from the data extracted and retrieved from the tracking log 432 through the
   report generator 434. In particular, patterns and trends relating to a user's usage of the set top
   box 102 are sought and multiple algorithms are carried out on the data to achieve such
   projections.
15 Advertising
   In the present embodiment, such trends and preferences are sought such as to provide insight
   as to how best to reach the user as a consumer through set top box based advertising.
   Analysis module 220 on the central server operates to run such analysis and generate for
   example, projections and/or observations on a user's preferred genre of movies, for example
20 a user's favorite actor or actress, a user's favorite movie, a user's preferred genre of TV
   shows, a user's favorite TV series, a user's favorite game or application, etc. Such
   observations and projections are compiled and identified with an identifying reference for the
   registered user of the set top box 102.
   The compiled observations and projections are thereafter provided to an advertising module
25 230 provided on the central server 200. The advertising module 230 includes a stored
   database of digital advertising backgrounds, which can be used in replacing any one
   background screen 340 as provided and projected by the GUI module 420 in propagating a
   GUI 300 that provides a correlated background screen 340 according to an option being
   selected. In particular, server advertising module 230 identifies certain areas and GUI
30 selection options for which a user might be persuaded to follow the leading of specifically
   inserted advertising backgrounds. In the embodiment, the server advertising module 230
   works through a local advertising module 438 hosted on the memory 400 of the set top box.
                                                   20

   Prior to any tracking analysis, the GUI module 420 propagates a GUI 300 which include a set
   of standard pre-determined stock background scenes, of simple design, and proposed to
   aesthetically enhance the background as projected on the display screen 104. With the
   information provided by the tracking application 430, the data compiled and delivered by the
 5 tracking log 432, and analyzed by the analysis module 220. User-tailored advertising
   background scenes can be delivered to the set top box, and particularly to the local
   advertising module 438, such that these user-tailored advertising background scenes can
   replace the stock scenes as initially provided.
   Examples of user-tailored advertising background scenes could be: providing a background
10 scene including a plurality of movies cut outs selectable for viewing, starring a projected
   user's favorite actor or actress; providing a background scene of movie related information,
   trivia, options to purchase paraphernalia related to the movie, based on a projected user's
   favorite movie; or providing a background scene including multiple options for a user to
   access game tips/bints/cheats or purchase game-related toys or paraphernalia based on an
15 observation of a user's favorite game.
   In the present embodiment, the advertisement background scenes are built in conjunction
   with a paid advertiser, i.e. a publisher which developed and is marketing a popular game
   application may be interested in paying for and providing guidance to coming up with a
   background scene which includes options for a user to access game tips/hints/cheats or to
20 purchase game-related toys or paraphernalia. The intention is of course to provide a user with
   the ease of access to features and options which may be of his liking such that the user in turn
   carries out a transaction from which the advertiser benefits.
   The provision such advertising opportunities is enhanced with the set top box used, in
   particular, a set top box which is not limited to only provide relatively fixed entertainment
25 options such as movies and televisions shows, but also provides access to a plurality of other
   networked linked functions, primarily a fully functional internet browser, or a platform based
   applications store. Such multiple access functionalities provide users with multiple
   opportunities to carry out transactions, which of course enhance the attractiveness of such a
   system of content delivery to an advertiser.
30 In other embodiment, projections and observations generated by the analysis module 220 can
   lead to for example, a user's favorite actor or actress, or a user's favorite movie, or a user's
                                                   21

   favorite movie genre. In such a case, the advertising module 230 can determine to instead
   propagate within the GUI 300 of the set top box a new genre in the second row 320, relating
   to movies starring the user's favorite actor or actresses, Or the advertising module 230 can
   cause the GUI 300 to add to auxiliary options in the third selection row 330 movies similar to
 5 the user's favorite movie, and where such movie recommendations are in proximity to the
   user's favorite movie selection option. The advertising module 230 can also provide
   additional content to cause the GUI 300 to enhance the selection of movie options within the
   user's favorite movie genre.
   In another embodiment, should the analysis module 220 present an observation that the
10 present user utilizes the set top box 102 for children related learning services and
   applications, the advertising module 230 may provide multiple options as to beneficial
   interactive storybooks of learning applications. Further, discounts as to purchases might be
   offered for such promotions, which are displayed on background screens during manipulation
   and selection within sub-options of the genre.
15 The above relate to various examples by which the usefulness of understanding a user's
   usages patterns and trends and preferences can be leveraged to not only provide possible
   advertising benefit, but for a delivery service provider to enhance the quality and the
   relevancy of content provided as choice to a user with the server-connected set top box 102.
   The above examples are not limiting and any other logical utilization of such data as provided
20 to the user, the delivery service provider, and advertisers can be realized.
   Remote controller
   FIGs. SA and SB illustrate an embodiment of a remote controller provided as part of a system
   in accordance with the present disclosure, Remote controller 500 is provided in association or
   combination with or as part of the set top box 102, and in particular, to provide a controlling
25 function as to the operation of the set top box 102. Remote controller 500 generally provides
   a user control over GUI 300 in selecting various options for activation, and also provides
   additional input control functionalities in various applications, for example a free-moving
   cursor control function, a text entry function as well as a motion control function.
   Remote controller 500 correlates to an input control module 440 in the memory 400 of the set
30 top box 102. In the present embodiment, the remote controller 500 communicates with the set
   top box 102 by way of radio frequency (RF) communication, and in particular, RF
                                                   22

   communication      at a frequency of 2.4GHz.        Set top box     102   includes  a 2.4GHz
   communications chip for communication with a wireless communications chip (not shown)
   within the remote controller 500, the set top box communications chip capable of establishing
   and maintaining a communications channel with the remote controller 500.
 5 In establishing the channel, and in initializing and synchronizing the remote controller to the
   set top box 102, a service technician initiates a manual pairing request from the remote
   controller 500. Such a request is transmitted from the remote controller 500 as an area
   request, such that all set top boxes within transmission range of the remote controller 500
   would be in receipt of a pairing request from the remote controller 500. Upon receiving such
10 a pairing request, a set top box would similarly provide an open channel ping wherein the
   remote controller 500 requesting pairing is able to note the ping signal and also evaluate the
   signal strength. It would be reasonable to assume that the stronger the signal, the closer and
   less obstructed the set top box would be to the remote controller, which usually pertains to
   the set top box in close proximity to the remote controller 500, and the technician initiating
15 manual pairing. Such a methodology is useful in pairing remote controllers with set top boxes
   in close proximity to each other, for example as provided in hospital wards with multiple
   beds and television sets and accompanying set top boxes.
   After establishing the channel with the set top box in closest proximity and strongest signal
   strength, the remote controller 500 carries out a pairing, and both the remote controller 500
20 and the set top box 102 saves and encrypts the established channel of communication such
   that communication between the paired remote controller 500 and the set top box 102 is not
   interfered with from other remote controllers in the vicinity. Further, the paired components
   are provided with a channel scan and switch functionality, through a channel handling
   module on the wireless communications chip, such that if it is determined that there are too
25 many peripherals in the vicinity operating on the same frequency channel and which may
   pose a risk as to interference in communication, the paired remote controller 500 and set top
   box 102 carry out a scan for the least occupied channel and carry out a paired switch onto the
   channel without affecting remote to box communication.
   In describing various features of the remote controller 500 of the present embodiment, a
30 television power button 504 is provided, which carries a teamingg" function, wherein the
   remote controller 500 can interact with a remote controller for a television set remote
   controller, and "learn" most standard functions associated with the television set. In the
                                                   23

   present embodiment, the button 504 is provided as a power button as such function may be
   all a user would practically require in carrying out his entertainment experience, i.e.
   switching on the television set. Further, as button 504 is a leadingg" button, the button may
   be re-programed by the user for whatever purpose he may desire, for example having the
 5 television power button 504 to operate as the input source selection button for the television
   set. As most device remote controllers communicate via infrared communication, the present
   remote controller 500 is also provided with a concealed infrared transceiver, which provides a
   transmit and a receive function for infrared frequencies, at a top end 506 of the remote
   controller 500, for "learning" as well as normal operation. In other embodiments, an infrared
10 transmitter and an infrared receiver are separately provided.
   In the present embodiment, an auxiliary source button 502 is further provided, to allow the
   remote controller to be used with an auxiliary source device such as a video recorder, a DVD
   player, or an audio player system. As per the television power button 504, the auxiliary
   source button 502 is a "learning" button that is able to determine the modulated infra-red
15 signal transmitted by actuation of the desired button on the auxiliary source device remote
   controller and store it into memory of the remote controller 500.
   Further, the remote controller 500 provides additional functionality, where as many auxiliary
   source device remote controller functionalities may be learnt, as allowed by available buttons
   on the remote controller 500. In such a case, the auxiliary source button 502 is depressed
20 together with another button on the remote controller 500, such that the auxiliary source
   device remote controller functionality is "learnt" and stored as a secondary function of the
   remoter controller 500 button. For example, in order to incorporate the "Play" functionality
   of a DVD player, the auxiliary source button 502 and the play/pause/slow motion button 526
   is depressed while the corresponding "Play" button is actuated on the remote controller of the
25 DVD player. Thereafter, the play/pause/slow motion button 526 includes a secondary
   function which is activated when actuation or depression of the auxiliary source button 502
   switches functionality of the remote controller 500 from that of controlling the set top box
   102 to that of controlling the auxiliary source device or the television set. In the embodiment,
   a light emitting diode (LED), possibly green in color, is provided under the auxiliary device
30 power button 504 such that when activated to control an auxiliary device, the LED lights up.
   Further, as auxiliary device control occurs only occasionally, the remote controller 500 is
   configured to switch back to set top box control after a time out period of 5 seconds from last
                                                  24

   depression of a button after auxiliary control activation. In a further embodiment, a
   maintained depression of the auxiliary device power button 504 causes the auxiliary device to
   activate or be deactivated. In yet another further embodiment, the number of buttons on the
   remote controller 500 are increased to match those as provided on a typical device remote
 5 controller, for example numerical keypad buttons, program up/down toggle buttons, etc.
   In another embodiment, a set top box power button is provided in the place of the auxiliary
   device power button, which provides control over activation and deactivation of the set top
   box 102. Further, an additional functionality may be included into the interface between the
   remote controller 500 and the set top box 102 such that a maintained depression of the set top
10 box power button, for example for 10 seconds, can cause the set top box 102 to undertake a
   system reset task.
   Directional (up, down, left and right) buttons 508 as well as activation button 510 are
   provided centrally in the remote controller 500 for manipulation of GUI 300, or to perform
   typical cursor control as provided on the GUI 300 on screen. Further the directional buttons
15 508 and the activation button 510 are also useful within multiple games and applications for
   control usage. Up and Down volume buttons 512 and 512 are provided to allow a user to
   adjust the volume of media playback or application sound from the set top box 102. Further,
   volume button 514 provides a mute functionality which causes sound signals from the set top
   box 102 to cease being provided to external speakers attached to a display screen or
20 standalone speakers. Further, a LED light, possibly red, can also be provided under the
   volume button 514 to accentuate that the mute function of the remote controller 500 is on.
   Buttons typical to Android OS configurations, such as the Home button 516, the Menu button
   518, the Search button 520, and the Back button 522 are also provided on the remote
   controller 500, for use with the present Android OS of the embodiment. Should a different
25 OS be incorporated, the layout of the remote controller 500 may correspondingly change.
   Media playback buttons, rewind button 524, play/pause/slow motion button 526 and fast
   forward button 528 provide a user with control over playback for media such as movies or
   music or any other portable media deliverable from the set top box 102.
   Remote controller 500 also provides, in the present embodiment, an instant buy button 530,
30 located substantially central on the remote controller 500 and provides the user with a
   function to purchase or activate a selected option. Such a feature allows for better facilitation
                                                 25

   of the tracking feedback based advertising enhancements to the background, where a
   selection can be easily highlighted with the directional buttons 508 and then the instant buy
   button 530 can be used to bring the user directly into interface with the advertiser-paid
   service to register a transaction.
 5 In further embodiments, there may be provided additional buttons 542, 544, 546, for
   preprogrammed features. The programming of such additional buttons takes place prior to the
   deployment of the system 100 and the remote controller 500 into various environments.
   Typically, only administrators would be allowed access to carry out such programming,
   through a proprietary firmware editor which can be plugged into the internal hardware of the
10 remote controller 500, in particular a portion of a circuit board providing communication
   access to a microprocessor chip. The remote controller is programmed such that the
   additional buttons 542, 544, 546, carry out such preprogramed features when actuated. For
   example, if the set top box of the present embodiment is to be provided in a hotel
   environment, the button 542 may be programed to bring up a room service menu on the
15 display, button 544 may be programed to bring up a hotel concierge menu on the display, and
   the button 546 may be programed to dial up a hotel telephone operator, if the remote
   controller should support such a function. Alternatively, if the set top box is provided in, for
   example, a hospital environment, the additional buttons may be programed to bring up a meal
   menu on the display screen for user selection, or an emergency medical assistance contact
20 button. The above simply provide examples of various functions which may be coupled to the
   additional buttons 542, 544, 546, or presently provided buttons on a remote controller of an
   embodiment, and are clearly not intended to limit the scope of such functions to those
   described.
   In the present embodiment, a cursor control function is provided by the remote controller
25 500. Remote controller 500 includes within the shell of the body 532 a gyroscope and an
   accelerator microelectromechanical system, which provides the remote controller 500 with a
   6G cursor control function, handled by a cursor control module. In the present embodiment,
   the cursor is pointer-shaped, not unlike the mouse cursor of a typical personal computer. Such
   a representation is intentional, to allow a user free control with the remote controller 500 not
30 unlike the use of a mouse on a personal computer. Control of the cursor involves waving the
   remote controller to activate the gyroscope and accelerometers, such that moving the remote
   should correspondingly move the on-screen cursor. In the present embodiment, a pointer
                                                   26

   cursor is not displayed or provided when a user is provided with choice based on selection
   options found in the plurality of selection rows. In most cases, control is limited to either by
   directional buttons 508 or by free movement pointer cursor control. This is to reduce
   confusion for the user as to the input protocol. However, if there should be applications in
 5 which it may be useful to have both forms of input, for example, internet browsers, the input
   control module 440 might be programmed for such inclusion.
   Further, a microphone and speaker combination is provided on the remote controller 500,
   such as to provide a telecommunication handset function for the remote controller 500. A
   speaker 534, designed for ear-to-device functionality as a phone earpiece, is included at or
10 near the top of the remote controller 500, and a pair of microphones 536 provided at or near a
   corresponding bottom of the remote controller 500. The microphones 536 and the speaker
   534 are located together on the front side of the remote controller 500 such that a user can
   hold the remote controller to the side of his face like an actual handset. Such a
   telecommunications handset function is useful in this respect of the set top box 102 as the set
15 top box 102 is capable operating telephony applications for which attaching a headset with
   microphone to the set top box 102 may not be practically sound. In another embodiment, the
   speaker 534 includes both an ear piece speaker and a loudspeaker, which may be switchable
   between each other depending on the telecommunication functionality selected.
   As mentioned above, the remote controller 500 communicates with the set top box 102
20 through a 2.4 GHz frequency connection. Such a connection allows for a high speed data
   transfer connection, perhaps under the Wi-Fi-/802.1 1 standard of wireless data transfer, and
   with speeds of up to 36 Mbps, or faster. With such a data connection, data signals
   representing a telephone conversation over the Internet Protocol, or voice over IP (VOIP),
   operated by a software application program running on the set top box, may be delivered
25 back and forth from the set top box 102 to the remote controller 500 to accommodate a
   telephone conversation. Further, the provided data connection can fully support other
   application purposes, such as cursor control, voice recording, audio speaker, vibration
   feedback, camera picture syncing, etc.
   In the present embodiment, the remote controller 500 includes a microbe resistant polymeric
30 shell 532. The microbe resistant polymeric shell 532 includes one or more polymers which
   are impregnated with one or more types of antimicrobial ions. As commonly known, remote
   controllers are in constant contact with various germs and harmful bacteria, especially if an
                                                  27

   area of application of the set top box 102 of the present embodiment is in hospitals. Hospitals
   are commonly believed to be the place one goes for treatment of infection ordisease.
   However, the incidence of nosocomial infections continues to rise. Whilelowered immunity,
   invasive devices, and medications provide the greatest risks ofnosocomial infection, the
 5 surfaces that patients come into contact with also provide arisk of exposure to infectious
   microbes.
   The surface of the remote controller 500 is in contact with various germs and harmful
   bacteria. Byinfusing metal ions during the manufacturing process, concern that the ionswill
   wear off by wear and tear during constant usage is alleviated.
10 In the present embodiment, the microbe resistant polymeric shell 532 includes a synthetic
   organic polymer, which can include such as, for example, lowdensity polyethylene, high
   density polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinylchloride,polystyrene, polyurethane and the
   like and combinations of these. In other embodiments, the polymer can be any other synthetic
   polymer, or non-synthetic polymer, for example, thermoplastics, thermosets, synthetic fibers,
15 andelastomers.     Thermoplastics      can   include,  for   example,  polyethylene,    nylon,
   polystyrene,phenolics, epoxies, vinyls, polypropylene, polamides, polyesters, and the like,
   andcombinations of these. Thermosets can include, for example, phenol-formaldehyde,urea
   formaldehide, melamine resin, polyimides, and the like and combinations of these. In some
   embodiments, one or more or a combination of the above examples of polymers are included
20 in the microbe resistant polymeric shell.
   In embodiments, the microbe resistant shell can be made of non-synthetic polymers, such as,
   but not limited to collagen, chitosan, metal cellulose, and cellulose-based hydrogels, and
   other materials such as, for example, metal, ceramics, hydrogels, and the like and
   combinations of these.
25 In the embodiment, the antimicrobial resistance can be selected from, forexample, resistance
   to viruses, bacteria, fungi and the like and combinations of theseAntimicrobial resistance can
   be provided by metal ions and/or organic acids such as, forexample, silver, gold, copper, zinc,
   cobalt, nickel, zirconium, molybdenum, calcium,lactic acid, combinations of these, alloys
   involving these, and/or the like. Suchantimicrobial resistant compounds or compositions can
30 be impregnated, blended, orotherwise incorporated into one or more types of polymers, for
                                                    28

    instance, prior to aprocess (e.g., an extrusion process) directed to forming one or more
   portions of the remote controller shell 532.
   In another embodiment, the remote controller 500 can include an anti-microbial coating
    provided over the remote controller shell. In other embodiments, the remote controller can
 5 include an antimicrobial impregnated within the polymer and an antimicrobial coating over
   the remote controller. For example, thebody of the handheld device can include an
   antimicrobial impregnated polymer whilebuttons or portions coming into more frequent
   contact with human skin may include anadditional antimicrobial coating.
   In some embodiments, the remote controller may include a touchscreen display. Such a
10 touchscreen display may be coupled to a screen input/output control module and allows a
   user a simplified GUI for user manipulation. In other embodiments, a size-reduced version of
   the displayed video content may be provided on the touchscreen display. In some other
   embodiments, the touchscreen may be provided for cursor control by the user. In such
   embodiments, antimicrobial resistance canbe additionally provided by the inclusion such
15 metal ions and/or organic acids into glassand/or polymer materials used to form or fabricate
   such displays. It is also of note that such described features of the remote controller of the
   present disclosure can be provided for other handheld devices. For example, a microbe
   resistant shell together with further antimicrobial resistance provided on a touchscreen
   display may be provided for a mobile communication device. Further, in the present
20 embodiment, as indicated in FIG. 5B, an alpha-numeric keyboard is provided on the rear 550
   of the remote controller 500. The alpha-numeric keyboard 552 includes a full keyboard (e.g.,
   a QWERTY keyboard) including multiple depressible keys 554 which can represent one or
   more alphabets (e.g., the Latin and/or other alphabet), and secondary function keys such as
   "Shift" and "Fn" which allow for the keys 554 to provide secondary or further functional
25 inputs.
   Such an alpha-numeric keyboard 552 allows a user to provide alpha-numeric input to an
   application operating on the set top box 102, and displaying on the screen 104. In alternative
   to the alpha-numeric keyboard 552, a user may use the cursor driven by the gyroscopic
   accelerometer to select alpha-numeric input from a displayed keyboard.
30 To accommodate the keys 554 of the alpha-numeric keyboard 552, a depressed platform 556
   is provided for which the keys 554 are installed on. The depressed platform 556 is
                                                 29

   accentuated by a deliberate slope upwards to two elevated stands 558 on either side of the
   depressed platform 556. The stands 558 allow for the remote controller 550 to be placed with
   its rear face 550 down on a flat surface, without any detrimental effect to the keys 554 of the
   alpha-numeric keyboard 552. The depressed platform 556 of the remote controller 500 also
 5 provides a convenient hand grip for a user when using the remote controller 500 as a
   telecommunications device, i.e. a phone.
   In another embodiment a remote controller 500 for the system 100 may be without the alpha
   numeric keyboard on the reverse' side of the controller, but may be provided with a keyboard
   sliding out sideways from the base of the remote controller. Such a sliding keyboard may
10 include a full QWERTY keyboard, albeit with reduced key sizes, such as to accommodate the
   entire keyboard on the surface area provided.
   In another embodiment, the remote controller 500 includes a camera device. The provision of
   a camera device is advantageous in conjunction with applications which provide video input,
   for example video-calling applications, or perhaps even to obtain customer-based direct
15 input, Preferably, the remote controller 500 should also include a speaker and a microphone
   to enable audio and visual communication. As an example of a possibly useful application
   with such features, a patient in a hospital bed with a system 100 of the present disclosure, and
   an accompanying remote 500 with a camera, speaker and microphone, could activate a
   conveniently located application, or even be provided with a button shortcut, such that the
20 patient could be put into direct communication with the ward medical station for immediate
   attention.
   In another embodiment, the remote controller includes an audio jack (not shown), provided
   on a side 538 of the body 540 of the controller 500. The provision of an audio jack allows a
   user to plug a set of headphones, which includes over-ear headphones, full sized headphones,
25 in-ear headphones, headsets or any other type of device which facilitates a projection of audio
   for personal consumption, into the remote controller to enhance a user's auditory experience.
   With the wireless data connection as mentioned above, auditory input is very easy duplicated
   or re-channeled from the set top box to the remote controller 500 for a user's consumption.
   Further, the set top box can also receive feedback from a remote controller 500, particularly a
30 feedback module coupled to the audio jack, indicating that a headphone set has been plugged
   into the audio jack, and which also sends a redirect request to the set top box. The set top box
                                                   30

   thereafter redirects sound to the audio jack and headphones, while cutting off audio feed into
   the attached television set.
   Network interaction function
   An intra-network communications module 450 is provided in memory 400. Such an intra
 5 network communications module 450 supervises the communications between within the
   client-server network as illustrated in FIG. 2, but in particular establishes and maintains a
   separate intra-network communication web 250 for dedicated communication between the
   server 200 and various clients 240, the communications web 250 unlike the client-server
   communication stream described earlier between server and client for the delivery of content.
10 The communications web 250 thus includes multiple intra-network communication links 251
   256 connecting the server 200 with each client 240, in particular the server-located intra
   network communications module 250 with the local box top intra-network communications
   module 450, and also connecting each client 240 therewith.
   In the embodiment, the communications web 250 is operating on a separate communications
15 protocol from the server-client content delivery stream, which is usually carried out based on
   the TCP/IP suite of protocols. Communications web 250 instead establishes communications
   on an Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) communications protocol.
   Relying on such a communications backbone allows for near real-time instant messaging
   between clients, running multiple social networking services, various administrative
20 maintenance functions, video and file transfer between clients 240, Voice over IP
   communication between clients and even shared network gaming between clients.
   FIG. 6 illustrates a screen display of a GUI according to another embodiment according to the
   present disclosure. In this embodiment, GUI 600 is over-layed on a movie video display 602
   screened from the set top box 102 and provided by the movie application 406 operating in
25 communication with content delivery server 200 to stream the movie 602 over the Internet. A
   social networking application 460 (FIG. 4) operates concurrently off the memory 400 even
   during the screening of the movie 610.
   Social networking application 460 provides for the user of the set top box 102 to register his
   accounts for various social networking sites, and the overall application consolidates his
30 various accounts and receives feeds and updates from any or all of his registered social
   networking accounts. The user, through various application settings, can also determine how
                                                  31

   his updates from the set top box are to be set up, or how to establish instant messaging
   chatrooms within various social networking accounts. Social networking application 460
   includes a networking module 462, which establishes connectivity between the social
   networking application 460 on the local set top box 102 with communication interfaces,
 5 services, sites, and/or portals of various social networking sites, for example - Facebook 464,
   Google+ 466, and Twitter and/or Weibo 468, so as to maintain connectivity to poll for
   updates or feeds, and/or to provide a user's updates of feeds into the social networking sites.
   Returning to FIG. 6, social networking application 460 generates a status box 610 displayed
   in a bottom comer of the screen 104. Status box 610 provides regular updates and feeds as
10 received from the various social networking sites 464, 466, 468, and as according to settings
   predetermined by the user, displays accordingly within the status box 610. For example, a top
   portion 612 of the status box displays the set top box user's social networking name and a
   small frame is provided to display a user's designated logo or picture or avatar, if any. The
   top portion 612 also provides the present availability status as well as social status of the user.
15 By selecting, for example, on textual display portion 613 of the top portion 612, the user is
   provided with a text entry box for which to provide his present social status update. A status
   feed portion 614 is provided which regularly updates 616, 618 based on received updates
   from the various social networking sites 464, 466, 468. The status feed portion 614 is
   programmed to show only a small number of feeds, but a user is also able to access a history
20 of feeds by scrolling through the incoming feeds.
   Status box 610, in the present embodiment, is designed to carry out an auto-hide function.
   Upon receiving a status update, the status box 610 rises up to display its full size from being
   hidden, and highlights a newly received update 618 for viewing by the user. The previously
   received update 616 is pushed down in the status feed portion 614, until it is hidden from
25 view unless the user intentionally scrolls down in the status feed portion 614 to look for a
   status update. After a predetermined time period, for example 3 seconds, without interaction
   with the status box 610 by the user, the status box 610 automatically carries out its auto-hide
   function and hides itself from display. Interaction by the user with the status box 610 could
   be defined by the moving of the cursor 630 with the paired remote controller 500 to any
30 display portion over the status box 610. It is suggested that the cursor 630 has a similar time
   out period, of for example 5 seconds, so should a cursor time-out over the status box 610,
   thereafter being hidden from view, the status box 610 similarly undertakes its auto-hide
                                                    32

   function and is hidden from display. A "hide" button 620 is also provided for a user to
   temporarily or permanently hide the status box 610 to prevent it from showing further
   updates.
   A chat box 640 is also generated by the social networking application 460 for display on the
 5 screen 104, and overlaying the displayed movie 602. Opening a chat box 640 can be carried
   out in the present embodiment by selecting the small frame displaying the user's designated
   logo or picture or avatar in top portion 610. The chat box 640 thereafter provides a list of
   contacts from which the user can select from to initiate an online messaging session with,
   Alternatively, selecting the display frame of another user from an update in the status box 610
10 also opens up a chat box 640 and initiates an online instant messaging session.
   Within the chat box 640, and once the user has established an instant messaging session, the
   user can proceed to chat with the selected party by typing his message and responses, which
   are displayed in the user chat portion 642, and viewing the incoming messages displayed in
   the received chat portion 644,Textual entry may be provided by a slide-out keyboard as
15 earlier described on the remote controller 500. Alternatively, an application and a Bluetooth
   connection may be provided for connection with a Bluetooth keyboard, or in another scenario
   with a smartphone coupled to the set top box 102 for data input. The chat box 640 has a time
   out auto-hide function similar to that of the status box 610, such that the chat box 640 does
   not remain on screen during periods of inactivity and hindering the user's enjoyment of the
20 movie 602.
   In the embodiment, a two party chat is described. In other embodiments, multiple users can
   be party to a single chat, and provided in a single chat box 640. In yet other embodiments,
   multiple chat boxes of a reduced size may be provided for multiple chats carried out
   concurrently by the user of the set top box 102. In the embodiment, the parties to the chat
25 may be from the same content delivery network operating over the intra-network
   communications web 250. If so, the chat box 640 could open up to various options, for
   example file transfer between parties, creation of polls, concurrent working on data
   workbooks or spreadsheets, video sharing through web camera, or even screen sharing or
   control of the other user.
30 In a further embodiment, even applications which may not be considered social networking
   can be adopted under the networking module 462. For example, pure instant messaging
                                                  33

   applications such as Whatsapp or LINE, which typically require linking to an actual mobile
   telephone number, can be registered and incorporated into communications with the
   networking module 462 such that the displayed chat box 640 can be user to host a chat on
   Whatsapp. The communication web 250 and the networking module 462 thus provides a user
 5 of the set top box 102 convenience and inter-operability integration of several various
   functions, all displayable on a large screen display, and in the comfort of his own sofa.
   Additional aspects of remote controllers and social media integration / communication
   As indicated above, in various embodiments systems and methods in accordance with the
   present disclosure integrate the presentation of informative, entertainment, and/or other
10 content by the display screen 104 with social networking / media communication.               Such
   social media communication can be initiated by a user on a dynamic or real-time basis in
   response to content that is being presented on the display screen 104. The remote controller
   500 can include one or more user selectable buttons or input elements that facilitate or enable
   such social media integration and communication.
15 FIGs. SC and SD show an embodiment of a remote controller 500 according to a further
   embodiment of the present disclosure. In an embodiment, the remote controller 500 includes
   at least one social media communication button 580, referred to hereafter as a share button
   580. In the embodiment shown in FIGs. 5C and 5D, the remote controller 500 includes a
   share button 580 on each of its front and back sides. During the presentation of content (e.g.,
20 informational / informative content, a movie, a television program, a game, or another type of
   content) on the display screen 104, in response to user selection of the share button 580, the
   GUI 300 presents the user with a social media sharing interface, which the user can navigate
   (e.g., direct remote controller input to) for selecting a particular social media service to which
   social media content is to be communicated, and communicate social media content thereto.
25 The share button 580 conveys a distinct or distinctive visual appearance, such as by way of a
   share symbol that the share button 580 carries.          Representative aspects of social media
   content communication associated with user selection of the share button 580 are described in
   detail hereafter.
   In other embodiments, a remote controller 500 can be implemented by way of a portable /
30 handheld / mobile computing / communication device (hereafter mobile device), such as a
   mobile phone / smartphone, a tablet computing device, or a phablet computing device (e.g., a
   mobile phone / tablet hybrid) in which a remote controller application program (e.g., a
                                                    34

   downloadable app) resides. When program instructions of this remote controller application
   program are executed by a processing unit of the mobile device, the mobile device visually or
   graphically presents a plurality of remote controller input elements as part of the mobile
   device's user interface. Such remote controller input elements can be presented by way of a
 5 touch-screen display, in a manner readily understood by one having ordinary skill in the
   relevant art. The mobile device's touch screen display can present as graphical buttons some
   or all of the buttons carried by a remote controller 500 described above with reference to
   FIGs. 5B - 5C, including at least one social media communication / share button 580. The
   mobile device can thus function as a remote controller 500 for communicating with the set
10 top box 102 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. In a representative
   implementation, the mobile device's remote controller application program is based on,
   includes, or is a commercially available app named "Vodoke Ctrl" (Vodoke Private Limited,
   Singapore) that is downloadable from the Google Play store (Google Inc., Mountain View,
   CA USA).
15 FIG. 7 shows a representative home screen presented or presentable by the GUI 300 in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.         In an embodiment, the home
   screen can include user-selectable a settings option. User selection of the settings option by
   way of the remote controller 500 can result in the GUI 300 presenting a settings interface on
   the display screen 104, for instance, in a manner indicated in FIG. 8A. The settings interface
20 can include a user-selectable social media accounts option. User selection of the social media
   accounts option can result in the GUI 300 presenting a social media accounts interface, for
   instance, in a manner indicated in FIG. 8B. By way of directing selections and input (e.g.,
   textual input) to the social media accounts interface using the remote controller 500, the user
   can log in or log out of one or more social media accounts, eg., a Facebook account, a
25 Twitter account, and/or a Weibo account.        In some embodiments in which the remote
   controller 500 is implemented as a mobile device such as a mobile phone / smartphone, if the
   log in details for one or more social media accounts are stored on the user's mobile device,
   the mobile device can communicate such log in details to the set top box 102, for instance,
   either automatically or in response to user selection of a graphical button presented by their
30 mobile device's touch screen display.
   In various embodiments, the GUI 300 transitions the home screen to a screen saver mode or
   sleep mode in the event that (a) no user-selected informative or entertainment content (e.g., a
                                                  35

   movie, a television program, or an application such as a game) is currently being presented
   on the display screen 104, and (b) no user input has been received by way of the remote
   controller 500 for at least a predetermined amount of time (e.g., more than 10, 15, or 20
   minutes, which can be user-selectable / adjustable). In some embodiments, in response to or
 5 in association with a social media log in event (e.g., the user logging into their Facebook
   account), the system retrieves or receives particular user-published or user-indicated content
   (e.g., user images and/or user videos) from the user's social media account (e.g., the user's
   profile space), and presents such user-published or user-indicated content on the display
   screen 104 during the screen saver mode.       For instance, in the event that the user has a
10 catalogue of images stored in their Facebook account (e.g., corresponding to their Facebook
   Wall), the system can retrieve one or more images (e.g., in response to user selection(s)
   directed to the remote controller 500) from the user's Facebook account, and present a
   fotoframe including the retrieved images(s) on the display screen 104 (e.g., as wallpaper or a
   slideshow). FIG. 9 shows a representative example of a digital photograph that the system
15 has retrieved from a user's Facebook Wall following user log in to their Facebook account,
   and which is presented in a fotoframe on the display screen 104 while the GUI 300 and/or
   display screen remain in screen saver mode. Furthermore, in some embodiments the system
   can retrieve additional or other types of user-published or user-indicated content available or
   accessible from the user's social media account(s), such as one or more data files including
20 audio, graphics, animation, icon, text, and/or other content. While in the screen saver mode,
   the system can present or output retrieved or received content by way of the display device
   104 and/or a set of speakers, in accordance with the nature of the retrieved content.
   In addition or as an alternative to the foregoing, in a number of embodiments in which the
25 remote controller 500 is implemented by way of the remote controller application executing
   on the user's mobile device, the user's mobile device can communicate visual and/or audio
   content stored thereon or accessible thereto (e.g., one or more image files, video files, audio
   files, graphics files, animation files, icon / emoticon files, text files, web page links,
   etc.. stored on / accessible to the mobile device) to the set top box 102.     While in screen
30 saver mode, the set top box 102 can present or output such content that was retrieved or
   received from the user's mobile device, in a manner analogous to that described above. The
   GUI's settings interface can include a screen saver mode settings interface and/or a mobile
                                                  36

   device content transfer interface to facilitate such content communication between the remote
   controller application executing on the user's mobile device and the set top box 102.
   Further to the foregoing, in certain embodiments, the set top box 102 and/or the content
   delivery server 200 can access, store, or provide one or more types of system available screen
 5 saver mode content (e.g., preprogrammed / predetermined / system provided content) that can
   be available for user selection or customization from a screen saver mode settings interface.
   Such screen saver mode content can include one or more types of visual and/or audio content
   such as that indicated above, and in specific embodiments can further include one or more
   types of informative / entertainment content, such as a visual ticker for one or more
10 information feeds corresponding to news, company share prices or other financial instrument
   prices, or other information depending upon user selection(s) or choice(s). Thus, the system
   can provide a number of user selectable screen saver mode content choices corresponding to
   system provided screen saver mode content; receive user input from the remote controller
   identifying particular system provided screen saver mode content to be presented on the
15 display device during screen saver mode; and present on the display device during screen
   saver mode such particular system provided screen saver mode content.
   During the presentation of informative, entertainment, or other content to the user by way of
   the display screen 104, the GUI 300 remains responsive to user selection of the share button
   580. In several embodiments, the GUI 300 can generate or output a share symbol / icon that
20 is presented or presentable on the display screen 104 while the user views particular types of
   content (e.g., informative or entertainment content) presented on the display screen 104. For
   instance, FIG. IOA shows representative informative content corresponding to hotel
   accommodations presented to the user on the display screen 104. During the presentation of
   such informative content, the GUI 300 provides a user-selectable share option (e.g., a visual
25 share symbol / icon) on the display screen 104,
   Following user selection of the remote controller's share button 580 during the presentation
   of informative or entertainment content on the display screen 104, or equivalently, user
   selection of the displayed share option during the display screen's presentation of content, the
   GUI 300      provides   at least one user-selectable social media response / remark /
30 communication / sharing / feedback option on the display screen 104, for instance, in a
   manner indicated in FIG. 10B.           Such user-selectable social media response options
   correspond to a set of social media accounts into which the user has logged in (or may log
                                                    37

   in), and to which the system can communicate, direct, or share one or more user responses,
   comments, remarks, posts, or feedback relating to the informative or entertainment content
   presented on the display screen 104 by way of user selections or input directed to the remote
   controller 500. In the representative embodiment shown in FIG. 10B, three user-selectable
 5 social media response options are shown, namely, a Facebook response option; a Twitter
   response option; and a Weibo response option.
   Following user selection of a given social media response option by way of the remote
   controller 500, the GUI 300 provides an appropriate type of social media communication,
   posting, or feedback interface to the user on the display screen 104, by which the user can
10 select and/or input one or more types of responses, comments, remarks, posts, or feedback to
   be communicated to the social media account under consideration.                Depending upon
   embodiment details, a social media response, comment, remark, post, or feedback can include
   user selection and/or input of (a) a "like," "thumbs-up," "thumbs down," or other type of
   categorical user response indicator (e.g., which can be commonly associated with a social
15 network service under consideration); (b) one or more icons / emoticons; (c) text; (d) a set of
   images; (e) graphics; (f) one or more animations; (g) audio; and/or (h) one or more videos.
   After receiving the user's social media response, comment, remark, post, or feedback, the
   system shares, communicates, or submits the user's response, comment, remark, post, or
   feedback to the appropriate social media account. In a number of embodiments in which the
20 remote controller 500 includes a microphone and/or an image / video capture device (e.g., a
   camera), a social media response that includes audio and/or video, respectively, can be
   captured from the user and/or others in the user's environment by way of user interaction
   with the remote controller 500. Such a remote controller 500 can be implemented by way of
   a dedicated remote controller 500 or a remote controller application executing on the user's
25 mobile device, in a manner analogous or identical to that described above. Additionally or
   alternatively, in an embodiment in which the remote controller 500 is implemented by way of
   the user's mobile device, user selection of one or more icons / emoticons, image files,
   graphics or animation files, video files, audio files, and/or text files can occur by way of user
   selection of or browsing through particular files stored on or accessible to the user's mobile
30 device.
   In various embodiments, the system submits a user's social media response, comment,
   remark, post, or feedback to the social media account under consideration in accordance with
                                                  38

   any required data size and/or format constraints associated with the social media account. In
   some embodiments, the system can automatically submit multiple successive or sequential
   social media responses, comments, remarks, posts, or feedback communications to the social
   media account when the user's response, comment, remark, post, or feedback exceeds a data
 5 size limitation for a single submission corresponding to the social media account.
   The GUI 300 also presents associated social media communication submission information
   on the display screen 104. For instance, FIG. I0C shows user selection of a Facebook "like"
   option, which corresponds to particular hotel accommodations currently presented on the
   display screen 104; FIG. IOD shows a first status box indicating that the user's "like" is being
10 submitted to Facebook; and FIG. 10E shows a second status box indicating that the user's
   "like" has been posted on Facebook.
   Additionally or alternatively, if the user selects the Twitter response option shown in FIG,
   lOB, the system undertakes a Twitter posting corresponding to the informative or
   entertainment content currently presented on the display screen. Such a posting can include
15 or be a predetermined, user-customizable, or user input message, comment, remark, or post
   (e.g., which has data size and/or format constraints or limitations associated with the social
   media service or account currently under consideration). FIG. 1OF shows a third status box
   indicating that Twitter post submission is in progress; and FIG. IOG shows a fourth status
   box indicating that the Twitter post has been successfully posted.
20 Similar or analogous social media communication, sharing, response, or feedback processes
   or events can occur during system presentation of essentially any type of content to the user
   by way of the display screen 104 and/or a set of speakers. Such content can include a movie;
   a pre-recorded or live television program (e.g., a cable or public network television program
   presented in accordance with a regular cable or public network programming schedule,
25 respectively); an application such as a game, an instructional / learning application, or a map
   application corresponding to the user's geolocation or another geolocation (where a
   geolocation can be indicated by a physical address and/or a set of geospatial coordinates such
   as GPS coordinates on a map presented by the display device 104, which possibly indicates
   thereon one or more types of street, business, entertainment, public institution, public
30 transportation, and/or other locations in the vicinity of the geolocation under consideration);
   information on a web page or a portion thereof; facilities / accommodation information;
   travel information (e.g., airport / airline information); or other content.
                                                    39

   For instance, FIG. I IA shows a representative manner in which the GUI 300 can present
   portions of a movie on the display screen 104, along with a share symbol / icon; and FIG.
    1B shows a representative set of user-selectable social media response options (e.g.,
   Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo) that the GUI 300 presents to the user in association with or
 5 during display screen presentation of the movie (e.g., as the movie continues to play, or while
   the movie is paused), such that the user can communicate or share particular types of remarks
   / comments / feedback about the movie to one or more social media accounts corresponding
   to the social media response options.
   Analogously, FIG. 12A shows a representative manner in which the GUI 300 can present
10 portions of a television program (e.g., a live television program) on the display screen 104,
   along with a share symbol / icon; and FIG. 12B shows a representative set of user-selectable
   social media response options (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo) that the GUI 300 presents
   to the user in association with or during presentation of the television program, such that the
   user can communicate or share particular types of remarks / comments / feedback about the
15 television program to one or more social media accounts corresponding to the social media
   response options, on a dynamic or concurrent basis with respect to the television program's
   presentation on the display screen 104.
   Further analogously, FIG. 13A shows a representative manner in which the GUI 300 can
   present portions of a game on the display screen 104. In response to user selection of the
20 share button 580, the GUI 300 also presents one or more user-selectable social media
   response options on the display screen 300 (e.g., during game play, or while the game is
   paused). For instance, FIG. 13B shows a representative set of user-selectable social media
   response options (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, and Weibo) that the GUI 300 presents to the user
   in association with presentation of a representative game (e.g., Angry Birds Rio), such that
25 the user can communicate or share particular types of remarks / comments / feedback about
   the game to one or more user social media accounts corresponding to such social media
   response options.
   As previously indicated, the GUI 300 provides a visual interface by which a user can log into
   and log out of one or more social media accounts.        In various embodiments, the system
30 performs housekeeping operations that automatically delete and/or wipe (e.g., securely
   delete) the user's account information for a particular social media account when the user
   logs out of that social media account.         Additionally, the system can perform such
                                                 40

   housekeeping operations to automatically delete and/or wipe (e.g., securely delete) the user's
   account information for all social media accounts into which the user had logged in when a
   user check out or de-registration event occurs, such as when a user checks out of user
   accommodations (e.g., a hotel, a hospital or health / age care facility, a rented condominium,
 5 or another type of facility in which the user temporarily resides, such as an oil rig or a mining
   camp) in which portions of the system (including display screens 104, set-top boxes 102, and
   remote controllers 500) are deployed in rooms or lodging areas of such accommodations.
   Aspects of particular embodiments of the present disclosure address at least one aspect,
10 problem, limitation, and/or disadvantage associated with existing entertainment content
   communication systems. While features, aspects, and/or advantages associated with certain
   embodiments have been described in the disclosure, other embodiments may also exhibit
   such features, aspects, and/or advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit
   such features, aspects, and/or advantages to fall within the scope of the disclosure. It will be
15 appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art that several of the above-disclosed
   systems, components, processes, or alternatives thereof, may be desirably combined into
   other different systems, components, processes, and/or applications. In addition, various
   modifications, alterations, and/or improvements may be made to various embodiments of the
   present disclosure.    Such different systems, components, processes and/or modifications,
20 alterations, and/or improvements thereto are encompassed by the scope of the present
   disclosure.
                                                   41

   Claims
   1. A method for network communication of social media content generated by a user while
   informative and/or entertainment content is presented to the user, the method comprising:
 5     providing a display device;
       providing a set top box coupled to a remote content server, the remote content server
           configured for selectively communicating with the set top box by way of a computer
           network, the set top box configured to control the presentation of content on the
           display device;
10     providing a remote controller carrying a plurality of user selectable input elements and
           configured for communicating with the set top box in response to receiving user input
           directed to a Graphical User Interface (GUI) presented on the display device;
       presenting the content on the display device by way of the set top box;
       during the presentation of the content on the display device, receiving by way of the
15         remote controller user input corresponding to user sharing of a user social media
           response to the content presented on the display device;
       presenting a social media sharing interface on the display device during the presentation
           of the content on the display device or while the presentation of the content on the
           display device is paused, the social media sharing interface corresponding to a set of
20         social media services;
       receiving by way of the remote controller the user's social media response to the content
           presented on the display device; and
       automatically communicating by way of the set top box the user's social media response
           to a user social media account associated with the set of social media services.
25
   2. The method of claim 1, wherein the content presented on the display device comprises
   informational and/or entertainment content.
   3. The method of claim 2, wherein the content presented on the display device comprises
30 images, graphics, animations, video, audio, and/or text.
   4. The method of claim 2, wherein the content presented on the display device corresponds
   to one of user accommodations, a movie, a television program, and a game application.
                                                  42

   5. The method of claim 1, wherein the user's social media response to the content presented
   on the display device comprises one of a predetermined, user-customizable, or user-input
   message, comment, remark, post, or feedback directed to the user social media account.
 5 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the user's social media response to the content presented
   on the display device comprises a "like," "thumbs-up," or "thumbs down" indicator.
   7. The method of claim 5, wherein the user's social media response to the content presented
   on the display device comprises a set of icons, a set of emoticons, text, a set of images,
10 graphics, a set of animations, a set of videos, and/or audio.
   8. The method of claim 1, wherein the social media sharing interface displays at least one
   social media response option available to the user, each displayed social media response
   option corresponding to a social media service within the set of social media services for
15 which the user is logged in or to which the user can log in to a corresponding social media
   account.
   9. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting a share symbol or icon on the
   display device during display device presentation of the content on the display device,
20
    10. The method of claim 9, wherein receiving by way of the remote controller user input
   corresponding to user sharing of the user's social media response comprises receiving user
   input directed to user selection of the share symbol or icon presented on the display device.
25  11. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of user selectable input elements carried by
   the remote controller includes a social media sharing input element.
    12. The method of claim 10, wherein receiving by way of the remote controller user input
   corresponding to user sharing of the user's social media response comprises receiving user
30 input selecting the social media sharing input element carried by the remote controller.
    13. The method of claim 1, wherein the social media sharing interface displays a set of user
   selectable social media response options, each social media response option corresponding to
   a social media service with which the user has a social media account.
                                                   43

   14. The method of claim I, further comprising performing by way of the set top box a set of
   log in operations that log the user into at least one social media account provided by the set of
   social media services.
 5
   15. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
       automatically retrieving a set of images from the at least one social media account in
            association with a user log in event directed to the at least one social media account;
            and
10     presenting on the display device the set of images retrieved from the at least one social
            media account as part of a screen saver mode.
   16. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
       retrieving or receiving a set of files comprising at least one of a set of icon files, a set
15          image files, a set of graphics files, a set of animation files, a set of video files, and a
            set of audio files from at least one of the at least one social media account and a
            mobile device provided by the user; and
       presenting by way of communication between the set top box and the display device
            content within the set of files during a screen saver mode.
20
   17. The method of claim 14, further comprising:
       providing by way of the set top box a set of user selectable screen saver mode content
            choices corresponding to available screen saver mode content, the available screen
            saver mode content comprising at least one of a set of image files, a set of graphics
25          files, a set of animation files, a set of video files, a set of audio files, and an
            information ticker;
       receiving user input from the remote controller identifying one or more screen saver
            mode content choices corresponding to particular screen saver mode content within
            the available screen saver mode content to be presented on the display device during
30          screen saver mode; and
       presenting by way of communication between the set top box and the display device the
            particular screen saver mode content during screen saver mode.
                                                    44

   18. The method of claim 14, further comprising performing housekeeping operations that
   securely delete user social media account information from the set top box.
   19.    The method of claim 18, wherein the housekeeping operations are automatically
 5 performed in response to the user logging out of a social media account within the set of
   social media accounts.
   20.    The method of claim 18, wherein the housekeeping operations are automatically
   performed in response to a de-registration event when the user checks out of user
10 accommodations.
   21.   A system for network communication of social media content generated by a user while
   the user views informative and/or entertainment content, the system comprising
       a display device;
15     a remote controller carrying a plurality of user input elements;
       a remote content server from which content is accessible, the remote content server
           coupled to a computer network;
       a set top box coupled to the display device and the remote content server and configured
           for communication with the remote controller, the set top box configured for:
20         presenting a graphical user interface (GUI) on the display device, the GUI responsive
               to user input received by the remote controller;
           managing the presentation of content on the display device;
           presenting a social media sharing interface on the display device during the
               presentation of the content on the display device or while the presentation of the
25             content on the display device is paused, the social media sharing interface
               corresponding to a set of social media services;
           receiving by way of the remote controller user input corresponding to user sharing of
               a user social media response to the content presented on the display device; and
           automatically communicating by way of the set top box the user's social media
30             response to a user social media account associated with the set of social media
               services.
   22.    The system of claim 21, wherein the user's social media response to the content
   presented on the display device comprises one of a predetermined, user-customizable, or
                                                   45

   user-input message, comment, remark, post, or feedback directed to the user social media
    account.
   23.    The system of claim 21, wherein the user's social media response to the content
 5 presented on the display device comprises a "like," "thumbs-up," or "thumbs down"
   indicator.
   24.    The system of claim 21, wherein the user's social media response to the content
   presented on the display device comprises a set of icons, a set of emoticons, text, a set of
10 images, graphics, a set of animations, a set of videos, and/or audio.
   25. The system of claim 21, wherein the GUI comprises a social media accounts interface
   that can receive remote controller input for logging the user into or logging the user out of a
   set of user social media accounts corresponding to the set of social media services.
15
   26. The system of claim 21, wherein the GUI presents a user selectable share symbol or icon
   on the display device during display device presentation of content on the display device.
   27.   The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of user input elements carried by the
20 remote includes at least one user selectable social media sharing input element.
   28. The system of claim 21, wherein the at least one user selectable social media sharing
   input element comprises a first social media sharing input element carried by a first side of
   the remote controller, and a second social media sharing input element carried by a second
25 side of the remote controller distinct from the first side of the remote controller.
   29. The system of claim 21, wherein the GUI includes a screen saver mode, and wherein the
   set top box is further configured for:
       automatically retrieving a set of images from a social media account in association with a
30         user log in event directed to the social media account; and
       presenting on the display device the set of images retrieved from the social media account
           as part of the screen saver mode.
                                                   46

   24. The system of claim 21, wherein the GUI includes a screen saver mode, and wherein the
   set top box is configured for:
       retrieving or receiving a set of files comprising at least one of a set of image files, a set of
            graphics files, a set of animation files, a set of video files, and a set of audio files from
 5          at least one of the social media account and a mobile device provided by the user; and
        presenting by way of communication between the set top box and the display device the
            set of files during the screen saver mode.
   25. The system of claim 21, wherein the GUI includes a screen saver mode, and wherein the
10 set top box is further configured for:
        providing a set of user selectable screen saver mode content choices corresponding to
            available screen saver mode content, the available screen saver mode content
            comprising at least one of a set of image files, a set of graphics files, a set of
            animation files, a set of video files, a set of audio files, and an information ticker;
15     receiving user input from the remote controller identifying one or more screen saver
            mode content choices corresponding to particular screen saver mode content within
            the available screen saver mode content to be presented on the display device during
            screen saver mode; and
       presenting on display device during screen saver mode the particular screens saver mode
20          content.
   26. The system of claim 21, wherein the set top box is further configured for:
        storing user social media account log in details; and
        automatically securely deleting the user social media account log in details in response to
25          a user social media account log out event or a user de-registration event
            corresponding to user check out from user accommodations.
                                                      47

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
