 Device and software for an HDMI female to male adapter, with an LED
dot matrix and providing and hardware drivers to interface with it.
Abstract
The disclosed adapter is an HDMI female to male adapter with an LED dot matrix built into
the casing of casing of the female HDMI port. To prevent theft of the device, the casing also
has an eye loop constructed into the bottom of the casing of the female HDMI port, such
that it could be fastened to other objects, or even adjacent cords/devices.
[DOCUMENT TITLE]                                1                                  ELLIOTT SPIRA

 Device and software for an HDMI female to male adapter, with an LED
dot matrix and providing and hardware drivers to interface with it.
Description
HDMI is a popular proprietary interface for the transmission of uncompressed video and
audio data. what makes this interface special is the addition of pins for the supply of 5V
power and an HDMI Ethernet Channel (HEC). These allow the HDMI to power and
communicate with peripheral devices, such as any device matching the invention described
in this patent application.
This invention has been specifically devised to provide a female to male HDMI adapter that
contains a simple, cheap and effective display to append to an HDMI connector. It also
specifies hardware drivers through which one could communicate with this display.
A device in accordance with this application comprises of a cable adapter from female HDMI
to male HDMI, which has an LED array on the upwards face. On the downwards face, there
is a small eye, through which a cable tie or some other fixture could be used to secure the
connection to the HDMI cord, preventing theft.
The interfacing with the device will be possible through hardware drivers built for the
operating system of the machines that the device is attached to. These drivers
communicate with the device over the pins defined in the HDMI version 2.1 interface.
The invention may be better understood with reference to illustrations of embodiments of
the invention, in which:
Figure 1 is the bird's eye view of the adapter,
Figure 2 is the view of the adapter from the base, exposing the eye through which securing
cables can be fed,
Figure 3 is a close up bird's eye view of the LED array, and
Figure 4 is a view of the two adapter ports side by side if the cord of the adapter was bent in
a U-shape.
The following components can be observed in the diagram:
The female HDMI port, at numbers 1, 4 and 8,
The male HDMI plug, at numbers 2, 5 and 9,
The LED display, at number 3 and close up as the whole of Figure 3, with an LED labelled at
number 7, and
The security eye at number 6.
[DOCUMENT TITLE]                                                                     ELLIOTT SPIRA

Device and software for an HDMI female to male adapter, with an LED
dot matrix and providing and hardware drivers to interface with it.
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A HDMI (Type A)female to HDMI (Type A) male adapter with an LED dot matrix
        mounted on the female port casing and a security eye on the underside of the
        female port casing.
    2. The adapter as specified in Claim 1 but where the male HDMI plug is a Type B
        connector (Dual Link).
    3. The adapter as specified in Claim 1 but where the male HDMI plug is a Type C
        connector (Mini).
    4. The adapter as specified in Claim 1 but where the male HDMI plug is a Type D
        connector (Micro).
    5. The adapter as specified in Claim 1 but where the male plug is a USB-C connector.
[DOCUMENT TITLE]                               1                                 ELLIOTT SPIRA

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
