ABSTRACT with Fig 1
A wheel cover 10 fitted over a wheel hub region 11, the cover 10 having a cylindrical cover body
12 surrounding the wheel hub region and being securable using spaced fasteners 13, 14 after
being position as shown, the cover body has an outer peripheral region 15 and there is a
provided a removable front 16 extending across the cover body.

/0
                                                   1
                                     A WHEEL MOTOR COVER
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] THIS INVENTION relates to a wheel motor cover or the like used on heavy equipment in
mining and land moving operations in earthworks and the like.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Wheel motor covers are used on heavy equipment and surround the wheel hub. Wheel
motor covers comprises a hub facing opening and a disc, cylindrical or dome shaped body that
surrounds the wheel motor when the cover is fitted. Often vents are provided in the side of the
cover to allow cooling air to be vented.
[0003] US Patent 4,760,891 to Moss describes a vented disc type flexible cover with a
peripheral springform ring and a latch that closes the ring around a flange on the hub to secure
the cover in place. The disc has circumferentially spaced vents asdn each vent has a protective
cover.
[0004] US Design Patent D370,651 to Jarrell illustrates a wheel hub cover for industrial vehicles
where a rigid flanged ring has a flexible fabric cover fitted to it. The cover effectively has
diametrically opposed vent ends. The cover has a cylindrical base fitted to the ring and a side
wall that maintains the cylindrical form up to an end wall on opposite sides where vents are
located, it has a complex curved end wall downwardly curved between its top at the vent ends
and then curved again down the sides between the vents ends.
[0005] US Patent 5,897,172 to Jarrell describes in the section headed "Description of the
Related Art" a large number of various wheel covers and hub cap arrangements subject of the
prior art at that time in 1999. Moss is one of these. Jareel describes flexible canvas cover fitted
by a rigid annular adapter being an annular extension ring, the ring has an outer circular lip and
an inner circular lip. A cloth cap has an elastic hem which is a slip fit over the outer lip for secure

                                                    2
attachment of the cap to the annular ring. The cap has an annular section which forms a
sidewall and a disc like top section which extends across the annular section. Vent windows are
provided in the side wall. Attachment clamps are provided around the ring in order to attach the
cover to the wheel.
[0006] Australian Patent 764585 to D.V. Logic describes a cylindrical flexible wheel cover which
like Jarrell uses the same type of annular ring with spaced clamps and single piece annular bag
which fits over the ring. An annular wall section fits over a lip on the ring. D.V. Logic uses a strap
which can be tightened inboard of the lip. As an alternative to the one piece bag an annular wall
section has a detachable circular outer fabric cover which can be fitted to the annular wall
section as an alternative to a one piece cover. The annular wall section has an outer circular rod
to provide support so that the annular section holds its shape while a hook and loop type
fastener tape runs around the outer edge of the annular wall section. The fabric cover is like a
lid in so far as it has a peripheral circular flange which has the other half of the hook and loop
type fastener on it inside which overlays the other half when the lid section is put on.
[0007] Australian Patent 2012211445 to D.V. Logic describes an improved flexible wheel motor
cover of the type described in the '585 patent having concealed fasteners inside a ring and a
service opening for access to the wheel motor without removing the whole cover and should it
be desirable to remove the whole cover the concealed fasteners may also be accessed through
the service opening.
[0008] Australian Patent 2013100300 is a divisional of 201221145 and is directed to a flexible
wheel motor cover with a service opening in the outer wall.
[0009] The present invention concerns improvements that enable inspection of and work upon
the vehicle inside the wheel motor cover without removal of the cover from the hub. This in itself
is not new as the whole outer cover was removable in the '585 patent and there is the service
opening in the '445 patent.
[0010] It is clear that the art of wheel covers is a very well developed art. The form of assembly
is relatively simple employing a round body with some form of attachment and this basic form

                                                   3
has been used for many years. In the case of flexible units they can be made and usually are
with a supporting frame which is connected about the wheel hub and other parts are added to
complete the assembly. Rigid units are also nown which a simple domes that have direct
attachment. Wheel covers could be described as a "crowded art" in the sense that the basic
form is very well known and improvements in the field have long been thought to have peaked.
Even though these are well known small increments can give rise to unexpected outcomes. The
present invention arises in this environment where what might otherwise be seen as a small
advance, in hindsight, in fact arises where the prevailing thinking is that no advance is possible,
that all avenues for development have been tried, and that all scope for invention has been
exhausted.
[0011] The present invention arises through the inventor exercising independent thinking, there
being no particular problem or difficulty with existing wheel motor covers but applicant has
devised a useful alternative to the prior art with an object being to at least provide the public with
a useful alternative.
OUTLINE
[0012] In one aspect therefore the present invention resides in a wheel motor cover to fit over a
wheel hub region and having a cover body adapted to surround the wheel hub region and
extend away from the wheel hub region, the cover body having an outer peripheral margin
extending around the cover body, a removable front extending across the cover body, the
removable front having a peripheral edge, the peripheral edge of the front and the outer
peripheral margin defining therebetween a juncture such that upon removal of the front,
substantially the whole of the wheel motor hub region is exposed for access across substantially
the whole of the wheel motor cover. Herein "substantially the whole" means enough space for a
service technician or mechanic to comfortably access brake calipers that are nearer to the
outside of the wheel hub. In one preferred form therefore, there is provided a wheel motor cover
to fit over a wheel hub region and having a solid cover body adapted to surround the wheel hub
region and extend away from the wheel hub region, the cover body having opposed open ends,
one open end being a hub end adapted to be positioned and fixed adjacent and around the
wheel hub region when the cover is fitted, and a remote end being adapted to be positioned

                                                  4
remote from the wheel hub region when the cover is fitted, the remote end having an outer
peripheral margin extending around the cover body, a removable front extending across the
cover body, the removable front having a peripheral marginal edge, the peripheral marginal
edge of the front and the outer peripheral margin of the remote end being securable together
and when so secured defining therebetween a juncture, such that upon removal of the front,
substantially the whole of the wheel motor hub region is exposed for access across substantially
the whole of the wheel motor cover.
[0013] The wheel motor cover preferably comprises the body and front, the cover comprises a
rigid or semi-rigid dome or cylinder being the body, so that the whole cover has an open end
which is disposed about the hub and a closed end which comprises the cover front. The cover
typically has at least one cover handle to aid positioning of the cover. There can be handles on
the cover body and/or handles on the cover front. The cover typically has spaced fasteners to
secure the cover about the hub region. Preferably, the remote end comprises a narrow
inwardly-directed annular shoulder lockable behind the peripheral marginal edge of the front by
the spaced fasteners. The cover body is typically part of an open ended cylinder or dome so its
open end surrounds the hub region and can be disposed circumferentially around the hub
region. The cover body may be part conical as in truncated right cone or a conical frustum with a
slight taper between a wide lower rim and a narrower outer rim. In this case the outer rim may
be in turned with or may have an inward flange. The lower rim may also have an inward flange.
The cover body projects away from the hub region and typically includes spaced vents. The
vents may be spaced around the cover body. The cover body is typically made as a single piece
by a rotational moulding process.
[0014] The front may include a flat plate like planar sheet or curved sheet of material that is
secured to the body about or at the juncture between the body and the front by suitable
fastening means. Preferably the front is a curved dome and where a cover body is formed as a
section of a right cone with an in-turn, the curved dome has a matching outer margin which
overlays part of the in-turn or flange. Preferably, the front is a sheet secured to the body within a
peripheral margin of the body about or at a juncture between the body and the front by suitable
fastening means.

                                                   5
[0015] The juncture between the body and the front may include overlapping marginal sections
of the body and front. The overlapping marginal sections may be overlapping circumferentially
extending marginal sections with spaced fastenings extending through the sections. In one form
the juncture is generally annular and the remote end and front are fastened together by
circumferentially spaced fasteners located about the juncture between the front and the cover
body. Typically, the fasteners are positioned by employing relative rotation of the front with
respect to the cover. In another form the fasteners are positioned by employing relative rotation
and axial movement of the front with respect to the cover.
[0016] The front may be slidable on the body to align holes, catches or otherwise to position the
front so that it may be fastened either manually or automatically as in a threaded or bayonet
type fastening action.
[0017] Typically, the front has at least one handle or the like to aid manual position of the front
for fastening purposes.
[0018] In one preferred from the cover includes a shoulder and the front is overlapping the
shoulder at the juncture, the fasteners being at the juncture. Typically, the shoulder extends into
a narrow margin or inward flange around the outer periphery of the cover body.
[0019] The juncture may permit sliding adjustment between the front and cover body and may
include a rotational guide and guideway. The guide and guideway may comprise mating circular
surfaces, the surfaces may include an inner surface of the cover body and guide ring on the
front. On outer surface of the front may overlap a surface of the cover. The overlapping extent
may be annular. In one preferred form the juncture between the body and the cover includes a
rotational guide and guideway in the form of spaced spigots projecting from the body and
spaced curved slots in a marginal edge section of the front, the curved slots being adapted to
capture and release the spigots upon rotation, insertion of the spigots into the slots and rotation
of the front in one direction to capture and in the opposite direction to release.

                                                    6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020]   In order that the present improvements may be more readily understood and put into
practical effect reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate
preferred embodiments of the invention and wherein:
 Figure 1 is a drawing illustrating the types of vehicles that use wheel motor covers of the type
described ;
 Figure 2 shows in part section the position of a wheel motor cover according to the present
invention;
 Figure 3 is top view of a wheel motor cover according to the present invention;
 Figure 4 is a side view;
 Figure 5 is a perspective view from below;
 Figure 6 is a perspective view from above; and
 Figure 7 is a top view of the fitted cover with the front removed;
 Figure 8 is a perspective view illustrating further embodiment;
 Figures 9 and 10 are respective front and exploded views of the embodiment of Figure 8.
METHOD OF PERFORMANCE
[0021] Referring to the drawings and initially to Figure 2 there is illustrated a wheel cover 10
fitted over a wheel hub region 11, the cover 10 having a cylindrical cover body 12 surrounding
the wheel hub region and being securable using spaced fasteners 13, 14 after being position as
shown, the cover body has an outer peripheral region 15 and there is a provided a removable
front 16 extending across the cover body as described below.
[0022] Referring now to Figure 3 to 7 the relationship between the cover body 12 and front will
be described in greater detail (like numerals refer to the like features). Figure 4 is a view similar
to Figure 2. The cover body 12 may be made from metal or plastics while the front may
comprise a clear plastics. The front 16 shown in the figures has a central recessed handle at 17
and is fastened by spaced bolts 18 which pass through corresponding holes in the front 16 into
threaded holes 19 in the cover body. This may be nuts welded in place. The cover body 12 has

                                                   7
a shoulder 20 and an inward flange 21 more clearly seen in Figure 7 so that an outer marginal
edge region 22 of the front 16 overlaps with the flange 21 as shown in Figure 3. The underside
23 of the front 16 has a locating ring 24 which fits inside the flange 21 and is able to rotatably
slide on the flange for single handed alignment of the bolts 18 with holes holes in the front with
the threaded holes 19 by using the handle 17.
[0023] Thus an operator may hold the handle 17, rotate the front and use a compressed air tool
and socket to remove or replace the bolts 18 with ease.
[0024] Once the front 16 has been removed the hub region 11 and its surrounds is substantially
fully exposed as in Figure 7. In particular there is ample room for inspection of the brake discs
25 or access to the brake caliper assembly 26.
[0025] Referring now to figure eight there is Illustrated a further embodiment showing a wheel
cover assembly 30 comprising a conical shaped wall section 31 with a domed outer cover
section 32 which is shown fitted in place in Figure 8 and Figure 9 but shown removed in Figure
10.
[0026] The wall section 31 has rim flanges 33 and 34 on on it's inner and outer rims 35 and 36.
This provides extra strength to the wall section 31. It also includes openings 37 and 38 which
include vent screens 39 and 40 so that cooling air may be vented from the assembly in use.
[0027] The dome cover 32 is transparent and itself includes a circular central region 41 a first
inner annular peripheral region 42 and an annular rim flange overlay section. These have
rotational guides and guideways used to secure the two parts together at their juncture. This
flange overlay section includes circumferentially spaced guideways as curved slots 43 which
may be aligned with guides as projecting spigots 44 which are circumferentially spaced about
the rim flange 33 of the wall section 31. In this case five slots and spigot sets are employed. The
spigots have narrow shank and wide head. The slots have a wide opening larger that the spigot
head leading to a narrow locking position narrower than the head but able to capture the shank
whereby the aligned spigots may be inserted into the wide openings and using a rotation action
the cover may be secured in place. In order to do this handles 45 and 46 are provided on

                                                  8
opposite sides of the cover 32. The slots may include a resilient shoulder or projections that the
shank rides over and is captured behind but can still be forced back over the shoulder under
manual pressure rotating the cover in the opposite direction. Thus the guideways lead the
guides into a locking position by rotation and the reverse is employed to unlock the front and
remove it.
[0028] Whilst the above has been given by way of illustrative example many variations and
modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the broad ambit
and scope of the invention as set out in the appended claims.

                                                 9
CLAIMS
1.      A wheel motor cover to fit over a wheel hub region and having a solid cover body
adapted to surround the wheel hub region and extend away from the wheel hub region, the
cover body having opposed open ends, one open end being a hub end adapted to be positioned
and fixed adjacent and around the wheel hub region when the cover is fitted, and a remote end
being adapted to be positioned remote from the wheel hub region when the cover is fitted, the
remote end having an outer peripheral margin extending around the cover body, a removable
front extending across the cover body, the removable front having a peripheral marginal edge,
the peripheral marginal edge of the front and the outer peripheral margin of the remote end
being securable together and when so secured defining therebetween a juncture, such that
upon removal of the front, substantially the whole of the wheel motor hub region is exposed for
access across substantially the whole of the wheel motor cover.
2.      A wheel motor cover according to claim 1 wherein the remote end comprises a narrow
inwardly-directed annular shoulder lockable behind the peripheral marginal edge of the front by
spaced fasteners.
3.      A wheel motor cover according to claim 1 wherein the juncture is generally annular and
the remote end and front are fastened together by circumferentially spaced fasteners located
about the juncture between the front and the cover body.
4.      A wheel motor cover according to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the fasteners are
positioned by employing relative rotation of the front with respect to the cover.
5.      A wheel motor cover according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
fasteners are positioned by employing relative rotation and axial movement of the front with
respect to the cover.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
