                                          ABSTRACT
        A machine learning engine is presented.        The disclosed recommendation engine
generates an ensemble of trained machine learning models that are trained on known genomic
data sets and corresponding known clinical outcome data sets.             Each model can be
characterized according to its performance metric or other attributes describing the nature of
the trained model.     The attributes of the models can also relate to one or more potential
research projects, possibly including drug response studies, drug or compound research, types
of data to collect, or other topics. The potential research projects can be ranked according to
the performance or characteristic metrics of models that share common attributes with the
potential research projects. Projects having high rankings according to the model metrics are
considered as targeting that would likely be most insightful.
Fig. 1
                                               33

                                                                                           100
                 Memory                                            Processor
    (RAM, Flash, SAN, RAID, Etc.)                                      150
                   120                                          Modeling Engine
                                                                       135
Modeling Engine Software Instructions <-
                   130                                Ensemble of Trained Clinical Outcome
                                                                      Models
                         Templates
       Prediction Model Predctin                        (Trained: SVMs, NFM, ANN, Etc.)
                          empltes145      Moel
  (Untrained: SVMs, NFM, ANN, Etc.)     <-      -45
                   140
                                                                  Trained Model
                                                                       143A
           Genomic Data Set(s)           +----+             Model Characteristic Metrics
    (WGSs, WESs, RNAseqs, Etc.)
                                                                        147A
                   1231
      Clinical Outcome Data Set(s)                                       O
            (IC50, G150, Etc.)            +
                                                                         0
                   125
                                                                  Trained Model
                                                                       143N
                                                            Model Characteristic Metrics
            Research Projects                                           147N
      (Drugs, Data Collection, Etc.)
                   150
*    Prediction Studies
*    Data to collect                                            Ensemble Metrics
e    Drugs                                                              149
*    Etc.
                               Ranked Potential Research Projects
                                              160
  e    Ranked   by Model Performance Metric(s)
  e    Ranked   by Ensemble Metric(s)
  e    Ranked   by Model Accuracy
  *    Ranked   by Model Accuracy Gain
  *    Etc.
                                         Figure 1

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx -I 92018
              ENSEMBLE-BASED RESEARCH RECOMMENDATION SYSTEMS AND
                                                                 METHODS
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the
entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
[0002] The field of the invention is ensemble-based machine learning technologies.
Background
[0003] The background description includes information that may be useful in understanding
the present inventive subject matter.                            It is not an admission that any of the information
provided herein is prior art or relevant to the presently claimed inventive subject matter, or
that any publication specifically or implicitly referenced is prior art.
[0004] Computer-based machine learning technologies have grown in use over the last
several years in parallel with interest in "big data", where data sets far exceed the capacity of
human beings to assimilate. Machine learning algorithms allow researchers to sift through
data sets in a reasonable amount of time to find patterns or to build digital models capable of
making predictions.                            Typically, researchers use a specific type of algorithm to answer a
specific question. This approach is quite useful for specific tasks where the nature of the
analysis data set aligns well with underlying mathematical assumptions inherent with the
algorithms.                 For example, a large data set that can be easily classified into two categories
would likely be best analyzed by a support vector machine (SVM) that is designed
specifically for classification based on geometric assumptions.                           Although specific analysis
tasks can benefit from specific algorithms, applying such algorithms to more generic projects
having data that is less clean or less aligned with the underlying mathematical assumptions to
the algorithm can be problematic.
[0005] One problem with using specific algorithms on more general data is that the
underlying mathematical assumptions of the algorithms can adversely impact the conclusions
generated from applying the algorithms to the data. Said another way, results from different
types of algorithms will be different from each other even when applied to the same data sets.
Thus, the assumptions of the algorithms affect the outputs, which can lead the researcher to
make uncertain or less confident conclusions if the nature of the data lacks ideal alignment

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
with the algorithm' s underlyingassumptions. In such scenarios, researchers need techniques
to mitigate the risk of uncertain conclusions induced by algorithm assumptions.
[0006] Even assuming a researcher is able to mitigate the risks incurred by algorithm
assumptions, the research likely encounters one or more overriding problems especially when
faced with many data sets on many different topics, and faced with many possible directions
in which to take their research in view of limited resources (e.g., money, time, compute
power, etc.).                  Consider a scenario where a researcher has access to hundreds of different
clinical data sets associated with many different drug studies.                           Assume the researcher is
tasked with the objective of determining which drug should be a target of continued research
based on the available data.                               Finding a recommended course of actions could be a quite
tedious project. The researcher could review each data set for each drug study to determine
which type of machine learning algorithm would be best suited for each data set.                               The
researcher could use each data set to train the selected specific machine learning algorithm
that corresponds to the data set. Naively, the researcher might then compare the prediction
accuracy of the resulting trained models to each other and select the drug that has a trained
model that appears most accurate.
[0007]             Unfortunately, the each trained algorithm is still subject to the risks associated with
its own assumptions. Although the researcher attempts to match the most proper algorithm to
a data set, such a matching is rarely ideal and is still subject to the researcher' s bias evenif it
is unintentional.                      Further, the accuracy of a trained algorithm on a single data set, even
accounting for cross fold validation, cannot be relied upon in cases where trained algorithm is
over-trained.                  For example, a trained algorithm could have 100% accuracy for the training
data, but still might not accurately reflect reality. In cases where there are a large number of
data sets and possible directions on which to focus, it would be desirable to be able to gain
insight into which direction would offer the greatest potential learning gain.                             A better
approach would mitigate the risks associated with the algorithm assumptions while also
removing possible bias of the researcher when selecting algorithms to use, and while further
accounting for algorithms that could be over-trained.
[0008] Some effort has been put forth to determine which model might offer the best
information with respect to specific topics. For example, U.S. patent application publication
2014/0199273 to Cesano et al. titled "Methods for Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Methods of
Treatment", filed November 21, 2013, discusses selection of models that are to be used in a

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
prediction or a prognosis in a healthcare setting.           Although Cesano discusses selecting a
model from multiple models, Cesano fails to provide insight into how models can be
leveraged beyond merely their prediction outputs.
[0009] Further progress appears to have been made in using computer-based molecular
structural models, rather than prediction models, as described in U.S. patent application
publication 2012/0010866 to Ramnarayan titled "Use of Computationally Derived Protein
Structures of Genetic Polymorphisms in Pharmacogenomics for Drug Design and Clinical
Applications", filed April 26, 2011. Ramnarayan discusses generating 3-D models of protein
structural variants and determining which drugs might satisfactorily dock with the variants.
The models can then be used to rank potential drug candidates based on how well a drug
model docks to the proteins. Still, Ramnarayan remains focus on 3D models per se and their
use rather than creation of prediction outcomes models that can be leveraged to determine
where to allocate research resources.
[0010] A more typical use of outcome models is discussed in U.S. patent application
publication 2004/0193019 to Wei titled "Method for Predicting an Individual' s Clinical
Treatment Outcome from Sampling a Group of Patient's Biological Profiles", filed March 24,
2003.             Wei discusses using discriminant analysis-based pattern recognition to generate a
model that correlates biological profile information with treatment outcome information. The
prediction model is used to rank possible responses to treatment.               Wei simply builds
prediction outcome models to make an assessment of likely outcomes based on patient
specific profile information. Wei also fails to appreciate that the models have value rather
than just their output and offer more insight regarding which type of research might yield
value rather merely using output from a generated model.
[0011] Ideally researchers or other stakeholders would have access to additional information
from an ensemble prediction models (i.e., trained algorithms) that would ameliorate the
assumptions across models while also providing an indication of which possible direction
would likely offer the most return. Thus, there remains a need for machine learning systems
that can provide insight into which research projects associated with many data sets would
likely yield most information based on the nature of an ensemble of models generated from
many different types of prediction models.

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0012] All publications identified herein are incorporated by reference to the same extent as
if each individual publication or patent application were specifically and individually
indicated to be incorporated by reference. Where a definition or use of a term in an
incorporated reference is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided
herein, the definition of that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in
the reference does not apply.
[0013] In some embodiments, the numbers expressing quantities of ingredients, properties
such as concentration, reaction conditions, and so forth, used to describe and claim certain
embodiments of the inventive subject matter are to be understood as being modified in some
instances by the term "about." Accordingly, in some embodiments, the numerical parameters
set forth in the written description and attached claims are approximations that can vary
depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by a particular embodiment. In
some embodiments, the numerical parameters should be construed in light of the number of
reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding
that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of some embodiments
of the inventive subject matter are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the
specific examples are reported as precisely as practicable. The numerical values presented in
some embodiments of the inventive subject matter may contain certain errors necessarily
resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements.
[0014] Unless the context dictates the contrary, all ranges set forth herein should be
interpreted as being inclusive of their endpoints and open-ended ranges should be interpreted
to include only commercially practical values. Similarly, all lists of values should be
considered as inclusive of intermediate values unless the context indicates the contrary.
[0015] As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning
of a, "an," and "the" includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
Also, as used in the description herein, the meaning of "in" includes "in" and "on" unless the
context clearly dictates otherwise.
[0016] The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand
method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range.                         Unless
otherwise indicated herein, each individual value is incorporated into the specification as if it
were individually recited herein.                           All methods described herein can be performed in any
                                                                     41

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., "such as") provided with
respect to certain embodiments herein is intended merely to better illuminate the inventive
subject matter and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the inventive subject matter
otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any
non-claimed element essential to the practice of the inventive subject matter.
[0017] Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments of the inventive subject matter
disclosed herein are not to be construed as limitations. Each group member can be referred to
and claimed individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other
elements found herein. One or more members of a group can be included in, or deleted from,
a group for reasons of convenience and/or patentability. When any such inclusion or deletion
occurs, the specification is herein deemed to contain the group as modified thus fulfilling the
written description of all Markush groups used in the appended claims.
Summary
[0018] In one broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a clinical
research project machine learning computer system comprising: at least one processor; at
least one memory coupled with the processor and configured to store: an omic data set
representative of tissue samples taken from a cohort; an outcome data set associated with the
cohort and representative of a biological state of the tissue samples; and wherein the omic
data set and the biological state are related to a plurality of potential research projects; and at
least one modeling engine executable on the at last one processor according to software
instructions stored in the at least one memory, and that configures the processor to: obtain a
set of prediction model templates; generate an ensemble of trained outcome prediction
models based on the set of prediction model templates and as a function of the omic data set
and the biological state data, wherein each trained outcome prediction model comprises
model characteristic metrics that represent attributes of the corresponding trained outcome
prediction model; generate a ranked listing of potential research projects selected from a
plurality of potential research projects according to ranking criteria depending on the
prediction model characteristic metrics of the plurality of trained outcome prediction models;
and cause a device to present the ranked listing of the potential research projects.

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0019] In one embodiment the omic data set includes at least one of the following:       gene
expression data, gene copy number data, pathway activity data, inferred pathway activity
data, SNP data, whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, RNAseq data, and proteomics data.
[0020] In one embodiment the outcome data set is associated with the cohort and
representative of a biological state of the tissue samples after a treatment.
[0021] In one embodiment the biological state is an immunological state, a tumor state, a
drug response state, or a treatment outcome.
[0022] In one embodiment the biological state is an initial state, a state subsequent to the
initial state, or a final state.
[0023] In one embodiment the biological state data comprise at least one of sequence data,
mutation data, gene expression data, regulatory RNA data, receptor activity data, B cell
activity data, T cell activity data, NK activity data, and tumor state data.
[0024] In one embodiment the software instructions configure the processor to generate a
second ensemble of trained outcome prediction models based on the set of prediction model
templates and as a function of a second omic data set and second biological state data,
wherein each trained outcome prediction model in the second ensemble comprises model
characteristic metrics that represent attributes of the corresponding second trained outcome
prediction model.
[0025] In one embodiment the omic data set and the second omic data set are identical.
[0026] In one embodiment the omic data set and the second omic data set are at least one of
the following: gene expression data, gene copy number data, pathway activity data, inferred
pathway activity data, SNP data, whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, RNAseq data, and
proteomics data.
[0027] In one embodiment the set of prediction model templates includes at least ten
prediction model types.
[0028] In one embodiment the set of prediction model templates comprise at least one of an
implementation of a linear regression algorithm, a clustering algorithm, an artificial neural
network, and an implementation of a classifier algorithm.

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0029] In one embodiment the model characteristic metrics include a model accuracy
measure.
[0030] In one embodiment the model accuracy measure comprises a model accuracy gain.
[0031] In one embodiment the model characteristic metrics include at least one of the
following model performance metrics: an area under curve (AUC) metric, an R2 metric, a p
value, and a silhouette coefficient.
[0032] In one embodiment the ranking criteria are defined according to ensemble metrics
derived from the model characteristic metrics.
[0033] In one embodiment the potential research projects include at least one of: a drug
response study, a genome expression study, a survivability study, a subtype analysis study, a
subtype differences study, a molecular subtypes study, and a disease state study.
[0034] In one broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a method of
generating a clinical research project, comprising: generating or obtaining an ensemble of
trained outcome prediction models; wherein each of the trained outcome prediction models is
based on one of a plurality of prediction model templates and is generated as a function of an
omics data set and corresponding outcome data that are representative of a biological state of
a cell or tissue; wherein each trained outcome prediction model comprises model
characteristic metrics that represent attributes of the corresponding trained outcome
prediction model; selecting a trained outcome prediction model based on the model
characteristic metrics; and using at least one of omics data and outcome data of the selected
trained outcome prediction model in the clinical research project.
[0035] In one embodiment the omic data set includes at least one of the following:       gene
expression data, gene copy number data, pathway activity data, inferred pathway activity
data, SNP data, whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, RNAseq data, and proteomics data.
[0036] In one embodiment the biological state is an immunological state, a tumor state, a
drug response state, or a treatment outcome.
[0037] In one embodiment the biological state is an initial state, a state subsequent to the
initial state, or a final state.
                                                            7

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0038] In one embodiment the set of prediction model templates includes at least ten
prediction model types.
[0039] In one embodiment the set of prediction model templates comprise at least one of an
implementation of a linear regression algorithm, a clustering algorithm, an artificial neural
network, and an implementation of a classifier algorithm.
[0040] In one embodiment the model characteristic metrics include a model accuracy
measure.
[0041] In one embodiment the model accuracy measure comprises a model accuracy gain.
[0042] In one embodiment the model characteristic metrics include at least one of the
following model performance metrics: an area under curve (AUC) metric, an R2 metric, a p
value, and a silhouette coefficient.
[0043] The inventive subject matter provides apparatus, systems and methods in which a
machine learning computer system is able to generate rankings or recommendations on
potential research projects (e.g., drug analysis, etc.) based on an ensemble of generated
trained machine learning models.                            One aspect of the inventive subject matter includes a
research project machine learning computer system (e.g., a computing device, distributed
computing devices working in concert, etc.) that includes at least one non-transitory computer
readable memory (e.g., Flash, RAM, HDD, SSD, RAID, SAN, NAS, etc.), at least one
processor (e.g., CPUs, GPUs, Intel® i7,                           AMD@ Opteron@, ASICs, FPGAs, etc.), and at
least one modeling computer or engine. The memory is configured to store one or more data
sets representing information associated with healthcare data. More specifically, the data sets
can include a genomic data set representing genomic information from one or more tissue
samples associated with a cohort patient population.                           Thus, the genomic data set could
include genomic data from hundreds, thousands, or more patients. The data sets can also
include one or more clinical outcome data set representing the outcome of a treatment for the
cohort. For example, the clinical outcome data set might include drug response data (e.g.,
IC50, G150, etc.) with one or more patients whose genomic data is also present in the
genomic data sets. The data sets can also include metadata or other properties that describe
one or more aspects associated with one or more potential research projects; types of analysis
studies, types of data to collect, prediction studies, drugs, or other research topics of interest.
The modeling engine or computer is configured to execute on the processor according to

H1:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/92018
software instructions stored in the memory and to build an ensemble of prediction models
from at the least the genomic data sets and the clinical outcome data sets. The modeling
engine is configured to obtain one or more prediction model templates that represent
implementations of possible machine learning algorithms (e.g., clustering algorithms,
classifier algorithms, neural networks, etc.). The modeling engine or computer generates an
ensemble of trained clinical outcome prediction models by using the genomic data set and the
clinical outcome data set as training input to the prediction model templates.                              In some
embodiments, the ensemble could include thousands, tens of thousands, or even more than a
hundred thousand trained models.                                    Each of the trained models can include model
characteristic metrics that represent one or more performance measures or other attributes of
each model.                    The model characteristic metrics can be considered as describing the nature of
its corresponding model.                                    Example metrics could include accuracy, accuracy gain, a
silhouette coefficient, or other type of performance metric.                               Such metrics can then be
correlated with the nature or attributes of the input data sets. In view that the genomic data
set and clinical outcome data set share such attributes with the potential research projects, the
metrics from the models can be used to rank potential research projects. The ranking of the
research projects according to the model characteristics metric, especially ensemble metrics,
can give an indication of which projects might generate the most useful information as
evidenced by the generated models.
[0044] Various objects, features, aspects and advantages of the inventive subject matter will
become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments,
along with the accompanying drawing figures in which like numerals represent like
components.
Brief Description of the Drawing
[0045] Figure 1 is an overview of a research project recommendation system.
[0046] Figure 2 illustrates generation of an ensemble of outcome prediction models.
[0047] Figure 3A represents the predictability of drug responses as ranked by the average
accuracy of models generated from validation data sets for numerous drugs.
                                                                          Q

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0048] Figure 3B represents the predictability of drug responses from Figure 3A as re-ranked
by the average accuracy gain of models generated from validation data sets for numerous
drugs and that suggests that Dasatinib would be an interesting research target.
[0049] Figure 4A represents a histogram of average accuracy of models in an ensemble of
models representing data associated with Dasatinib.
[0050] Figure 4B represents the data from Figure 4A as a histogram of average accuracy gain
of models in an ensemble of models representing data associated with Dasatinib.
[0051] Figure 5A represents the predictability of a type of genomic data set with respect to
Dasatinib from an accuracy perspective in histogram form.
[0052] Figure 5B represents the data from Figure 5A in an accuracy bar chart form for
clarity.
[0053] Figure 5C presents the data from Figure 5A and represent the predictability of a type
of genomic data set with respect to Dasatinib from an accuracy gain perspective in histogram
form.
[0054] Figure 5D represents the data from Figure 5C in an accuracy gain bar chart form for
clarity.
Detailed Description
[0055] It should be noted that any language directed to a computer should be read to include
any suitable combination of computing devices, including servers, interfaces, systems,
databases, agents, peers, engines, controllers, modules, or other types of computing devices
operating individually or collectively.                     One should appreciate the computing devices
comprise at least one processor configured to execute software instructions stored on a
tangible, non-transitory computer readable storage medium (e.g., hard drive, RAID, NAS,
SAN, FPGA, PLA, solid state drive, RAM, flash, ROM, etc.). The software instructions
configure or otherwise program the computing device to provide the roles, responsibilities, or
other functionality as discussed below with respect to the disclosed apparatus.              Further, the
disclosed technologies can be embodied as a computer program product that includes a non
transitory computer readable medium storing the software instructions that causes a processor
to execute the disclosed steps associated with implementations of computer-based algorithms,
                                                              10n

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
processes, methods, or other instructions.                                In some embodiments, the various servers,
systems, databases, or interfaces exchange data using standardized protocols or algorithms,
possibly based on HTTP, HTTPS, AES, public-private key exchanges, web service APIs,
known financial transaction protocols, or other electronic information exchanging methods.
Data exchanges among devices can be conducted over a packet-switched network, the
Internet, LAN, WAN, VPN, or other type of packet switched network; a circuit switched
network; cell switched network; or other type of network.
[0056] As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, when a
system, engine, server, device, module, or other computing element is described as
configured to perform or execute functions on data in a memory, the meaning of "configured
to" or "programmed to" is defined as one or more processors or cores of the computing
element being programmed by a set of software instructions stored in the memory of the
computing element to execute the set of functions or operate on target data or data objects
stored in the memory.
[0057] The following discussion provides many example embodiments of the inventive
subject matter.                      Although each embodiment represents a single combination of inventive
elements, the inventive subject matter is considered to include all possible combinations of
the disclosed elements.                                Thus if one embodiment comprises elements A, B, and C, and a
second embodiment comprises elements B and D, then the inventive subject matter is also
considered to include other remaining combinations of A, B, C, or D, even if not explicitly
disclosed.
[0058] As used herein, and unless the context dictates otherwise, the term "coupled to" is
intended to include both direct coupling (in which two elements that are coupled to each
other contact each other) and indirect coupling (in which at least one additional element is
located between the two elements). Therefore, the terms "coupled to" and "coupled with" are
used synonymously. Further, within the context of networked computing devices, the terms
"coupled to" and "coupled with" are intended to convey that the devices are able to
communicate via their coupling (e.g., wired, wireless, etc.).
[0059] One should appreciate that the disclosed techniques provide many advantageous
technical effects including coordinating processors to generate trained prediction outcome
models based on numerous input training data sets. The memory of the computing system
                                                                        11

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
can be distributed across numerous devices and partitioned to store the input training data sets
so that all devices are able to work in parallel on generation of an ensemble of models. In
some embodiments, the inventive subject matter can be considered as focusing on the
construction of a distributed computing system capable of allowing multiple computers to
coordinate communication and effort to support a machine learning environment.                                  Still
further the technical effect of the disclosed inventive subject matter is considered to include
correlating a performance metric of one or more trained model, including an ensemble of
trained models, with a target research target. Such correlations are considered to increase
likelihood of success of such targets based on hard to interpret data as well as counter
possible inherent bias in machine learning model types.
[0060] The focus of the disclosed inventive subject matter is to enable construction or
configuration of a computing device(s) to operate on vast quantities of digital data, beyond
the capabilities of a human.                                Although the digital data can represent machine-trained
computer models of genome and treatment outcomes, it should be appreciated that the digital
data is a representation of one or more digital models of such real-world items, not the actual
items.             Rather, by properly configuring or programming the devices as disclosed herein,
through the instantiation of such digital models in the memory of the computing devices, the
computing devices are able to manage the digital data or models in a manner that would be
beyond the capability of a human. Further, the computing devices lack a priori capabilities
without such configuration. The result of creating the disclosed computer-based tools is that
the tools provide additional utility to a user of the computing devices that the user would lack
without such a tool with respect to gaining evidence-based insight into research areas that
might yield beneficial insight or results.
[0061] The following disclosure describes a computer-based machine learning system that is
configured or programmed to instantiate a large number of trained models that represent
mappings from genomic data to possible treatment outcomes under various research
circumstances (e.g., drug response, types of data to collect, etc.). The models are trained on
vast amounts of data. For example, genomic data from many patients are combined with the
treatment outcomes for the same patients in order to create a training data set. The training
data sets are fed into one or more model templates; implementations of machine learning
algorithms. The machine learning system thereby creates corresponding trained models that
could be used for predicting possible treatment outcomes based on new genomic data.
                                                                       12?

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
However, the inventive subject matter focuses on the ensemble trained models rather than
predicted outcomes.                                  Beyond predicting possible treatment outcomes, it should be
appreciated that the collection of trained models, or rather the ensemble of trained models,
can provide insight into which research circumstances or projects might generate the most
insightful information as determined by one or more model performance metrics or other
characteristics metrics as measured across the ensemble of trained models.                              Thus, the
disclosed system is able to provide recommendations on which research projects might have
the most value based on the statistics compiled regarding the ensemble of models rather that
than the predicted results of the models.
[0062] Figure 1 presents computer-based research project recommendation system 100.
Although illustrated as including a single memory and a single processor, it should be
appreciated that the memory 120 can include a distributed memory spread over multiple
computing devices. Examples of memory 120 can include RAM, flash, SSD, HDD, SAN,
NAS, RAID, disk arrays, or other type of non-transitory computer readable media. In a
similar vein, although processor 150 is illustrated as a single unit, processor 150
euphemistically represents other processor configurations including single core, multi-core,
processor modules (e.g., server blades, etc.), or even networked computer processors.
System 100 could be implemented in a distributed computing system, possibly based on
Apaches Hadoop. In such a system, the storage devices supporting the Hadoop Distributed
File System (HDFS) along with memory of associated networked computers would operate
as memory 120. Further, each processor in the computers of the cluster would collectively
operate as processor 150. In view that much of the data sets processed by the disclosed
system can be quite large (e.g., more than 100GB in size), the disclosed computing system
can leverage such tools as GridEngine, an open-source distributed resource batch processing
system for distributing work load among multiple computers. It should be further appreciated
that the disclosed system can also operate as a for-fee service implemented in a cloud fashion.
Example cloud-based infrastructures that can support such activities include Amazon AWS,
Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, or other types of cloud computing systems. The examples
described within this document were generated based on a proprietary workload manager
called Pypeline implemented in Python and that leverages the Slurm workload manager (see
URL slurm.schedmd.com).

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0063] Memory 120 is configured to operate as a storage facility for multiple data sets. One
should appreciate that the data sets could be stored on a storage device local to processor 150
or could be stored across multiple storage devices, possibly available to processor 150 over a
network (not shown; e.g., LAN, WAN, VPN, Internet, Intranet, etc.).                          Two data sets of
particular interest include genomic data set 123 and clinical outcome data set 125. Both data
sets, when combined, form training data that will be used to generate trained models as
discussed below.
[0064] Genomic data set 123 represents genomic information representative of tissue samples
taken from a cohort; a group of breast cancer patients for example. Genomic data set 123 can
also include different aspects of genomic information. In some embodiments, genomic data
set 123 could include one or more of a the following types of data:                          a Whole Genome
Sequence (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES) data, microarray expression data,
microarray copy number data, PARADIGM data, SNP data, RNAseq data, protein
microarray data, exome sequence data, or other types of genomic data. As an example,
genomic data 123 could include WGS for breast cancer tumors from more than 100, 1000, or
more patients. Genomic data set 123 could further include genomic information associated
with healthy tissues as well, thus genomic data set 123 could include information about
diseased tissue with a matched normal. Numerous file formats can be used to store genomic
data set 123 including VCF, SAM, BAM, GAR, BAMBAM, just to name a few. Creation and
use of PARADIGM and pathway models are described in U.S. patent application publication
US2012/0041683                          to Vaske et al. titled "Pathway Recognition Algorithm Using Data
Integration on Genomic Models (PARADIGM)",                                filed April 29, 2011; U.S.   patent
application publication US2012/0158391                           to Vaske et al. titled "Pathway Recognition
Algorithm Using Data Integration on Genomic Models (PARADIGM)", filed October 26,
2011; and international patent application publication WO 2014/193982 to Benz et al. titled
"PARADIGM Drug Response Network", filed May 28, 2014. BAMBAM technologies are
described in U.S. published patent applications 2012/0059670 titled "BAMBAM:                         Parallel
Comparative Analysis of High-Throughput Sequencing Data", filed May 25, 2011; and
2012/0066001                     titled "BAMBAM:           Parallel Comparative Analysis of High-Throughput
Sequencing Data", filed November 18, 2011.
[0065] Clinical outcome data set 125 is also associated with the cohort and is representative
of measured clinical outcomes of the cohort's tissue samples after a treatment; after
                                                                   il4

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
administering a new drug for example. Clinical outcome data set 125 could also include data
from numerous patients within the cohort and can be indexed by a patient identifier to ensure
a patient' s outcome data in clinical outcome data et 125 is properly synchronized with the
same patient' sgenomic data in genomic data set 123. Just as there are numerous different
types of genomic data that can compose genomic data sets 123, there are also numerous types
of clinical outcome data sets. For example, clinical outcome data set 125 could include drug
response data, survival data, or other types of outcome data. In some embodiments, the drug
response data could include IC50 data, GI50 data, Amax data, ACarea data, Filters ACarea
data, max dose data, or more. Further, the clinical outcome data set might include drug
response data from 100, 150, 200, or more drugs that were applied across numerous clinical
trials. As a more specific example, the protein data could include MDA RPPA Core platform
from MD Anderson.
[0066] Each of data sets, among other facets of the data, represents aspects of a clinical or
research project. With respect to genomic data set 123, the nature or type of data that was
collected represents a parameter of a corresponding research project. Similarly, with respect
to clinical outcome data set 125 corresponding research project parameters could include type
of drug response data to collected (e.g., IC50, GI50, etc.), drug under study, or other
parameters or attributes related to corresponding research projects. The reader' s attention is
called to these factors because such factors become possible areas of future focus. These
factors can be analyzed with respect to ensemble statistics once an ensemble of trained
models are generated in order gain insight into which of the factors offer possible
opportunities.
[0067] In the example shown in Figure 1, research projects 150 stored in memory 120
represent data constructs or record objects representing aspects of potential research. In some
embodiments, research projects 150 can be defined based on set of attribute-value pairs. The
attribute-value pairs can adhere to a namespace that describes potential research projects and
that share parameters or attributes with genomic data sets 123 or clinical outcome data sets
125. Leveraging a common namespace among the data sets provides for creating possible
correlations among the data sets. Further, research projects 150 can also include attribute
value pairs that can be considered metadata, which does not directly relate to the actual nature
of the data collected, but rather relate more directly to a research task or prediction task at
least tangentially associated with the data sets. Examples of research task metadata could

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
include costs to collect data, predication studies, researcher, grant information, or other
research project information. With respect to prediction studies for which models can be
built, the prediction studies can include a broad spectrum of studies including drug response
studies, genome expression studies, survivability studies, subtype analysis studies, subtype
difference studies, molecular subtype studies, disease state studies, or other types of studies.
It should be appreciated that the disclosed approach provides for connecting the nature of the
input training data to the nature of potential research projects via their shared or bridging
attributes.
[0068] Memory 120, or a portion of memory 120, can also include one or more of prediction
model templates 140. Prediction model templates 140 represent untrained or "blank" model
that have yet to take on specific features and represent implementations of corresponding
algorithms.                  One example of a model template could include a Support Vector Machine
(SVM) classifier stored as a SVM library or executable module. When system 100 leverages
genomic data sets 123 and clinical outcome data sets 125 to train the SVM model, system
100 can be considered as instantiating a trained, or even fully trained, SVM model based on
the known genomic data set 123 and known outcome data set 125.                     The configuration
parameters for the fully trained model can then be stored in memory 120 as an instance of the
trained model. The configuration parameters will vary from model type to model type, but
can be considered a compilation of factor weights. In some embodiments, prediction model
templates 140 includes at least five different types of models, at least 10 different types of
models, or even more than 15 different types of models.                 Example types of models can
include linear regression model templates, clustering model templates, classifier models,
unsupervised model templates, artificial neural network templates, or even semi-supervised
model templates.
[0069] A source for at least some of prediction model templates 140 includes those available
via scikit-learn (see URL www.scikit-leam.org), which includes many different model
templates, including various classifiers. The types of classifiers can be also be quite board
and can include one or more of a linear classifier, an NMF-based classifier, a graphical-based
classifier, a tree-based classifier, a Bayesian-based classifier, a rules-based classifier, a net
based classifier, a kNN classifier, or other type of classifier. More specific examples include
NMFpredictor (linear), SVMlight (linear), SVMlight first order polynomial kernel (degree-d
polynomial), SVMlight second order polynomial kernel (degree-d polynomial), WEKA SMO

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
(linear), WEKA j48 trees (trees-based), WEKA hyper pipes (distribution-based), WEKA
random forests (trees-based), WEKA naive Bayes (probabilistic/bayes), WEKA JRip (rules
based), glmnet lasso (sparse linear), glmnet ridge regression (sparse linear), glmnet elastic
nets (sparse linear), artificial neural networks (e.g., ANN, RNN, CNN, etc.) among others.
Additional sources for prediction model templates 140 include Microsoft' s CNTK (see URL
github.com/Microsoft/cntk),                                TensorFlow (see URL www.tensorflow.com), PyBrain (see
URL pybrain.org), or other sources.
[0070] One should appreciate that each type of model includes inherent biases or
assumptions, which can influence how a resulting trained model would operate relative to
other types of trained models, even when trained on identical data.                             The inventors have
appreciated that leveraging as many reasonable models as available aids in reducing exposure
to such assumptions or to biases when selecting models.                            Therefore, the inventive subject
matter is considered to include using ten or more types of model templates, especially with
respect to research subject matter that could be sensitive to model template assumptions.
[0071] Memory 120, or portion of memory 120, can also include modeling engine software
instructions 130 that represent one or more of modeling computer or engine 135 executable
on one or more of processor 150. Modeling engine 135 has the responsibility for generating
many trained prediction outcome models from prediction model templates 140. As a basic
example, consider a scenario where prediction model templates includes two types of models;
an SVM classifier and an NMFpredictor (see U.S. provisional application 61/919,289 filed
December 20, 2013 and corresponding international application WO 2014/193982 filed May
28, 2014). Now consider that the genomic data set 123 and clinical outcome data set 125
represent data from 150 drugs. Modeling engine 135 uses the cohort data sets to generate a
set of trained SVM models for all 150 drugs as well as a set of trained NMFpredictor models
for all 150 drugs. Thus, from the two model templates, modeling engine 135 would generate
or otherwise instantiate 300 trained prediction models. An example of modeling engine 135
includes those described in International published patent application WO 2014/193982 titled
"Paradigm Drug Response Network", filed May 28, 2014.
[0072] Modeling engine 135 configures processor 150 to operate as a model generator and
analysis system. Modeling engine 135 obtains one or more of prediction model templates
140. In the example shown, prediction model templates 140 are already present in memory
120. However, in other embodiments, prediction model templates 140 could be obtained via
                                                                         17

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
an application program interface (API), through which a corresponding set of modules or
library are accessed, possibly based on a web service. In other embodiments, a user could
place available prediction model templates 140 into a repository (e.g., database, file system,
directory, etc.) via which modeling engine 135 can access the templates by reading or
importing the files, and/or querying the database. This approach is considered advantageous
because it provides for an ever increasing number of prediction model templates as time
progresses forward.                           Further, each template can be annotated with metadata indicating its
underlying nature; the assumptions made by the corresponding algorithms, best uses,
instructions, or other data.                                The model templates can then be indexed according to their
metadata in order to allow researchers to select which models might be most appropriate for
their work by selecting models having metadata that satisfy the research projects (e.g.,
respond study, data to collect, prediction tasks, etc.) selection criteria.                            Typically, it is
expected the nearly all, if not all, of the model templates will be used in building an
ensemble.
[0073] Modeling engine 135 further continues by generating an ensemble of trained clinical
outcome prediction models as represented by trained model 143A through 143N, collectively
referred to as trained models 143. Each model also includes characteristics metrics 147A and
147N, collectively referred to as metrics 147.                                 Modeling engine 135 instantiates trained
models 143 by using predication model templates 140 and training the templates on genomic
data sets 123 (e.g., initial known data) and on clinical outcome data sets 125 (e.g., final
known data). Trained models 143 represent prediction models that could be used, if desired,
in a clinical setting for personalized treatment or prediction outcomes by running a specific
patient' sgenomic data through the trained models in order to generate a predicted outcome.
However, there are two points of note. First, the focus of the inventive subject matter of this
document is on the ensemble of models as a whole rather than just a predicted outcome.
Second, the ensemble of trained models 143 can include evaluation models, beyond just fully
trained models, that are trained on only portions of the data sets, while a fully trained model
would be trained on the complete data set. Evaluation models aid in indicating if a fully
trained model would or might have value.                                    In some sense, evaluation models can be
considered partially trained models generated during cross-fold validations.
[0074] Although Figure 1 illustrates only two trained models 143, one should appreciate that
the number of trained models could include more than 10,000; 100,000; 200,000; or even

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
more than 1,000,000 trained models. In fact, in some implementations, an ensemble has
included more than 2,000,000 trained models.                            In some embodiments, depending on the
nature of the data sets, trained models 143 could comprise an ensemble of trained clinical
outcome models 145 that has over 200,000 fully trained models as discussed with respect to
Figure 2.
[0075] Each of trained models 143 can also include model characteristic metrics 147,
presented by metrics 147A and 147N with respect to their corresponding trained models.
Model characteristic metrics 147 represent the nature or capability of the corresponding
trained model 143.                           Example characteristic metrics can include an accuracy, an accuracy
gain, a performance metric, or other measure of the corresponding model.                               Additional
example performance metrics could include an area under curve metric, an R2, a p-value
metric, a silhouette coefficient, a confusion matrix, or other metric that relates to the nature of
the model or its corresponding model template. For example, cluster-based model templates
might have a silhouette coefficient while an SVM classifier trained model does not. The
SVM classifier trained model might use AUC or p-value for example. One should appreciate
that the characteristics metrics 147 are not considered outputs of the model itself. Rather,
model characteristics metrics 147 represent the nature of the trained model; how accurate are
its predictions based on the training data sets for example.                         Further, model characteristic
metrics 147 could also include other types of attributes and associated values beyond
performance metrics. Additional attributes that can be used at metrics relating to trained
models 143 include source of the model templates, model template identifier, assumptions of
the model templates, version number, user identifier, feature selection, genomic training data
attributes, patient identifier, drug information, outcome training data attributes, timestamps,
or other types of attributes. Model characteristics metrics 147 could be represented as an n
tuple or vector of values to enable easy portability, manipulation, or other type of
management or analysis as discussed below.                             Thus, each model can include information
about its source and can therefore include attributes associated with the same namespace
associated with genomic data set 123, clinical outcome data set 125, and research projects
150. Both trained models 143 and corresponding model characteristics metrics 147 can be
stored on memory 120 as final trained model instances, possibly based on a JSON, YAML, or
XML format. Thus, the trained models can be archived and retrieved at a later date.
                                                                    10

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0076] Not only are individual model characteristic metrics 147 available for each individual
trained model 143A through 143N, modeling engine 135 can also generate ensemble metrics
149 that represent attributes of the ensemble of trained clinical outcome models 145.
Ensemble metrics 149 could, for example, comprises an accuracy distribute or accuracy gain
distribution across all models in the ensemble.                               Additionally, ensemble metrics 149 could
include the number of models in the ensemble, ensemble performance, ensemble owner(s),
distribute of which model types are within the ensemble, power consumed to create
ensemble, power consumed per model, cost per model, or other information relating to the
ensemble in general.
[0077] Accuracy of a model can be derived through use of evaluation models built from the
known genomic data sets and corresponding known clinical outcome data sets. For a specific
model template, modeling engine 135 can build a number of evaluation models that are both
trained and validated against the input known data sets. For example, a trained evaluation
model can be trained based on 80% of the input data. Once the evaluation model has been
trained, the remaining 20% of the genomic data can be run through the evaluation model to
see if it generates prediction data similar to or closet to the remaining 20% of the known
clinical outcome data. The accuracy of the trained evaluation model is then considered to be
the ratio of the number of correct predictions to the total number of outcomes. Evaluation
models can be trained using one or more cross-fold validation techniques.
[0078] Consider a scenario where genomic data set 123 and clinical outcome data set 125
represent a cohort of 500 patients. Modeling engine 135 can partition the data sets into one
or more groups of evaluation training sets, say containing 400 patient samples. Modeling
engine creates trained evaluation model based on the 400 patient samples.                                   The trained
evaluation model can then be validated by executing the trained evaluation model on the
remaining 100 patients'                                 genomic data set to generate 100 prediction outcomes.  The 100
prediction outcomes are then compared to the actual 100 outcomes from the patient data in
clinical outcome data set 125. The accuracy of the trained evaluation model is the number of
correct prediction outcomes (i.e., true positives and true negatives) relative to the total
number of outcomes. If, out of the 100 prediction outcomes, the trained evaluation model
generates 85 correct outcomes that match the actual or known clinical outcomes from the
patient data, then the accuracy of the trained evaluation model is considered 85%.                                  The
remaining 15 incorrect outcomes would be considered false positives and false negatives.
                                                                          2n

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
[0079] It should be appreciated that modeling engine 135 can generated numerous trained
evaluation models for a specific instance of cohort data and model template simply by
changing how the cohort data is portioned between training samples and validation systems.
For example, some embodiments can leverage 5x3 cross-fold validations, which would result
in 15 evaluation models.                                    Each of the 15 trained evaluation models would have its own
accuracy measure (e.g., number of right predictions relative to the total number). Assuming
that accuracies from the evaluation models indicate that the collection of models are useful
(e.g., above threshold of chance, above the majority classifier, etc.), a fully trained model can
be built based on 100% of the data.                                    This means the total collection of models for one
algorithm would include one fully trained model and 15 evaluation models. The accuracy of
the fully trained model would then be considered an average of its trained evaluation models.
Thus, the accuracy of a fully trained model could include the average, the spread, the number
of corresponding trained models in the ensemble, the max accuracy, the min accuracy, or
other measure from the statistics of the trained evaluation models. Research projects can then
be ranked based on the accuracy of related fully trained models.
[0080] Another metric related to accuracy includes accuracy gain. Accuracy gain can be
defined as the arithmetical difference between a model' s accuracy and the accuracy of a
"majority classifier". The resulting metric can be positive or negative. Accuracy gain can be
considered a model' s performance relative to chancewith respect to the known possible
outcomes. The higher (more positive) the accuracy gain of a model, the more information it
is able to provide or learn from the training data. The lower (more negative) the accuracy
gain of a model, the less relevance the model has because it is not able to provide insights
beyond chance. In a similar vein to accuracy, accuracy gain for a fully trained model can
comprise a distribution of accuracy gains from the evaluation models. Thus, a fully trained
model' s accuracy gain could include an average, a pread, a min, a max, or other value. In a
statistical sense, a highly interesting research project would most likely have a high accuracy
gain with a distribution of accuracy gain above zero.
[0081] In view that models within ensemble of trained clinical outcome models 145 carry
attribute or metric information associated with the nature of the data used to create the model
or with the source of the model, modeling engine 135 can correlate information about the
ensemble with research projects 150 having similar attributes. Thus modeling engine 135 can
generate a ranked listing, ranked potential research projects 160 for example, of potential
                                                                            ?21

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
research projects from research projects 150 according to ranking criteria that depends on the
model characteristics metrics 147 or even ensemble metrics 149. Consider a situation where
the ensemble includes trained model 143 for over 100 drug response studies.                                    Modeling
engine 135 can rank the drug response studies by the accuracy or accuracy gain of each
study' s corresponding models.                                  Tl ranked listing could comprise a ranked set of drug
responses, drugs, type of genomic data collection, types of drug response data collected,
prediction tasks, gene expressions, clinical questions (e.g., survivability, etc.), outcome
statistics, or other type of research topic.
[0082] Once modeling engine 135 compiles ranked potential research projects 160, modeling
engine 135 can cause a device (e.g., cell phone, tablet, computer, web server, etc.) to present
the          ranked           listing          to         a stakeholder.   The   ranked  listing essentially  represents
recommendations on which projects, tasks, topics, or areas are considered to be most
insightful based on the nature of models or how the models in aggregate where able to learn.
For example, an ensemble' s accuracy gain can be considered a measure of which modeled
areas provided the most informational insight. Such areas would be considered as candidates
for research dollars or diagnostic efforts as evidenced by trained models generated from
known, real-world genomic data set 123 and corresponding known, real-world clinical
outcome data set 125.
[0083] Figure 2 provides additional details regarding generation of an ensemble of trained
clinical outcome prediction models 245. In the example shown, the modeling engine obtains
training data represented by data sets 220 that includes known genomic data sets 225 and
known clinical outcome data sets 223.                                    In this example, data sets 220 include data
representative of a drug response study associated with a single drug. However, data sets
from multiple drugs could be included in the training data sets; more than 100 drugs, 150
drugs, 200 drugs, or more. Further, the modeling engine can obtain one or more of prediction
model templates 240 that represent untrained machine learning modules.                                       Leveraging
multiple types of model templates aids in reducing exposure to the underlying assumption of
each individual template and aids in eliminating researcher bias because all relevant
templates or algorithms are used.
[0084] The modeling engine uses the training data set to generate many trained models from
model templates 240 where the trained models form ensemble of trained clinical outcome
prediction models 245. Ensemble of models 245 can include an extensive number of trained

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
modules.                  In the example shown, consider a scenario where a researcher has access to
training data associated with 200 drugs. The training data for each drug could include six
types of known clinical outcome data (e.g., IC50 data, GI50 data, Amax data, ACarea data,
Filtered ACarea data, and max dose data), and three types of known genomic data sets (e.g.,
WGS, RNAseq, protein expression data). If there are four feature selection methods and
about 14 different types of models, then the modeling engine could create over 200,000
trained models in the ensemble; one model for each possible configuration parameters.
[0085] Each of the individual models in ensemble of models 245 further comprises metadata
describing the nature of the models. As discussed previously, the metadata can include
performance metrics, types data used to train the models, features used to train the models, or
other information that could be considered as attributes and corresponding values in a
research project namespace.                                This approach provides for selecting groups of models that
satisfy selection criteria that depend on the attributes of the namespace. For example, one
could select all models trained according to collected WGS data, or all models trained on data
relating to a specific drug. Individual models can be stored in a storage device depending on
the nature of their underlying template; possibly in a JSON, YAML, or XML file storing
specific values of the trained model' s coefficientsor other parameters along with associated
attributes, performance metrics, or other metadata. When necessary or desired, the model can
be re-instantiated by simply reading the corresponding file' s modeltrained values or weights,
then setting the corresponding template' s parameters to theread values.
[0086] Once ensemble of models 245 is formed or generated, the performance metrics or
other attributes can be used to generate a ranked listing of potential research projects.
Consider a scenario where over 200,000 models have been generated. A clinician selects
models relating to a drug response study of a specific drug, which might result in about 1000
to 5000 selected models. The modeling engine could then use the performance metrics (e.g.,
accuracy, accuracy gain, etc.) of the selected models to rank types of genomic data to collect
(e.g., WGS, expression, RNAseq, etc.). This would be achieved by the modeling engine
partitioning the models into result sets according to the type of genomic data collected. The
selected performance metrics (or other attribute values) for each result set can be calculated;
average accuracy gain for example.                                 Thus, each result set can be ranked based on their
corresponding calculated models' performance metrics. In the current example, each type of
genomic data to collect could be ranked according to average accuracy gain of the

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
corresponding models.                                Such a ranking provides insight to the clinician on which type of
genomic data would likely be best to collect for a patient given the specified drug because the
nature of the models suggests where the model information is likely most insightful. In some
embodiments, the ranking suggests what type of genomic data to collect, possibly including
microarray expression data, microarray copy number data, PARADIGM data, SNP data,
whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, whole exome sequencing data, RNAseq data, protein
microarray data, or other types of data. The ranked listing can also be ranked by a secondary
or even tertiary metrics.                                   Cost of a type of data to collect and/or time to process the
corresponding data would be two examples. This approach allows a researcher to determine
the best course of action for the target research topic or project because the researcher can see
which topic or project configuration is likely to provide the greatest insight based on the
ensemble' s metrics.
[0087] Yet another example could include ranking drug responses by model metrics. In such
a case, the ranked drug response studies yields insight into which areas of drug response or
compounds might be of most interest as target research projects to purse. Still further, the
rankings can suggest which types of clinical outcome data to collect, possibly including IC50
data, G150 data, Amax data, ACarea data, Filtered ACarea data, max dose data, or other type
of outcome data. Yet even further, the rankings can suggest which types of prediction studies
might be of most interest, perhaps including one or more of a drug response study, a genome
expression study, a survivability study, a subtype analysis study, a subtype differences study,
a molecular subtypes study, a disease state study, or other studies.
[0088] The following figures represent rankings of various research topics based on accuracy
or accuracy gain performance metrics from an ensemble of over 100,000 trained models that
are trained on real-world, known genomic data sets and their corresponding known clinical
outcome data sets. These results in the following figures are real-world examples generated
by the Applicants based on real-world data obtained from Broad Institute's Cancer Cell Line
Encyclopedia                     (CCLE; see URL                     www.broadinstitute.org/ccle/home),  and the   Sanger
Institute's Cancer Genome Project (CGP; see URL www.sanger.ac.uk/science/groups/cancer
genome-project).
[0089] Figure 3A includes real-world data associated with numerous drug response studies
and represents the predictability of the drug responses as determined by the average accuracy
of models generated from validation data sets corresponding to the drugs. Based on accuracy
                                                                           214

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
alone, the data suggests that PHA-665752, a small molecule c-Met inhibitor, would likely be
a candidate for further study because the ensemble of models indicates there is substantial
information to be learned from data related to PHA-664752 because the average accuracy for
all trained models is highest. The decision to pursue such a candidate can be balanced by
other metrics or factors including costs, accuracy gain, time, or parameters.                        One should
appreciate that the distribution shown represents the accuracy values spread across numerous
fully trained models rather than evaluation models. Still, the researcher could interact with
the modeling engine to drill down to the one or more evaluation models, and their
corresponding metrics or metadata if desired.
[0090] The reader' s attention is directed to Dasatinib, whih is ranked 7th in Figure 3A.
Figure 3B represents the same data from Figure 3A. However, the drugs have been ranked
by accuracy gain. In this case, PHA-665752 drops to the middle of the pack, with an average
accuracy gain around zero. However, Dasatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, moves from 7th
rank to 1st rank with an average accuracy gain much greater than zero; about 15%. This data
suggests that Dasatinib would likely be a better candidate for further resource allocation in
view the ensemble of models yield high accuracy as well as high accuracy gain.
[0091] Figure 4A provides further clarity with respect to how metrics from an ensemble of
models might behave. Figure 4A is a histogram of the average accuracy for models within
the Dasatinib ensemble of models.                          Note that the mode is relatively high, indicating that
Dasatinib might be a favorable candidate for application of additional resources.                        In other
words, the 180 models associated with Dasatinib indicate that the models in aggregate
learned well on average.
[0092] Figure 4B presents the same data from Figure 4A in the form of a histogram of
average accuracy gain from the Dasatinib ensemble of models. Again, note the mode is
relatively high, around 20%, with a small number of models below zero.                            This disclosed
approach of ranking drug response studies or drugs according to model metrics is considered
advantageous because it provided an evidenced-based indication on where Pharma companies
should direct resources based on how well data can be leveraged for learning.
[0093] Continuing with a drill down on Dasatinib, Figure 5A illustrates how predictive a
type of genomic data (e.g., PARADIGM, expression, CNV - Copy Number Variation, etc.) is
with respect to model accuracy. The data suggests that PARADIGM and expression data is

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
more useful than CNV. Thus, a clinician might suggest that it would make more sense to
collect PARADIGM or expression data for a patient under treatment with Dasatinib over
collection CNV; subject to cost, time, or other factors.
[0094] Figure 5B presents the same data from Figure 5A in a more compact form as a bar
chart. This chart clarifies that the expression data would likely be the best type of data to
collect because it yields high accuracy and consistent (i.e., tight spread) models.
[0095] Figure 5C illustrates the same data from Figure 5A except with respect to accuracy
gain in a histogram form. Further clarity is provided by Figure 5D where the accuracy gain
data is presented in a bar chart, which reinforces that expression data is likely the most useful
data to collect with respect to Dasatinib.
[0096] The example embodiments provided above reflect data from specific drug studies
where the data represents an initial state (e.g., copy number variation, expression data, etc.) to
a final state (e.g., responsiveness to a drug).                 In the examples presented, the final stage
remains the same; a treatment outcome. However, it should be appreciated that the disclosed
techniques can be applied equally to any two different states associated with the patient data
rather than just treatment outcome. For example, rather than training the ensemble of models
on just WGS and treatment outcome, one could train the ensembles on WGS and
intermediary biological process states or immunological states, protein expression for
example. Thus, the inventive subject matter is also considered to include building ensembles
of models from data sets that reflect a finer state granularity than requiring just a treatment
outcome.                  More specifically patient data representing numerous biological states can be
collected from actual DNA sequences up through macroscopic effect, such as treatment
outcome. Contemplated biological state information can include gene sequences, mutations
(e.g., single nucleotide polymorphism, copy number variation, etc.), RNAseq, RNA, mRNA,
miRNA, siRNA, shRNA, tRNA, gene expression, loss of heterozygosity, protein expression,
methylation, intra-cellular interactions, inter-cellular activity, images of samples, receptor
activity, checkpoint activity, inhibitor activity, T-cell activity, B-cell activity, natural killer
cell activity, tissue interactions, tumor state (e.g., reduction in size, no change, growth, etc.)
and so on. Any two of these among other could be the basis building training data sets. In
some embodiments, semi-supervised or unsupervised learning algorithms (e.g., k-means
clustering, etc.) can be leveraged when the data fails to fall cleaning into well-defined classes.
                                                           ?2C,

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
Suitable sources of data can be obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (see URL tcga
data.nci.nih. gov/tcga).
[0097] Data from each biological state (i.e., an initial state) can be compared to data from
another, later biological state (i.e., final state) by building corresponding ensembles of
models. This approach is considered advantageous because it provides deeper insight into
where causal effects would likely give rise to observed correlations.                              Further, such a fine
grained approach also provides for building a temporal understanding of which states are
most amenable to study based on the ensemble learning observations.                                   From a different
perspective, building ensembles of models for any two states can be considered as providing
opportunities for discovery by creating higher visibility into possible correlations among the
states. It should be appreciated that such visibility is based on more than merely observing a
correlation. Rather, the visibility and/or discovery is evidenced by the performance metrics
of the corresponding ensembles as discussed previously.
[0098] Consider a scenario where gene mutations studied with respect to treatment outcome.
It is possible that, for a specific drug, the ensemble of models might lack evidence of any
significant learning for the specific genes when compared to treatment outcome. If the data
analysis stops there, no further insight is gained.                             Leveraging the disclosed fine grained
approach one could collect data at many different biological states, possibly including protein
expression or T-cell checkpoint inhibitor activity.                             These two states could be analyzed to
reveal, when a specific drug is present, the protein expression and the T-cell checkpoint
inhibitor activity are not only correlated, but also are highly amendable to machine learning
with high accuracy gain.                                   Such an insight would indicate that further study might be
warranted with respect to these correlations than with respect to gene mutation.
[0099] It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that many more modifications besides
those already described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts herein.
The inventive subject matter, therefore, is not to be restricted except in the spirit of the
appended claims. Moreover, in interpreting both the specification and the claims, all terms
should be interpreted in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context.                                   In
particular, the terms "comprises" and "comprising" should be interpreted as referring to
elements, components, or steps in a non-exclusive manner, indicating that the referenced
elements, components, or steps may be present, or utilized, or combined with other elements,
components, or steps that are not expressly referenced. Where the specification or claims
                                                                          ?7

1l:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
refer to at least one of something selected from the group consisting of A, B, C .... and N, the
text should be interpreted as requiring only one element from the group, not A plus N, or B
plus N, etc.
[00100]                  Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
[00101]                  Persons            skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous variations and
modifications will become apparent. All such variations and modifications which become
apparent to persons skilled in the art, should be considered to fall within the spirit and scope
that the invention broadly appearing before described.

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-I 92018
                                                                    CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A clinical research project machine learning computer system comprising:
                 at least one processor;
                 at least one memory coupled with the processor and configured to store:
                                an omic data set representative of tissue samples taken from a cohort;
                                an outcome data set associated with the cohort and representative of a
                                               biological state of the tissue samples; and
                                wherein the omic data set and the biological state are related to a plurality of
                                               potential research projects; and
                 at least one modeling engine executable on the at last one processor according to
                                software instructions stored in the at least one memory, and that configures the
                                processor to:
                                obtain a set of prediction model templates;
                                generate an ensemble of trained outcome prediction models based on the set of
                                               prediction model templates and as a function of the omic data set and
                                               the biological state data, wherein each trained outcome prediction
                                               model comprises model characteristic metrics that represent attributes
                                               of the corresponding trained outcome prediction model;
                                generate a ranked listing of potential research projects selected from a
                                               plurality of potential research projects according to ranking criteria
                                               depending on the prediction model characteristic metrics of the
                                               plurality of trained outcome prediction models; and
                                cause a device to present the ranked listing of the potential research projects.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the omic data set includes at least one of the following:
gene expression data, gene copy number data, pathway activity data, inferred pathway
activity data, SNP data, whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, RNAseq data, and
proteomics data.
3.       The system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the outcome data set is associated with the
cohort and representative of a biological state of the tissue samples after a treatment.
4. The system of any one of the claims I to 3, wherein the biological state is an
immunological state, a tumor state, a drug response state, or a treatment outcome.
                                                                         29

H:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
5. The system of any one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the biological state is an initial state,
a state subsequent to the initial state, or a final state.
6. The system of any one of the claims I to 5, wherein the biological state data comprise at
least one of sequence data, mutation data, gene expression data, regulatory RNA data,
receptor activity data, B cell activity data, T cell activity data, NK activity data, and tumor
state data.
7. The system of any one of the claims 1 to 6, wherein the software instructions configure
the processor to generate a second ensemble of trained outcome prediction models based on
the set of prediction model templates and as a function of a second omic data set and second
biological state data, wherein each trained outcome prediction model in the second ensemble
comprises model characteristic metrics that represent attributes of the corresponding second
trained outcome prediction model.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the omic data set and the second omic data set are
identical.
9. The system of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the omic data set and the second omic data set
are at least one of the following: gene expression data, gene copy number data, pathway
activity data, inferred pathway activity data, SNP data, whole genome sequencing (WGS)
data, RNAseq data, and proteomics data.
10. The system of any one of the claims I to 9, wherein the set of prediction model templates
includes at least ten prediction model types.
11. The system of any one of the claims I to 10, wherein the set of prediction model
templates comprise at least one of an implementation of a linear regression algorithm, a
clustering algorithm, an artificial neural network, and an implementation of a classifier
algorithm.
12. The system of any one of the claims I to 11, wherein the model characteristic metrics
include a model accuracy measure.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the model accuracy measure comprises a model
accuracy gain.
                                                            30

H:\stp\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
14. The system of any one of the claims I to 13, wherein the model characteristic metrics
include at least one of the following model performance metrics: an area under curve (AUC)
metric, an R 2 metric, a p-value, and a silhouette coefficient.
15. The system of any one of the claims I to 14, wherein the ranking criteria are defined
according to ensemble metrics derived from the model characteristic metrics.
16. The system of any one of the claims I to 15, wherein the potential research projects
include at least one of: a drug response study, a genome expression study, a survivability
study, a subtype analysis study, a subtype differences study, a molecular subtypes study, and
a disease state study.
17. A method of generating a clinical research project, comprising:
                 generating or obtaining an ensemble of trained outcome prediction models;
                 wherein each of the trained outcome prediction models is based on one of a plurality
                               of prediction model templates and is generated as a function of an omics data
                               set and corresponding outcome data that are representative of a biological state
                               of a cell or tissue;
                 wherein each trained outcome prediction model comprises model characteristic
                               metrics that represent attributes of the corresponding trained outcome
                               prediction model;
                 selecting a trained outcome prediction model based on the model characteristic
                               metrics; and
                 using at least one of omics data and outcome data of the selected trained outcome
                               prediction model in the clinical research project.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the omic data set includes at least one of the following:
gene expression data, gene copy number data, pathway activity data, inferred pathway
activity data, SNP data, whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, RNAseq data, and
proteomics data.
19. The method of claim 17 or claim 18, wherein the biological state is an immunological
state, a tumor state, a drug response state, or a treatment outcome.
20. The method of any one of the claims 17 to 19, wherein the biological state is an initial
state, a state subsequent to the initial state, or a final state.
                                                                31

 l:\stp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\STP\16247620_1.docx-l/ 92018
21. The method of any one of the claims 17 to 20, wherein the set of prediction model
templates includes at least ten prediction model types.
22. The method of any one of the claims 17 to 21, wherein the set of prediction model
templates comprise at least one of an implementation of a linear regression algorithm, a
clustering algorithm, an artificial neural network, and an implementation of a classifier
algorithm.
23. The method of any one of the claims 17 to 22, wherein the model characteristic metrics
include a model accuracy measure.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the model accuracy measure comprises a model
accuracy gain.
25. The method of any one of the claims 17 to 24, wherein the model characteristic metrics
include at least one of the following model performance metrics: an area under curve (AUC)
metric, an R2 metric, a p-value, and a silhouette coefficient.
                                                             32

                                                          <U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                            <U+2720><U+271E><U+271E>
                                <U+25BC> <U+2660><U+2666><U+2701><U+2461>                                                P<U+2701><U+2666><U+275D> ss<U+2666><U+2701>
                      <U+272D>|<U+2746><U+25BC><U+2731> <U+2702><U+2767><U+275B>s<U+2764><U+2731> <U+2759><U+2746><U+25C6><U+2731> |<U+2746>¦<U+2749><U+2731> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733><U+272E>                                      <U+2704><U+273A><U+2735>
                                   <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735>
                                                                                <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+271F> <U+274A><U+2665><U+271F><U+260E><U+2665>
                                                                                      <U+2704><U+2738><U+273A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+271F> <U+274A><U+2665><U+271F><U+260E><U+2665> <U+2759><U+2666><U+2762>t<U+2707><U+275B><U+2701> ¦<U+2665>st<U+2701><U+2706><U+275D>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665>s
                             <U+2704><U+2738><U+2735>
                                                                       <U+274A><U+2665>s <U+2660><U+275C><U+2767> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2756><U+2706>t<U+275D><U+2666><U+2660>
                                                                                     <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767>s
                                                                         <U+272D><U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E><U+273F> <U+2759><U+2771><U+25BC>s<U+2731> <U+25C6><U+2702><U+25BC><U+2731> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+25C6><U+2731> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733><U+272E>
                      P<U+2701> <U+275E><U+260E><U+275D>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767> <U+275A> <U+2660><U+2663><U+2767><U+275B>t s                                      <U+2704><U+2739><U+273A>
                  <U+272D><U+276F><U+2665>t<U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E><U+273F> <U+2759><U+2771><U+25BC>s<U+2731> <U+25C6><U+2702><U+25BC><U+2731> <U+2746><U+25C6><U+25C6><U+2731> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733><U+272E>
                                  <U+2704><U+2739><U+2735>
                                                                                     <U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767>
                                                                                          <U+2704><U+2739><U+2738><U+2721>
                         <U+25CF> <U+2665><U+2666><U+2660><U+260E><U+275D> <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> t<U+272D>s<U+272E>
                      <U+272D><U+2772><U+25CF><U+2759>s<U+2731> <U+2772><U+274A><U+2759>s<U+2731> |<U+25C6><U+2746>s qs<U+2731> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733><U+272E>                           <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767> <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2701><U+275B><U+275D>t <U+2701><U+260E>st<U+260E><U+275D> <U+25BC> t<U+2701><U+260E><U+275D>s
                                                                                      <U+2704><U+2739><U+273C><U+2721>
                                <U+2704><U+2737><U+2738>
                       <U+2748><U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2756><U+2706>t<U+275D><U+2666><U+2660> <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> t<U+272D>s<U+272E>
                             <U+272D>¦<U+2748><U+271D><U+271E><U+2731> <U+25CF>¦<U+271D><U+271E><U+2731> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733><U+272E>
                                    <U+2704><U+2737><U+273A>
                                                                                     <U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767>
                                                                                          <U+2704><U+2739><U+2738><U+261B>
                                                                            <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767> <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2701><U+275B><U+275D>t <U+2701><U+260E>st<U+260E><U+275D> <U+25BC> t<U+2701><U+260E><U+275D>s
                           | s <U+275B><U+2701><U+275D><U+2764> P<U+2701><U+2666><U+2765> <U+275D>ts                                          <U+2704><U+2739><U+273C><U+261B>
                      <U+272D><U+2749><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F>s<U+2731> <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2767><U+2767> <U+275D>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665><U+2731> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733><U+272E>
                                  <U+2704><U+273A><U+2735>
              <U+27B2>       P<U+2701> <U+275E><U+260E><U+275D>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2759>t<U+2706><U+275E><U+260E> s
              <U+27B2>       <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> t<U+2666> <U+275D><U+2666><U+2767><U+2767> <U+275D>t                                           <U+274A><U+2665>s <U+2660><U+275C><U+2767> <U+25BC> t<U+2701><U+260E><U+275D>s
              <U+27B2>       <U+2749><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F>s                                                          <U+2704><U+2739><U+273E>
              <U+27B2>       <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733>
                                                |<U+275B><U+2665><U+2766> <U+275E> P<U+2666>t <U+2665>t<U+260E><U+275B><U+2767> | s <U+275B><U+2701><U+275D><U+2764> P<U+2701><U+2666><U+2765> <U+275D>ts
                                                               <U+2704><U+273B><U+2735>
                  <U+27B2>    |<U+275B><U+2665><U+2766>   <U+275E> <U+275C><U+2461> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E>   <U+2767> P <U+2701><U+2762><U+2666><U+2701><U+2660><U+275B><U+2665><U+275D> <U+25BC> t<U+2701><U+260E><U+275D><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                  <U+27B2>    |<U+275B><U+2665><U+2766>   <U+275E> <U+275C><U+2461> <U+274A><U+2665>s   <U+2660><U+275C><U+2767> <U+25BC> t<U+2701><U+260E><U+275D><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                  <U+27B2>    |<U+275B><U+2665><U+2766>   <U+275E> <U+275C><U+2461> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E>   <U+2767> <U+2746><U+275D><U+275D><U+2706><U+2701><U+275B><U+275D><U+2461>
                  <U+27B2>    |<U+275B><U+2665><U+2766>   <U+275E> <U+275C><U+2461> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E>   <U+2767> <U+2746><U+275D><U+275D><U+2706><U+2701><U+275B><U+275D><U+2461> <U+25CF><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665>
                  <U+27B2>    <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733>
                                                          <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2736>

                                                              <U+2701><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                                                                                    P<U+2701> <U+275E><U+260E><U+275D>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767> <U+275A> <U+2660><U+2663><U+2767><U+275B>t s
                                                                                       <U+272D><U+276F><U+2665>t<U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E> <U+2746><U+2767><U+271F><U+2666><U+2701><U+260E>t<U+2764><U+2660>s<U+272E>
                                                                                                  <U+2737><U+2739><U+2735>
                                              <U+2748><U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2756><U+2706>t<U+275D><U+2666><U+2660> <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> ts           <U+2720><U+2733> <U+25B2><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275B><U+2701> | <U+271F><U+2701> ss<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665>
                 <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> t<U+272D>s<U+272E>                  <U+272D><U+274A><U+2733><U+271F><U+2733><U+2731> <U+2749><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F> | s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s <U+2762><U+2701><U+2666><U+2660>                <U+2746><U+2767><U+271F><U+2666><U+2701><U+260E>t<U+2764><U+2660><U+272D>s<U+272E>
               <U+272D><U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665><U+260E><U+2665><U+271F> ¦<U+2665><U+2663><U+2706>t<U+272E>                        <U+2756><U+2665> <U+2749><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F><U+272E>                    <U+2733> <U+2748><U+2767><U+2706>st <U+2701><U+260E><U+2665><U+271F> <U+2746><U+2767><U+271F><U+2666><U+2701><U+260E>t<U+2764><U+2660><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                       <U+271E>                                    <U+2738>                     <U+2738><U+2733> <U+2759> <U+2660><U+260E><U+2732><U+2759><U+2706><U+2663> <U+2701><U+2708><U+260E>s <U+275E>
                                                                                      <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                                                                  <U+2739><U+2733> <U+25B2><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275B><U+2701> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                            ¦<U+2748><U+271D><U+271E>    <U+25CF>¦<U+271D><U+271E>   <U+2746><U+2660><U+275B><U+2460> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2779>              <U+271D><U+2733> <U+25C6><U+25BC><U+2702><U+2732><U+2747><U+275B>s <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                            |<U+25C6><U+2746>s q            <U+2773>      <U+2773>                            <U+273B><U+2733> <U+25CF><U+2701><U+275B><U+2663><U+2764><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B><U+2767><U+2732><U+2747><U+275B>s <U+275E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+25CF> <U+2665><U+2666><U+2660><U+260E><U+275D>       <U+2759><U+25C6>P                      <U+2773>        <U+2773>                       <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
              <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> ts     <U+2772><U+25CF><U+2759>               <U+2773>      <U+2773>        <U+2773>                   <U+273C><U+2733> <U+275A><U+2701> <U+2732><U+2747><U+275B>s <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                   <U+271D>        P<U+2746>|<U+2746><U+2749>¦<U+25CF><U+25BC>          <U+2773>               <U+2773>                   <U+273D><U+2733> <U+2747><U+275B><U+2461> s<U+260E><U+275B><U+2665><U+2732><U+2747><U+275B>s <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                            <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2779>                                                  <U+273E><U+2733> |<U+2706><U+2767> s<U+2732><U+2747><U+275B>s <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                                                                  <U+2720><U+271E><U+2733> <U+25C6> t<U+2732><U+2747><U+275B>s <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                                                                  <U+2720><U+2720><U+2733> <U+2766><U+2732><U+25C6><U+25C6> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+260E><U+2762><U+260E> <U+2701><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                                                                  <U+2720> <U+2733> <U+25C6> <U+2706><U+2701><U+275B><U+2767> <U+25C6> t<U+2707><U+2666><U+2701><U+2766><U+272D>s<U+272E>
                                                                                  <U+2720><U+2738><U+2733> <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2733>
                                 <U+274A><U+2665>s <U+2660><U+275C><U+2767> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E> <U+2748><U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2756><U+2706>t<U+275D><U+2666><U+2660> P<U+2701> <U+275E><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767>s <U+272D><U+274A><U+2460><U+275B><U+2660><U+2663><U+2767> <U+272E>
                                                                <U+2737><U+2739><U+273A>
                    <U+27B2>     <U+25C6><U+2706><U+2660><U+275C>    <U+2701> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2749><U+2701><U+2706><U+271F>s <U+272D><U+2749><U+2665> <U+271E><U+271E><U+272E>
                    <U+27B2>     <U+25C6><U+2706><U+2660><U+275C>    <U+2701> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2746><U+2708><U+275B><U+260E><U+2767><U+275B><U+275C><U+2767> <U+2748><U+2767><U+260E><U+2665><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2756><U+2706>t<U+275D><U+2666><U+2660> s <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> ts <U+272D><U+2748><U+2666>   <U+273B><U+272E>
                    <U+27B2>     <U+25C6><U+2706><U+2660><U+275C>    <U+2701> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2746><U+2708><U+275B><U+260E><U+2767><U+275B><U+275C><U+2767> <U+25CF> <U+2665><U+2666><U+2660><U+260E><U+275D> <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+2759> ts <U+272D><U+2749>s <U+2738><U+272E>
                    <U+27B2>     <U+25C6><U+2706><U+2660><U+275C>    <U+2701> <U+2666><U+2762> P<U+2701> <U+275E><U+260E><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767> <U+275A> <U+2660><U+2663><U+2767><U+275B>t s <U+272D>P<U+2660> <U+2720><U+2739><U+272E>
                    <U+27B2>     <U+25C6><U+2706><U+2660><U+275C>    <U+2701> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2702> <U+275B>t<U+2706><U+2701> <U+2759> <U+2767> <U+275D>t<U+260E><U+2666><U+2665> <U+25BC> t<U+2764><U+2666><U+275E>s <U+272D><U+2702>s <U+2739><U+272E>
                    <U+27B2>     <U+274A>t<U+275D><U+2779>
                    <U+25C6><U+2706><U+2660><U+275C> <U+2701> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767>s <U+260E><U+2665> <U+274A><U+2665>s <U+2660><U+275C><U+2767> <U+2742> <U+2749><U+2665> × <U+2748><U+2666> × <U+2749>s × P<U+2660> × <U+2702>s
                                                   <U+271E><U+271E> × <U+273B> × <U+2738> × <U+2720><U+2739> × <U+2739>
                                                   <U+271E><U+2720><U+2731><U+273B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+275A><U+2701><U+275B><U+260E><U+2665> <U+275E> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E> <U+2767>s
                                                           <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2737>

                                                                                                                                                        REPLACEMENT SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                3/14
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Predictability of Drug Responses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Temsirolimus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Methotrexate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vinblastine
                                                                                             Paclitaxel
                                                                                                                   Bortezomib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gefitinib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bicalutamide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TW 37
                                                                 Sorafenib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ATRA
                                                     <U+2706>                           <U+260E>   <U+270C>                     <U+261B>                                <U+2706>       <U+2706>       <U+2713>               <U+2706>   <U+270C>           <U+2713>       <U+2713>   <U+261B>           <U+2713>                                                              <U+270C>                   <U+271C>       <U+2706>                                     <U+2713>       <U+2713>       <U+2711>   <U+261B>       <U+270C>                      <U+2729>              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                <U+261E>                                   <U+2712>                                                                   <U+2712>                      <U+2704>                           <U+2721>                               <U+2721>
              FIG. 3A-1
                                                             <U+272A>
                                                                                              Dasatinib
                                                                                 <U+260E>   <U+2729>                         <U+2706>                    <U+2713>           <U+261B>       <U+2729>       <U+261B>               <U+270C>                           <U+260E>                           <U+2706>                                                          <U+261B>           <U+2706>           <U+261B>                             <U+270C>                           <U+2706>                      <U+2706>          <U+260E>
                                                 <U+2721>                                                                                                                      <U+261E>               <U+261E>           <U+2712>               <U+2712>                                          <U+2704>                       <U+2704>   <U+261E>                                                                     <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                         <U+260E>                                          <U+2713>               <U+2713>       <U+2706>                       <U+2706>                       <U+2706>                                                                                  <U+2704>           <U+261E>                                                 <U+2712>                   <U+261E>                          <U+260E>          <U+2704>
                                                     <U+2704>                           <U+2712>                             <U+2712>                                                <U+2721>       <U+261E>               <U+261E>           <U+2704>           <U+261E>                       <U+2704>                                              <U+2712>                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>                                                 <U+2706>           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2724>
                                                                                              Lapatinib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Midostaurin
                                                                                 <U+2713>                                                                          <U+2706>               <U+2706>       <U+260E>       <U+2706>                                       <U+270C>                                              <U+261B>                                                                                                 <U+260E>
                                                 <U+2721>                                                                                                                  <U+2712>                                           <U+2721>                                                                                                                                            <U+2712>                                                         <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                    <U+2720>                                               <U+2720>       <U+2720>                                                  <U+2720>                                           <U+271B>                                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                         <U+2605>                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>                                                                 <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                               Erlotinib
                                                         <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2726>
                                                     <U+260E>                       <U+270C>                                                                                                          <U+261B>                           <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                                           <U+270C>                                            <U+2720>       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                            <U+272A>
                                                             <U+2704>
                                                     <U+260E>                       <U+261B>                                                                                                          <U+261B>                       <U+261B>                                                                      <U+2713>                                                                     <U+2704>                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                             Vorinostat
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>       <U+2702>                                   <U+271D>                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2605>                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                                         <U+270D>
                                                                                         <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                                             <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2712>                       <U+2712>
                                                 <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>                                                                     <U+2720>                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Camptothecin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                                                           <U+272C>                                                                                                                        <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>       <U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                    <U+272B>
                                                                                 <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2714>
                                                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                 <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270D>
                                                                                     <U+272D>
                                                                                 <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2723>                       <U+2723>
                                                 <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                             <U+2723>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>                                                   <U+2720>                       <U+2729>       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                   <U+2714>                                                                   <U+2701>                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>                                           <U+2713>
                               Epothilone B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIG. 3A-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2729>                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>                                                                   <U+2713>                       <U+260E>                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>                                                                                                               <U+270C>                                           <U+261E>       <U+261E>
                                                                                       <U+272A>                                                                                                       <U+2712>                                           <U+2713>                                                   <U+260E>
                                       <U+272D>                                   <U+2723>                                                       <U+2720>                                   <U+271D>                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>       <U+2721>
           <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2605>                                   <U+2701>                                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                               Sunitinib
                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>                                                                                                                               <U+2729>                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                       <U+2605>                                                                                                   <U+2725>                                                       <U+2713>                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2727>                                               <U+2726>                                                   <U+2713>                       <U+2712>                           <U+2712>
               <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>                           <U+261B>
                                                                           <U+2716>                                                                       <U+260E>                                       <U+2713>                                                                                               <U+260E>                   <U+2712>       <U+260E>
                       <U+271D>                   <U+271E>                                                       <U+271F>                                               <U+2720>                                                                                       <U+2721>                       <U+270C>                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>                                                                                                               <U+2712>       <U+2704>
                                                                               Elesclomol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>                                                                                                       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                       Imatinib
                                                       <U+272C>                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>                                               <U+261E>                       <U+261E>
                           <U+2727>                                                                                           <U+2726>               <U+272B>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>                   <U+2706>       <U+2713>
                                                                                           <U+271F>                                                   <U+271D>                                               <U+2721>                                           <U+261E>                                               <U+2729>                   <U+2729>       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                           Axitinib
                                                       Bryostatin 1
                                                        Cytarabine
                                                          Nilotinib
                                                        Bleomycin
                                                                                                               <U+2702>                                                   <U+2701>                                   <U+2702>                                       <U+2704>                       <U+2718>       <U+271C>                   <U+260E>               <U+2704>       <U+2719>
    Pyrimethamine
Obatoclax Mesylate
         Etoposide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4/14
                                                                                   <U+271E>                                                               <U+2720>                                           <U+270C>                                           <U+270C>                                               <U+270C>                   <U+261B>       <U+261E>
                                               <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                         AICAR
                                                                                                                                       Bosutinib
                                                                                                                                           <U+2723>                                               <U+2720>                                                                       <U+270C>                       <U+2721>                   <U+261B>       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2706>
                                                       Bexarotene
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REPLACEMENT SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>                                                   <U+270C>                   <U+270C>       <U+261E>
                                                           <U+272A>                                                                   <U+2702>                                                   <U+2727>                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                                           <U+2722>                                                   <U+271E>                                                                                               <U+2729>                       <U+2720>                       <U+2729>       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                           Mitomycin C
                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>                                           <U+2712>                       <U+2713>                       <U+2706>
                               Gemcitabine
                                                                                                                                           <U+2723>                                               <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+270C>                           <U+270C>
                                       <U+2727>                                       <U+272A>                                                                                                                                                           <U+260E>                       <U+2712>                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272D>                                               <U+2722>                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>                   <U+2712>       <U+2706>
                                                                   <U+271F>                                                       <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2706>                                           <U+2713>                       <U+260E>                       <U+2704>                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>                                                                                   <U+261E>                       <U+261B>                       <U+261E>
   <U+2714>                               <U+2706>                           <U+2712>                                               <U+2712>                                                                               <U+2712>                                                                                                               <U+2704>       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>                                               <U+261B>       <U+2721>
                               <U+270F>                                       <U+2726>                       <U+270E>                                                   <U+2712>                                       <U+2712>                                           <U+2713>                                                   <U+2713>
                               Thapsigargin
                                 Pazopanib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2729>                                           <U+2721>       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>                                       <U+2702>                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                   Vinorelbine
                                                                                                           <U+271D>                                                                       <U+2720>                                                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>                                                       <U+2702>                                           <U+2713>                                           <U+2704>       <U+2712>
                           Lenalidomide
                                                   <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                       <U+261E>
                   <U+272A>                                                                       <U+270F>                                                   <U+2706>                                       <U+260E>                                                                                           <U+260E>                   <U+2706>
                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                   <U+2729>                                           <U+2721>                       <U+270C>                                                   <U+2721>
       <U+270D>   <U+270E>                           <U+270D>                                                                       <U+2706>                                       <U+260E>                                                                                                                                   <U+2713>                   <U+260E>

                                                                                                                                                                   REPLACEMENT SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5/14
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Avg. Prediction Accuracy (%) in Validation Datasets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIG. 3A-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AKT inhibitor VIII
                                                                                                                                                                               QS11                                                                                       Shikonin                                                                                   Roscovitine
                                                                                                  Tipifarnib
                                                                                                                               Rapamycin
                                      Embelin
                                                        Metformin
                                                                              Cisplatin
                          <U+2713>   <U+2729>                     <U+2713>                                                          <U+270C>           <U+2713>               <U+261B>           <U+2706>       <U+260E>       <U+260E>                    <U+260E>       <U+260E>                <U+260E>       <U+260E>                            <U+2704>       <U+260E>                      <U+2713>           <U+270C>       <U+270C>       <U+261B>                   <U+260E>   <U+261B>           <U+2713>   <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+2721>                                                                                                             <U+261E>                                                                                        <U+2704>                               <U+2712>
              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                      <U+270C>       <U+2729>                                                                                                                <U+2713>   <U+2729>                                    <U+2721>                            <U+2712>       <U+2712>                            <U+271B>                                                  <U+270C>       <U+261B>       <U+2729>                       <U+270C>           <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2704>                <U+2721>           <U+2704>                                   <U+2712>   <U+261E>                                    <U+2721>                                                         <U+2712>                      <U+2704>       <U+2704>   <U+261E>                               <U+261E>       <U+261E>
                                                <U+2720>
                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                    <U+272C>
                              <U+2729>                                                               <U+2706>                    <U+260E>       <U+2706>                       <U+270C>       <U+261B>                                                <U+2713>                                                     <U+2706>                      <U+260E>   <U+2729>       <U+261B>                           <U+260E>                               <U+2713>
                      <U+270C>                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>                        <U+2704>   <U+2721>                <U+261E>           <U+2704>                                                                                   <U+2704>   <U+261E>                   <U+2704>       <U+2712>   <U+261E>
                                                    <U+2713>
              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cyclopamine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                           Salubrinal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                               <U+261B>           <U+2706>                           <U+260E>   <U+261B>           <U+2706>                    <U+2713>       <U+2706>   <U+2729>                                                         <U+2706>                  <U+2729>                                                                       <U+2729>
                          <U+2704>                                             <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>       <U+2712>   <U+261E>       <U+2721>                   <U+2712>       <U+2704>       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>       <U+2720>                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                              <U+2720>                                                           <U+2720>
                                                    <U+2712>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                            Doxorubicin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CMK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                               <U+270C>           <U+260E>                                       <U+2729>                    <U+270C>                   <U+2713>                                                                                <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2712>           <U+2721>           <U+2712>   <U+2721>                           <U+2712>               <U+2712>
                      <U+2720>                             <U+2713>               <U+2720>                                                                                      <U+2720>                                    <U+2720>                                                             <U+2720>
                                  <U+2725>
              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2722>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>                                                                                                                <U+260E>
                                                                                                               <U+270C>                                                       <U+2712>                                    <U+2712>                                                                            <U+2704>                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                       <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2712>               <U+2704>
                                                                        <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>                       <U+2720>
                                                    <U+2712>
              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                              <U+271D>
                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JNK Inhibitor VIII
                                                                        <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parthenolide
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+270C>                                                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                               <U+2720>       <U+2720>                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>       <U+2720>                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2725>                                                                                                                                    <U+2725>
              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2727>                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2726>
                                                    <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+272B>                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                           <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+270F>   <U+271F>                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271F>                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                <U+271F>                       <U+2711>
                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2724>
                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>                                                                                                                                    <U+2727>
                                                                        <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2723>
                                                                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271D>                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Increase in Predictability of Drug Responses Over Majority Classifier
FIG. 3B-1
                                                       Dasatinib
                                                      Vorinostat
                                                                      <U+272C>                                                   <U+2720>                                                           <U+270C>                                   <U+2720>                                   <U+261B>
                          <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>           <U+2706>
                          Bortezomib
                           RDEA119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>                                                               <U+270E>                               <U+2724>                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                                   <U+2729>
                                                                  <U+2701>                                               <U+2702>                                                                                                           <U+2706>               <U+2706>               <U+2713>
                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>                                                                               <U+2713>               <U+2706>
                                      <U+271D>                                                   <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>       <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2726>                                                                   <U+2714>                                                                               <U+2706>                               <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>                                               <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2727>                                               <U+2605>                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>       <U+2712>       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>                                                                                                       <U+2720>                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>                                                               <U+2706>           <U+260E>
                                                                                                      Gefitinib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+2724>                                               <U+2725>                                               <U+2726>                                           <U+2706>       <U+2704>       <U+2704>
           Bicalutamide
          Methotrexate
            Midostaurin
          Camptothecin
                      <U+2723>                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                               <U+270C>
                                              <U+2702>                                                                                   <U+2713>                                                       <U+2704>                                                   <U+2712>       <U+2704>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>                                                               <U+2722>                                               <U+2720>                           <U+261E>       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>                                                       <U+2716>                                       <U+2706>   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>                                           <U+2714>                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>                                   <U+2721>           <U+261B>   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                  Vinblastine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6/14
                                                                              <U+2720>                                                                                                   <U+2720>                                       <U+2721>                       <U+2720>
                  <U+270D>           <U+2714>                                                                                           <U+2704>                                                                                                               <U+2706>                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>           <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+270D>                                           <U+270E>                                                       <U+270F>                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>                                           <U+2720>           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                       <U+2704>                                   <U+2712>               <U+2712>               <U+2713>
          <U+271D>       <U+271E>                               <U+271F>                               <U+2720>                                               <U+2721>                                                       <U+261B>                                                   <U+261E>               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>                           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REPLACEMENT SHEET
              Temsirolimus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                       <U+260E>           <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ATRA
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                       <U+2720>               <U+2729>   <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2714>                                                               <U+2701>                                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>                                                       <U+2702>                                                       <U+2704>               <U+2704>           <U+260E>   <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>                           <U+2713>
              Epothilone B
                  681640
              <U+272D>                   <U+2723>                           <U+2720>                                       <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>   <U+2721>
  <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2605>                                               <U+2701>                       <U+2706>
                                                                                          Sunitinib
                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>                       <U+261E>       <U+261E>
                                          <U+272A>                                                                                       <U+2712>                                                       <U+2713>                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+2727>                                                       <U+2726>                                                                       <U+2713>               <U+2712>               <U+2712>
                                                      EHT 1864
      <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>                                       <U+261B>
                                  <U+2716>                                               <U+260E>                                           <U+2713>                                                                                                               <U+260E>       <U+2712>       <U+260E>
          <U+271D>       <U+271E>                               <U+271F>                               <U+2720>                                                                                                       <U+2721>                                   <U+270C>               <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                   <U+2712>       <U+2704>
                                          DMOG
                                      Elesclomol
                                         Imatinib

                                                                                                                                                 REPLACEMENT SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7/14
<removed-date>
              FIG. 3B-2
<removed-apn>
                                  Axitinib                                                   AICAR
                                                                                                             Bosutinib
                                                                                                                                                         Mitomycin C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tipifarnib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Thapsigargin                                                                                             Cisplatin
                                             <U+2719>
                  <U+2713>                                  <U+2704>       <U+271B>       <U+2704>       <U+2704>   <U+2704>                   <U+270C>                               <U+2704>           <U+2702>                                 <U+2704>   <U+270C>           <U+2706>        <U+260E>   <U+261B>                   <U+2706>                                              <U+2704>       <U+2704>               <U+2713>       <U+2713>       <U+271B>   <U+2729>                   <U+271B>                                 <U+270C>                        <U+2706>
                      <U+2721>                                                              <U+261E>                                   <U+261E>               <U+2721>                             <U+2721>                                                <U+2721>                   <U+2712>                          <U+2721>                       <U+2721>                                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2722>
                                             <U+2704>
                                                             <U+271A>                                                                                       <U+271A>                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271A>                       <U+271A>
                                                                             <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2719>
                  <U+2706>   <U+2729>
                                                     <U+271B>               <U+271B>               <U+261B>               <U+261B>                   <U+270C>           <U+271B>   <U+2729>                             <U+270C>           <U+271B>                        <U+260E>       <U+260E>                                                  <U+261B>           <U+271B>               <U+260E>   <U+270C>                       <U+2729>
                                                                                 <U+2704>                                                                                                         <U+2704>       <U+2712>                    <U+2721>           <U+2704>       <U+2704>                                              <U+2704>                                                                                     <U+2704>   <U+2721>                    <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                             <U+260E>               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+271B>
                                                     <U+271A>               <U+271A>           <U+271A>                                                                                                 <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>       <U+271A>
                                                                             <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                             <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                      <U+2729>                                                              <U+270C>                                   <U+270C>           <U+2704>                                     <U+2706>           <U+270C>                                                <U+2729>                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>       <U+260E>
                  <U+2712>                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                             <U+2704>        <U+2712>       <U+2704>       <U+2712>                                              <U+2713>                       <U+2713>   <U+270C>                       <U+2729>                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2713>
                                                             <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                             <U+271C>
                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                 <U+2702>                                                                                                   <U+2704>                         <U+2702>                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2718>
                                                                             <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2719>                                   <U+2702>
                                             <U+2718>
                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                     <U+270C>                                                                     <U+2713>                                <U+2713>       <U+260E>   <U+2729>       <U+261B>           <U+2713>                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                     <U+261B>
              <U+261E>           <U+2712>                                                              <U+2704>                                   <U+2712>                                                             <U+2712>                                                                                                               <U+2704>                                               <U+2727>                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2729>                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>                                                       <U+2720>                                             <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                     <U+271C>                                                                                                                             <U+271C>
                              Bryostatin 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Doxorubicin
                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                             <U+2702>
                                             <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pazopanib
                                                                     <U+271C>                                                                               <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+270C>                   <U+2706>                                                                                 <U+260E>            <U+270C>           <U+2713>                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>                        <U+260E>
              <U+261E>       <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2712>                                                    <U+261E>                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                         <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                 <U+2713>                           <U+2720>           <U+2713>                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271F>
                                                                                 <U+260E>                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>               <U+2702>                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                             <U+2702>                               <U+2704>
                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                     <U+271C>                               <U+270C>                                                                                     <U+260E>
                      <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+261B>           <U+2706>                                                                          <U+2729>                                                                                     <U+270C>                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2712>
              <U+2720>                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                                                 <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                     <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>                                                                <U+260E>                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                             <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2605>                       <U+2704>
                                                     <U+2718>                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                             <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2719>
                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                 <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                         <U+271E>                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                     <U+260E>                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261E>                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                     <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>                    <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                             <U+2719>
                      <U+271D>                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>                                                                            <U+2706>                                                                                  <U+2729>
                                                                                                     <U+2723>                                                                                 <U+2723>
                  <U+272B>
                                                     <U+2701>               <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>                             <U+2701>                                <U+271D>                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                  <U+2726>
                                             <U+2702>                                   <U+2605>                                                   <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                             <U+2706>                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2712>                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2722>                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                     <U+271E>
                                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                     <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                 <U+2701>                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2712>                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                             <U+272A>                                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                      <U+2720>
              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                             <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2727>                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                             <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272A>
                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                 <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                             <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                             <U+271C>
                                                                         <U+2702>

                                                                                                                                                                                   REPLACEMENT SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8/14
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Avg. Prediction Accuracy Gain (%) in Validation Datasets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIG. 3B-3
                                                                      QS11
                                                                                                               AKT inhibitor VIII           JNK Inhibitor VIII
                      Rapamycin
                                                                                                                                                                                     Shikonin
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lapatinib           Erlotinib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Parthenolide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Paclitaxel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CMK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nilotinib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GDC0941
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Roscovitine
                  <U+2713>                   <U+2706>       <U+260E>   <U+261B>           <U+260E>                    <U+260E>       <U+260E>               <U+260E>                            <U+260E>                            <U+2704>       <U+260E>                                          <U+2713>                                          <U+2713>                <U+270C>       <U+270C>       <U+261B>               <U+270C>                   <U+260E>               <U+270C>           <U+271C>       <U+2713>   <U+261B>                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                               <U+261E>                                                                                                                                            <U+2704>                                                                   <U+2712>               <U+2712>                                                                     <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272A>
                                  <U+2729>                   <U+2713>                                <U+261B>                                                                             <U+271B>                                                                                                                      <U+270C>       <U+261B>       <U+261B>       <U+270C>       <U+2729>                           <U+2729>       <U+261B>                                     <U+2706>                     <U+260E>
                  <U+2704>                       <U+261E>                   <U+2712>                <U+2721>               <U+2721>           <U+2712>                            <U+2712>                                    <U+2712>                                          <U+2712>                   <U+2704>                      <U+2704>                <U+261E>                                               <U+261E>                                   <U+261E>       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271A>
                  <U+2706>               <U+270C>                       <U+261B>                                        <U+2713>                                                                         <U+2706>                                                          <U+2729>                          <U+260E>                <U+261B>           <U+2706>                               <U+260E>                           <U+260E>
                                          <U+261E>                                        <U+2704>   <U+2721>               <U+261E>                                <U+2704>                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                               <U+261E>       <U+2721>           <U+2704>               <U+2704>                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+261E>           <U+2712>                 <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                  Salubrinal
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2718>
                  <U+2706>                   <U+260E>       <U+2706>           <U+261B>                        <U+2713>       <U+2706>   <U+2729>                                                                             <U+2706>                                                                                 <U+2729>                                <U+260E>                                                                           <U+2706>                     <U+270C>                     <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2721>                       <U+2704>                                           <U+2712>           <U+2721>           <U+2712>   <U+261E>                   <U+2712>                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                       <U+2720>                            <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2605>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                 Cyclopamine
                  <U+260E>                       <U+2729>                                    <U+270C>                   <U+2713>                                                                                                                    <U+2706>               <U+2729>                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>                <U+2721>               <U+2721>                   <U+2712>                                                           <U+2712>                                       <U+2712>
                                                          <U+2720>                            <U+2720>                                                                                 <U+2720>                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2722>
                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271E>                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+261B>                                                                   <U+260E>                                                                               <U+261B>
              <U+2721>                               <U+2712>                                                    <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>                                                <U+2721>                                                               <U+2712>                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702>                                                   <U+2717>
                                      <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>                                                                        <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>
              <U+2720>                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2720>                               <U+2720>                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                   <U+2725>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E>
                                                              <U+272B>                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2720>                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                        <U+2720>
                  <U+2724>
                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>                           <U+271F>                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                   <U+272A>
                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2723>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>

                                               <U+2605><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                             Pr<U+2761><U+275E> <U+275D>t<U+275B><U+275C> <U+2767> t<U+2461> <U+2666><U+2701> <U+2749><U+275B>s<U+275B>t <U+2665> <U+275C> |<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2761>
                      <U+276F>s <U+2665><U+2702> <U+2736><U+273D><U+2735> <U+276F><U+2665> q<U+2704><U+2761> Pr<U+2761><U+275E> <U+275D>t <U+2708><U+2761> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E><U+2761><U+2767> <U+2665><U+2702> <U+275A><U+2761><U+275D><U+2764><U+2665> q<U+2704><U+2761>s
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2727>
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2726>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2719>   <U+2723>
              <U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2738>
              <U+2718>
              <U+2717>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2715>
              <U+274B>
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2737>
                  <U+2723>
                  <U+2724>
                  <U+2723>
                      <U+271C><U+273A>       <U+273A><U+2722>        <U+273A><U+273A>        <U+273B><U+2722>        <U+273B><U+273A>        <U+273C><U+2722>         <U+273C><U+273A>
                           <U+260E><U+2706><U+2763><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+270E> <U+260E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2709><U+271F> <U+270F><U+261E><U+2711> <U+272D><U+272A><U+272E> <U+261B><U+270E> <U+2725><U+270F><U+2712><U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2713><U+270F><U+270C><U+270F><U+2714><U+2720><U+270C><U+2714>
                                           <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2739><U+2746>

                                                   <U+261E><U+2723><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                       ¦<U+2665><U+275D>r<U+2761><U+275B>s<U+2761> <U+2710><U+2665> <U+2749><U+275B>s<U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2710><U+275C> |<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2761> Pr<U+2761><U+275E><U+2710><U+275D>t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2710><U+2767><U+2710>t<U+2461> <U+2756><U+2708><U+2761>r <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2765><U+2666>r<U+2710>t<U+2461> <U+2748><U+2767><U+275B>ss<U+2710><U+2762><U+2710><U+2761>r
                                 <U+276F>s<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2736><U+273D><U+2735> <U+276F><U+2665><U+2710>q<U+2709><U+2761> Pr<U+2761><U+275E><U+2710><U+275D>t<U+2710><U+2708><U+2761> <U+25BC><U+2666><U+275E><U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275A> <U+2761><U+275D><U+2764><U+2665><U+2710>q<U+2709><U+2761>s
                   <U+271B>
                   <U+2722>
                   <U+271A>
                   <U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717>
              <U+2716>    <U+271B>
              <U+2715>    <U+271C>
              <U+2712>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2711>
              <U+274B>
                   <U+271A>
                   <U+271C>
                   <U+271B>
                   <U+271A>
                               <U+2718>           <U+273A>          <U+2719><U+2718>          <U+2719><U+273A>          <U+2737><U+2718>          <U+2737><U+273A>
                            <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2733> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2746><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2704><U+261E><U+271E><U+270C> <U+25CF><U+261E><U+271D><U+2721> <U+272D><U+272A><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2721> <U+2771><U+261E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+270F><U+260E><U+271F><U+270F>
                                                 <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2739><U+2747>

                                          <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                            Pr<U+2761> <U+2710><U+275D><U+2701><U+275B><U+2702><U+2710><U+2767><U+2710><U+2701><U+2461> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2749><U+275B><U+2704><U+275B><U+2701><U+2710><U+2665><U+2710><U+2702> |<U+2761><U+2704><U+260E><U+2666><U+2665><U+2704><U+2761>
                              <U+2771><U+275B>r<U+2710><U+2761><U+2704> <U+2707><U+2710><U+2701><U+2764> <U+2749><U+2710><U+2762><U+2762><U+2761>r<U+2761><U+2665><U+2701> <U+2749><U+275B><U+2701><U+275B> <U+275A><U+2461><U+260E><U+2761><U+2704>
                   <U+271B>
                   <U+2738>
                       <U+2702><U+2746><U+2706><U+2746><U+270E>¦<U+25CF><U+25CF>
                       <U+260E><U+2460><U+2663><U+2704><U+260E><U+270F><U+270F><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721>
                   <U+271A>   <U+2748><U+25C6><U+2771>
                   <U+2738>
                   <U+271B>
                   <U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2717>    <U+271A>
              <U+2716>    <U+2722>
              <U+2715>
              <U+2712>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+271B>
              <U+274B>    <U+271C>
                   <U+271A>
                   <U+271C>
                   <U+271B>
                   <U+271A>
                       <U+2739><U+273D>       <U+273A><U+2737>         <U+273A><U+273D>           <U+273B><U+2737>     <U+273B><U+273D>         <U+273C><U+2737>
                        <U+2746> <U+2701><U+2733> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2746><U+271E><U+271E><U+261B><U+2704><U+261E><U+271E><U+270C> <U+272D><U+272A><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2721> <U+2771><U+261E><U+270D><U+271D><U+2706><U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270E><U+261E><U+271F><U+261E><U+270F><U+260E><U+271F><U+270F>
                                         <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273A>   <U+2746>

                                        <U+261E><U+2701><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+275E><U+2704><U+275D>t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2704><U+2767><U+2704>t<U+2461> <U+260E><U+2762> <U+2706><U+275B><U+271D><U+275B>t<U+2704><U+271E><U+2704><U+275C> <U+271F><U+2702><U+271D><U+2720><U+260E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                           <U+2721><U+275B><U+2701><U+2704><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2707><U+2704>t<U+2764> <U+2706><U+2704><U+2762><U+2762><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E>t <U+2706><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+275A><U+2461><U+2720><U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+2712><U+271B><U+270D>
              <U+271B><U+2715>
              <U+2712><U+2715>     <U+2735><U+273C>
              <U+271A>
              <U+2714><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+2712>
              <U+2715><U+270E>
              <U+2719><U+270F><U+2715>    <U+273A><U+273B>
              <U+2718>
              <U+2714><U+270F>
              <U+2717>
              <U+272D><U+272A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+2711>     <U+2735><U+273B>
              <U+2715><U+270C>
              <U+2709><U+2711>
              <U+2711><U+261B>
              <U+2714><U+2713>     <U+273A><U+273A>
              <U+2712><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F>
              <U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+261E>
              <U+2733><U+2763>     <U+2735><U+273A>
              <U+2708><U+261B>
                          <U+2748><U+25C6><U+2771>         <U+2761><U+2460><U+2663>r<U+2761>ss<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>      P<U+2746>|<U+2746><U+2749>¦<U+25CF><U+25BC>
                                   <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273A><U+2747>

                                                   <U+261E><U+2725><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                  <U+2749><U+275B>s<U+275B>t <U+2665> <U+275C> |<U+2761>s<U+2663><U+2666><U+2665>s<U+2761> P<U+2701><U+2761><U+275E> <U+275D>t<U+275B><U+275C> <U+2767> t<U+2702> <U+2756><U+2708><U+2761><U+2701> <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2765><U+2666><U+2701> t<U+2702> <U+2704><U+2767><U+275B>ss <U+2762> <U+2761><U+2701>
                                <U+2771><U+275B><U+2701> <U+2761>s <U+2707> t<U+260E> <U+2749> <U+2762><U+2762><U+2761><U+2701><U+2761><U+2665>t <U+2749><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+275A><U+2702><U+2663><U+2761>s
                  <U+2719>
                  <U+2738>
                         <U+271D><U+2746><U+271C><U+2746><U+2711>¦<U+25CF><U+2722>
                         <U+271E><U+2460><U+2723>r<U+271E><U+2712><U+2712><U+2710><U+261E><U+270C>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+2738>      <U+2724><U+25C6><U+270E>
                  <U+2719>
                  <U+271B>
              <U+2718>   <U+2735>
              <U+2717>   <U+271B>
              <U+2716>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2715>
              q
              <U+2714>   <U+2719>
              <U+2713>
              <U+274B>   <U+271A>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+271A>
                  <U+2719>
                  <U+2735>
                        <U+261B><U+2737><U+2733><U+273A>       <U+2737><U+2733><U+273A>       <U+273C><U+2733><U+273A>           <U+2736><U+2737>     <U+2736><U+273D>         <U+2737><U+2737>
                        <U+2746><U+2706><U+2763><U+2733> <U+271D>r<U+271E><U+271F><U+2710><U+2720><U+2721><U+2710><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2746><U+2720><U+2720><U+2709>r <U+270D><U+2720><U+2461> <U+25CF><U+270D><U+2710><U+270C> <U+272D><U+272A><U+272E> <U+2710><U+270C> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2710><U+271F><U+270D><U+2721><U+2710><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+2712><U+271E><U+2721><U+2712>
                                           <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273A><U+2748>

                                                <U+261E><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D>
                     <U+2701><U+275B><U+2702><U+275B>t<U+2704><U+260E><U+2704><U+275C> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271F><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+275E><U+2704><U+275D>t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2704><U+2767><U+2704>t<U+2461> <U+2756><U+2708><U+271D><U+2721> <U+261B><U+275B><U+2765><U+271F><U+2721><U+2704>t<U+2461> <U+261E><U+2767><U+275B><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704><U+2762><U+2704><U+271D><U+2721>
<removed-date>
                                 <U+270C><U+275B><U+2721><U+2704><U+271D><U+2702> <U+2707><U+2704>t<U+2764> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2762><U+2762><U+271D><U+2721><U+271D><U+260E>t <U+2701><U+275B>t<U+275B> <U+275A><U+2461><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702>
              <U+2716><U+2724><U+2712>
              <U+2724><U+2719>
              <U+2716><U+2719>
              <U+2723>      <U+2735><U+2737>
              <U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+2714><U+2719>
              <U+2722><U+2714><U+2713><U+2719>
              <U+271C>      <U+273A><U+2736>
              <U+2714><U+2718><U+272E>
              <U+272A><U+272D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2714><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+271B>      <U+2735><U+2736>
              <U+271A><U+2715>
              <U+2719><U+2711>
              <U+2709><U+2715>
              <U+2715><U+270D>
                     <U+273A>
              <U+2718><U+2717>
              <U+2714><U+2716>
              <U+2714><U+2715><U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2711>
              <U+270F><U+2733>     <U+2735>
              <U+2763><U+270E>
              <U+270D>
                                <U+2748><U+25C6><U+2771>          <U+2761><U+2460><U+2663>r<U+2761>ss<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>      P<U+2746>|<U+2746> ¦<U+25CF><U+25BC>
                                           <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+273A><U+2749>

