 Wizard Stander        Inventor: Robert Tough
Abstract
The Wizard Stander is a device that uses an adjustable upper shin pivot support to create a
mechanical advantage as a fulcrum in the correct position on the shin to facilitate repeated sit
to-stand motion for rehabilitation purposes, or just to allow or assist safer standing. The tilting
mechanism of the upper shin pivot support enables a person to be progressively challenged
during the transition between sitting and standing as their mobility improves.

Wizard Stander
Figure 3.
Page|I3

          Editorial Note
               <removed-apn>
There are five pages of description only

 Wizard Stander         Inventor: Robert Tough
Background of the Invention
Reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
conventional design, or to any matter which is indicated as known to the inventor, is not, and
should not be taken as an acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the
prior publication, conventional design, or known matter constitutes prior art or forms part of the
common general knowledge in the field of endeavor to which this relates.
There is currently no commercially available device which provides support for knees and
ankles so that a person with limited mobility can safely transition between sitting and standing
while holding a wall bar and which helps a person maintain the ability to remain standing safely
at a wall bar.
Some home-made devices have been created for this purpose. These include foot blocks and
wall mounted knee blocks.
Figure 1. Portable Foot Block:
The home-made block is positioned on the floor between the wall and the person's feet to
prevent the feet from sliding forward. If a person leans back as they pull up into standing their
toes can push forward into the block, creating painful pressure or injury as well as a risk of
circulatory problems in diabetics. People with dementia who attempt to step up onto the block
are placed at a high risk of falling.
Figure 2. Knee Block:
A padded home-made knee block attached to a wall aims to prevent the knees from collapsing
forward during sit-to-stand exercises. There is no adjustment available to accommodate for
different leg lengths. This creates undue pressure on the knees of some users. It is not portable
so cannot be used in different locations as required. If a person leans back as they pull up into
standing, their feet can slide under the knee block causing pain and injury to their shins from
pressure against the base of the block.
Manual Assist:
Another option is for nurses to provide physical assistance. If a person tends to slide their feet
forward and /or lacks knee control while standing up, nurses need to use their own feet and
knees to block the unwanted leg movements. This is often an awkward position for nurses to
maintain as they carry out care procedures while the person remains standing at a wall bar (e.g.
dressing/undressing, changing incontinence aids, swapping a wheelchair with a shower chair).
This procedure places nurses at increased risk of manual handling injuries.

 Wizard Stander         Inventor: Robert Tough
Summary of the Invention
In the first aspect device facilitating therapeutic exercise, the device includes a lower shin
support stop, mounted on a base, wherein the wall standoff adjustment slide has a locking
system to hold the device at the correct distance from the wall so as to allow for the required
adjustment needed for safe facilitation of sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit for people of different
heights.
In one form, the lower shin support stop acts as a support for the feet and stops any unwanted
forward movement of the feet.
In one form, the upper shin pivot support has an adjustable sliding component and a locking
system to hold the upper shin support at the correct height needed for multiple users' different
leg lengths or to vary the amount of assistance provided to the user.
In one form, the upper shin pivot support acts as a fulcrum for the legs to enable those with
reduced strength or mobility to exercise and stand for longer periods of time safely.
In one form the upper shin pivot support locates the knees into the correct position for safety
and comfort which aids stability and ability plus confidence.
In one form the upper shin pivot support by use of its tilt adjustments can assist to make it
easier or more challenging to transition between sitting and standing just by the position set.
In one form the adjustability of the upper pivot shin support, which is unique to this device,
prevents leg collapse and enables a safely controlled descent back into a sitting position.

 Wizard Stander          Inventor: Robert Tough
In order that the present invention can be more readily understood, reference will now be made
to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred embodiment of the invention.
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
Please note this device 100 invention is to be used with a wall rail at all times for sit-to-stand
and stand-to-sit exercises, transfers etc.
Figure 4 is a perspective view of the assemblies of the present device according to an
embodiment of the present invention which shows the basic assemblies that create the
invention.
10.      Footplate platform
12.      Tube frame main Chassis
14.       Wall Standoff assembly
16.       Upper shin pivot support assembly
Figure 5 illustrates the device 100 according to the present invention. The device in part is
constructed of a footplate platform 10. The footplate platform 10 is what holds all the
components of the device and is the platform and chassis of the device. It is what the person
stands on.
The main frame components 12, 12A, 12B,12c are attached to this said footplate 10. The tube
main frame chassis 12 consists of the lower and upper frame tube. To allow the tilt and height
adjustments necessary for different leg lengths and knee settings, the upright vertical section
includes a locking arrangement, 16A which allows for the height adjustments and a sliding
component 18 with built-in tilt adjustment. This is needed to be able to change the tilt angle as a
person improves their abilities.
This same tube main frame 12 incorporates the lateral foot guard guides12B that guide the feet
into the correct position. Also supported by the same tube main frame is the lower shin support
stop 12c that holds and prevents the forward movement of the feet to stop the person slipping
as they try to stand up or sit down. This same frame supports the wall standoff component 14
and 14B of the device. The wall standoff arrangement has adjustability on a sliding component
and has a lock adjustment 14A to lock the wall standoff 14, at the correct distance from the wall.
14B is the wall contact which helps support and prevent forward movement of the device
invention 100 and keeps it against the wall.
In the preferred embodiment the upper shin pivot support comprises of 16, 16A, 16B and 16C
which has its own adjustment component the upper shin support lock 16A built into it on the
section of vertical frame 12. the tube frame main chassis, the top most section 16 the upper
shin support tube and 16B the upper shin pivot support, area 16B has a lock adjustment 16A.

 Wizard Stander          Inventor: Robert Tough
Also built into this arrangement is the knee separator support guide 16C which holds the knees
apart.
In a further embodiment of the present invention the upper shin pivot support comprising 16,
16A, 16B and 16C may be provided with more adjustability for even better support of the
person and the lower shin support stop 12C may be provided with more adjustability as well.
Variations
It will of course be realized that while the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative
example of this invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would be
apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and ambit of this
invention as is herein set forth.
Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word "comprise" and variations of
that word such as "comprising" are not intended to exclude other additives, components,
integers or steps.

Wizard Stander          Inventor: Robert Tough
Brief Description of the Drawings
Figure Shows the use of a Portable Foot Block.
Figure 2 Shows the use of a knee block
Figure 3 is a perspective view of a stand assist device according to one embodiment of the
present invention;
Figure 4 is a perspective view of the assemblies of the present device according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
Consisting of
10.       Footplate platform
12.      Tube frame main Chassis
14.       Wall Standoff assembly
16.        Upper shin pivot support assembly
Figure 5 is a breakdown of assemblies of the present device.
Consisting of
10.      Footplate platform
12.     Tube frame main chassis
12a.    Wall standoff tube
12b.     Lateral foot guard guides
12c.    Lower shin support stop
14.     Wall standoff
14a.    Wall standoff adjustment system
14b.    Wall standoff pad
16.     Upper shin support tube
16a.    Upper shin support lock
16b.   Upper shin pivot assembly
16c.    Knee separator support guide
18.    Tilt angle adjuster

       Editorial Note
           <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

 Wizard Stander          Inventor: Robert Tough
Claims
What is claimed is:
1. A device for facilitating safe standing and exercise of an individual comprising:
- an upper shin pivot support;
- a knee separator support guide;
- two lateral foot guard guides;
- a lower shin support stop;
- a distance adjustable wall standoff support.
2. A device as claimed in claim 1, where in the upper shin pivot support and knee separator is
adjustable with respect to height above the foot plate, and is tilt adjustable for angle also.
3. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lateral foot guard and support stop are built into
the device.
4. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lower shin, is built into the device.
5. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein a distance adjustable wall standoff holds the device
off from the wall, with respect to distance from the wall.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
