                                                    - 33
   ABSTRACT
   This invention relates to a breath indicator that is receivable by a part of a breathing assistance
   apparatus that supplies gas to a patient. The indicator comprises an elongate body having a gas
   sampling end and an attachment end. The attachment end is adapted to attach to a part of a
 5 breathing assistance apparatus and for locating the gas sampling end. The gas sampling end is to
   be located in a region where gas from the patient is to be exhaled. The gas sampling end being in
   communication with a sensor comprising a detector material changeable between a first visual
   indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of the patient, and a second visual indicator state
   relating to an exhalation phase of the patient. The detector material is capable of changing
10 between the visual indicator states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond with the
   inhalation and exhalation phases of the patient.

               1/6
       2
         p   P
                    4
           FIGURE 1
  10
FIGURE 2

                                                     -1
                                        "BREATH INDICATOR"
   FIELD OF INVENTION
            The present invention relates to a breath indicator for detecting inhalation or exhalation
   for use in conjunction with or as part of a breathing assistance apparatus which is used for
 5 resuscitating and/or supplying gases to an infant.
   BACKGROUND
            It is known to apply Positive End Expiratory Pressure (PEEP) and controlled Peak
   Inspiratory Pressure (PIP) during respiration, resuscitation or assisted respiration (ventilation) for
10 patients, such as neonates or infants who require breathing assistance. In applying PEEP, the
   patient, such as an infant's upper airway and lungs are held open by the applied pressure. An
   example of an apparatus suitable for this is disclosed in US2004/0040559.
            It is important for a medical professional to be able to establish and verify the breathing
   of the infant. When undergoing assisted ventilation or respiration, the neonatal infant will
15 receive a continuous flow of gases to their airway. These gases will either be atmospheric,
   atmospheric with supplementary added oxygen, or (rarely) pure oxygen. When the patient infant
   exhales against the continuous flow of gases, they will breathe out gases that have a higher
   concentration of CO 2 than those which enter their lungs.
            It is known to use CO 2 detectors with adult ventilation systems and as part of breathing
20 masks. US 4,945,918 discloses using a CO 2 detector with a ventilation system to detect the
   patient's circulatory status. US 5,857,460 discloses a mask with a gas sensor positioned on the
   mask.
            In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
25 providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such
   documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the
   common general knowledge in the art.
30 SUMMARY OF INVENTION
            It is an object of the present invention to provide a breath indicator for use with a
   breathing assistance apparatus, or a breathing assistance apparatus with a breath indicator that
   will at least provide the healthcare industry with a useful choice.
            In a first aspect the invention can be said to broadly consist of breath indicator receivable
35 by a part of a breathing assistance apparatus that supplies gas to a patient, the indicator

                                                      -2
   comprising:
            an elongate body having a gas sampling end and an attachment end,
            the attachment end adapted to attach to a part of a breathing assistance apparatus and for
   locating the gas sampling end, and the gas sampling end to be located in a region where gas from
 5 the patient is to be exhaled,
            the gas sampling end being in communication with a sensor comprising a detector
   material changeable between a first visual indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of the
   patient, and a second visual indicator state relating to an exhalation phase of the patient, and
            wherein the detector material is capable of changing between the visual indicator states at
10 a sufficient rate to substantially correspond with the inhalation and exhalation phases of the
   patient.
            Preferably the detecting material is CO 2 detecting material.
            Preferably the sensor comprises CO 2 detecting material.
            Preferably the detecting material changes from a first visual indicator state to a second
15 indicator state when exposed to gas having CO 2 concentration greater than that normally found
   in atmospheric air.
            Preferably the detecting material changes from a second visual indicator state to a first
   indicator state when exposed to gas having CO 2 concentration the same or substantially similar
   to those normally found in atmospheric air.
20          Preferably the detecting material changes from the first visual indicator state (a first
   colour) to a second visual indicator state (a second colour) when exposed to gas having a
   concentration by volume of at least about 5% or more CO 2.
            Preferably the visual indicator state of the detecting material can be optically or visually
   observed by a user of a breathing assistance apparatus for a patient.
25          Preferably in-use, end-tidal or breath-by-breath CO 2 present within gas exhaled by a
   patient is optically or visually observable by a user by change in visual indictor state of the
   detecting material.
            Preferably at least a part of the attachment end remains external of a part of a breathing
   assistance apparatus to which the breath indicator is attached.
30          Preferably the attachment end is provided substantially perpendicular to the elongate
   body.
            Preferably the attachment end is disk-shaped.
            Preferably the attachment end is formed as a handle portion including a handle flange
   extending outwards perpendicularly from the end of the attachment end.
35          Preferably said breath indicator further comprises a stopping flange located partway along

                                                     -3
   said elongate body and extending substantially perpendicularly from said body, said flange
   located between said attachment end and said sampling end.
            Preferably the breath indicator is receivable by a patient interface.
            Preferably the patient interface comprises any one or combination of the following: a face
 5 mask, an oral mask, an oronasal mask, a nasal mask, one or a pair of nasal prongs, an
   endotracheal tube, a T-piece resuscitator apparatus, gas flow regulator or gas pressure regulator
   associated with any one or more of these.
            Preferably the breath indicator is receivable by a face mask.
            Preferably the breath indicator is receivable by a T-piece breathing assistance apparatus.
10          Preferably the exterior surface of the elongate body is substantially smooth, or otherwise
   shaped, such that, in-use the elongate body does not increase the resistance to flow of gas
   through a part of a breathing assistance apparatus to which the indicator is attached.
            Preferably the elongate body has an outer diameter of about 1 mm to about 5 mm, and a
   length of about 30 mm to about 60 mm.
15          Preferably the gas sampling end of the elongate body comprises a gas inlet, the inlet being
   in fluid communication with the sensor via a passageway.
            Preferably a pressure difference exists between the gas sampling end and the attachment
   end when in use.
            Preferably the sensor comprising the detecting material is provided in-line with the
20 passageway.
            Preferably the passageway extends from the gas sampling end of the elongate body to the
   sensor.
            Preferably the passageway provides for a gas flow path extending from the breath
   indicator gas inlet to one or more breath indicator gas outlets, the outlets in fluid communication
25 with the surrounding atmosphere external of the resuscitation system, the sensor positionable for
   contact with the gas flow path through the passageway.
            Preferably the sensor with detecting material is located in a region adjacent the
   attachment end, and wherein the attachment end, or at least a part of the attachment end, is
   formed of a visually transparent material allowing a user to visually detect changes between the
30 first and second visual indicator states of the detector material.
            Preferably the attachment end houses the sensor.
            Preferably the attachment end comprises a housing locating the sensor.
            Preferably at least a part of the attachment end (or housing) is formed of a visually
   transparent material, such that in-use, a user is able to visually detect changes between the first
35 and second visual indicator states of the detector material.

                                                     -4
           Preferably the elongate body has a length sufficient to allow the gas sampling end to be
   located in a region where gas from the patient is to be exhaled, and where the attachment end is
   located in a position attached to a part of a breathing assistance apparatus.
           Preferably the sampling end and sensor are substantially adjacent, or are the same part of
 5 region of the elongate body.
           Preferably the sensor is formed as a hollow section of the sampling end, the hollow
   section filled with an indicator dye, the wall or shell of said hollow section having pores to allow
   gases to pass through the wall or shell and contact the indicator dye, the wall or shell substantially
   clear or translucent to allow a user to view the colour of the dye through the wall or shell.
10         Preferably the detecting material is a layer of indicator dye applied to the outside surface
   of the sampling end, the detecting material applied to at least part of the area or region of the
   elongate body near the sampling end.
           Preferably the sampling end is at least partly (preferably wholly) formed from detecting
   material and attached or connected to the remainder of the elongate body.
15         Preferably said detecting material is applied to the entire area of said elongate body.
           Preferably said detecting material is a layer of material infused with a CO 2 detecting
   material and applied to the outside surface of the sampling end.
           Preferably the elongate body includes a plurality of apertures.
           Preferably the apertures are arranged in a substantially honeycomb pattern.
20         Preferably the apertures are circular, oval, square, rectangular or triangular-shaped.
           Preferably the apertures are positioned adjacent to the attachment end of the elongate
   body.
           Preferably the apertures are positioned about 1 mm to about 15 mm along the elongate
   body from the attachment end.
25         Preferably the apertures are positioned about 7 mm to about 10 mm along the elongate
   body from the attachment end.
           Preferably the apertures are positioned adjacent to the sensor.
           Preferably the apertures are positioned about 1mm to about 15 mm along the elongate
   body from the sampling end.
30         Preferably the apertures are positioned about 7 mm to about 10 mm along the elongate
   body from the sampling end.
           Preferably in-use the elongate body is inserted into a breathing assistance apparatus that
   supplies gas to a patient, such that the sampling end is located proximate to the mouth and nose
   of the patient and such that the apertures are positioned in a flow of gas from an inlet to the
35 breathing assistance apparatus, and wherein, in-use, gas from the inlet flow through the apertures

                                                      -5
   generates suction in the breathing assistance apparatus to draw gas exhaled by a patient toward
   the sensor, such that exhaled gas can come into contact with the detecting material.
            Preferably, in use the attachment end, when attached to a part of a resuscitator system,
   aligns the elongate body with apertures with flow of gas from the inlet to the breathing assistance
 5 apparatus.
            Preferably the breathing assistance apparatus is, or forms a part of, a resuscitator system.
            Accordingly, in a further aspect the invention can be said to broadly consist of a breath
   indicator as part of a resuscitator system for an infant that supplies gases to an infant via a face
   mask, comprising:
10          an elongate body having a sensing end and an attachment end, said sensing end
   comprising detecting material which changes between two visual indicator states, a first visual
   indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of the infant, and a second visual indicator state
   relating to an exhalation phase, the detecting material capable of changing between the visual
   indicator states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond to inhalation and exhalation
15 changes of the infant to indicate inhalation and exhalation, said elongate body adapted so that in
   use, said sensing end can be located proximate to the mouth and/or nose of said infant.
            Preferably the sensing end comprises CO 2 detecting material which can change colour
   from a base colour being the first visual indicator state to a detection colour being the second
   visual indicator state when exposed to gases which have CO 2 concentration greater than that
20 normally found in atmospheric air, and back to the base colour when exposed to gases which
   have CO 2 concentrations the same or similar to those found in atmospheric air, so as to allow a
   medical professional viewing said first end to detect end-tidal or breath-by-breath CO 2 present
   within said breathing assistance apparatus in use.
            Preferably said breath indicator further comprises a stopping flange located partway along
25 said elongate body and extending substantially perpendicularly from said body, said flange
   located between said attachment end and said sensing end.
            Preferably the detecting material changes colour from a base colour to a detecting colour
   when exposed to gases having a concentration by volume of at least 5% or more CO 2.
            Preferably said attachment end is formed as a handle portion that includes a handle flange
30 extending outwards perpendicularly from the end of said attachment end.
            Preferably said sensing end is formed as a hollow section, said hollow section filled with
   an indicator dye, the wall or shell of said hollow section having pores to allow gases to pass
   through said wall or shell and contact said indicator dye, said wall or shell substantially clear or
   translucent to allow a user to view the colour of the dye through said wall or shell.
35          Alternatively said detecting material is a layer of indicator dye applied to the outside

                                                     -6
   surface of said sensing end, said detecting material applied to at least part of the area of the
   elongate body near said sensing end.
           Alternatively wherein said sensing end is at least partly and preferably wholly formed
   from detecting material and attached or connected to the remainder of said elongate body.
 5         As a further alternative said detecting material is applied to the entire area of said elongate
   body.
           Preferably said detecting material is a layer of material infused with a CO 2 detecting
   material and applied to the outside surface of said sensing end.
           Preferably said indicator has an outer diameter between 1 mm and 5 mm, said indicator
10 also having a length of about 30 mm to about 60 mm, and said elongate body being substantially
   smooth to not increase the resistance to flow.
           Preferably said elongate indicator includes a plurality of apertures in said indicator
           Preferably said apertures are preferably arranged in a honeycomb pattern.
           Preferably said apertures may be any shape including circular, oval, square, rectangular or
15 triangular.
           Preferably said apertures are positioned adjacent said attachment end of said indicator.
           More preferably said apertures are positioned about 1 mm to about 15mm away and
   preferably about 7 mm to about 10 mm away from said attachment end along said elongate body.
           Alternatively said apertures are positioned adjacent to said sensing end.
20         In the alternative said apertures are positioned anywhere from about 1 mm to about
   15mm away but preferably about 7 mm to about 1 0mm away from said sensing end along said
   elongate body.
           Preferably in use said indicator is inserted into a breathing assistance apparatus that
   supplies gases to an infant, such that said sensing end is located proximate to the mouth and nose
25 of the infant and such that said apertures are positioned in a flow of gases from an inlet of the
   breathing assistance apparatus, wherein use gases from the inlet flow through said apertures
   creating suction in said breathing assistance apparatus to draw gases exhaled by an infant toward
   said indicator such that exhaled gases can come into contact with said detecting material.
           Preferably said apertures are further positioned to reduce the resistance of the flow of
30 gases from the inlet.
           Preferably in-use the locking feature positions the apertures such that the apertures are
   aligned with the flow of gases from the inlet and/or such that said apertures are positioned to
   reduce the resistance of the flow of gases from the inlet.
           In another aspect the invention can be said to broadly consist of a breathing assistance
35 apparatus for use as part of a resuscitation system for an infant, the breathing assistance

                                                       -7
   apparatus comprising:
            a manifold section, said manifold section hollow to define a gases space, a gases inlet
   passing from outside said manifold section into said gases space, said gases inlet adapted for
   connection to a gases conduit or similar to receive a continuous flow of gases at a pressure above
 5 atmospheric and further adapted to allow said continuous flow of gases to enter said gases space,
   said continuous flow of gases forming a gases stream, a gases outlet from said manifold, in use
   said gases stream passing through said outlet to a user or patient, a device inlet on said manifold
   section adapted to allow items to pass into said gases space from outside said manifold section, a
   breath indicator formed from an elongate body having a sensing end and an attachment end, said
10 sensing end comprising detecting material which changes between two visual indicator states, a
   first visual indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of the infant, a second visual indicator
   state relating to an exhalation phase, the detecting material capable of changing between the
   visual indicator states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond to inhalation and exhalation
   changes of the infant to indicate inhalation and exhalation, said breath indicator formed
15 separately from said manifold, said breath indicator disposed into said device inlet so that said
   sensing end protrudes into said gases space and said sensing end is substantially proximate to at
   least the gases outlet.
            Preferably in-use infant exhales into the outlet and the gases space of the manifold and
   said breath indicator and said manifold section are mutually sized so that said sensing end in use
20 can be located at or close to an opening of the outlet, such that the sensing end is in the gases
   path of exhaled gases from the infant.
            Preferably at least part of said manifold section is translucent.
            More preferably at least that part of said manifold closest to said patient in use is
   translucent.
25          Preferably said breath indicator further comprises a stopping flange located partway along
   said elongate body and extending substantially perpendicularly from said body, said stopping
   flange located between said attachment end and said sensing end, in use said stopping flange
   contacting and abutting the perimeter of said device inlet and preventing further travel of said
   breath indicator through said device inlet.
30          Preferably wherein the breath indicator is characterised by the sensing end comprises
   CO 2 detecting material which can change colour from a base colour being the first visual
   indicator state to a detection colour being the second visual indicator state when exposed to gases
   which have CO 2 concentration greater than that normally found in atmospheric air, and back to
   the base colour when exposed to gases which have CO 2 concentrations the same or similar to
35 those found in atmospheric air, so as to allow a medical professional viewing said first end to

                                                    -8
   detect end-tidal or breath-by-breath CO 2 present within said breathing assistance apparatus in use
           More preferably the detecting material changes colour from a base colour to a detecting
   colour when exposed to gases having a concentration by volume of at least 5% or more CO 2.
           Preferably said attachment end is formed as a handle portion that includes a handle flange
 5 extending outwards perpendicularly from the end of said attachment end.
           Preferably a portion of the body of said breath indicator adjacent to said stopping flange
   and on the side opposite to said sensing end is formed as a handle portion.
           Preferably said sensing end is formed as a hollow section, said hollow section filled with
   an indicator dye, the wall or shell of said hollow section having pores to allow gases to pass
10 through said wall or shell and contact said indicator dye, said wall or shell substantially clear or
   translucent to allow a user to view the colour of the dye through said wall or shell.
           Alternatively said CO 2 detecting material is a layer of indicator dye applied to the outside
   surface of said sensing end.
           Alternatively said detecting material is a layer of indicator dye applied to the outside
15 surface of said sensing end of the breath indicator, said detecting material applied to at least part
   of the area of the elongate body near said sensing end of the breath indicator.
           Alternatively said sensing end of the breath indicator is at least partly and preferably
   wholly formed from detecting material and attached or connected to the remainder of said
   elongate body.
20         Alternatively said detecting material is applied to the entire area of said elongate body of
   the breath indicator.
           Alternatively said sensing end of said breath indicator is at least partly and preferably
   wholly formed from CO 2 detecting material and attached or connected to the remainder of said
   elongate body.
25         Alternatively said CO 2 detecting material is a layer of material infused with a CO 2
   detecting material and applied to the outside surface of said sensing end of the breath indicator.
           Preferably a duck billed valve is located in said device inlet, allowing the passage of items
   from the exterior to the interior of the manifold section and sealing to prevent the flow of gases
   from the interior to the exterior of said manifold section during use when no items are inserted,
30 during the insertion of items, for the duration of the time for which the items are inserted, and as
   the items are removed from the manifold section.
           Preferably said breath indicator further has a locking feature, said device inlet further
   having a fastening feature, said locking feature corresponding with and engaging with said
   fastening feature in use to retain said breath indicator within said device inlet.
35         In one form said CO 2 detecting is applied to at least part of an inside surface of said

                                                     -9
   manifold section.
            Preferably said indicator has an outer diameter between 1mm and 5mm, said indicator
   also having a length of about 30 mm to about 60 mm.
            Preferably said elongate indicator includes a plurality of apertures in said indicator
 5          Preferably said apertures are preferably arranged in a honeycomb pattern.
            Preferably said apertures may be any shape including circular, oval, square, rectangular or
   triangular.
            Preferably said apertures are positioned close to said attachment end of said indicator.
            Preferably said indicator is shaped to not increase resistance to the flow of gases through
10 said manifold section.
            Preferably in use said apertures are substantially aligned with the flow of gases into the
   manifold from the inlet such that said apertures are positioned in the flow of gases to create a
   suction in said breathing assistance apparatus that draws gases exhaled by an infant toward said
   indicator such that exhaled gases can come into contact with said detecting material.
15          More preferably said apertures are further positioned to reduce the resistance of the flow
   of gases from the inlet.
            Preferably said manifold section comprising a PEEP outlet opening from manifold to
   said atmosphere, said PEEP outlet including an aperture opening to atmosphere, said PEEP
   outlet capable of being occluded and unoccluded manually or automatically, said PEEP outlet
20 positioned substantially opposite to said inlet, gases flowing from said inlet to and out of said
   PEEP outlet when said PEEP outlet is unoccluded, said gases flowing through said apertures in
   said indicator and around said indicator, said flow of gases through said apertures causing a drop
   in pressure across said indicator or due to changing velocities of said gases flow, suction caused
   from said outlet toward said device inlet, said suction causing any exhaled gases from said infant
25 to be drawn toward said indicator.
            Preferably in use said locking feature positions the apertures in the flow of gases such
   that the apertures are positioned to reduce the effect on flow resistance of the flow of gases from
   the inlet.
            In yet another aspect the invention can be said to broadly consist in a breath indicator as
30 part of a resuscitator system for an infant that supplies gases to an infant via a face mask,
   comprising:
            a body having a sensing portion and an attachment portion, said sensing portion
   comprising detecting material which changes between two visual indicator states, a first visual
   indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of the infant, and a second visual indicator state
35 relating to an exhalation phase, the detecting material capable of changing between the visual

                                                      - 10
   indicator states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond to inhalation and exhalation
   changes of the infant to indicate inhalation and exhalation, where in use said indicator is inserted
   into a breathing assistance apparatus that supplies gases to an infant, such that said sensing
   portion is located proximate to the mouth and nose of the infant and such that said apertures are
 5 positioned in a flow of gases from an inlet of the breathing assistance apparatus, wherein use
   gases from the inlet flow through said apertures creating suction in said breathing assistance
   apparatus to draw gases exhaled by an infant toward said indicator such that exhaled gases can
   come into contact with said detecting material.
             In yet a further aspect the invention is said to broadly consist in a breathing assistance
10 apparatus for use as part of a resuscitation system for an infant, the breathing assistance
   apparatus comprising:
             a manifold section, said manifold section hollow to define a gases space, a gases inlet
   passing from outside said manifold section into said gases space, said gases inlet adapted for
   connection to a gases conduit or similar to receive a continuous flow of gases at a pressure above
15 atmospheric and further adapted to allow said continuous flow of gases to enter said gases space,
   said continuous flow of gases forming a gases stream, a gases outlet from said manifold, in use
   said gases stream passing through said outlet to a user or patient, a device inlet on said manifold
   section adapted to allow items to pass into said gases space from outside said manifold section, a
   breath indicator formed from a body having a sensing portion and an attachment portion, said
20 sensing portion comprising detecting material which changes between two visual indicator states,
   a first visual indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of the infant, and a second visual
   indicator state relating to an exhalation phase, the detecting material capable of changing between
   the visual indicator states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond to inhalation and
   exhalation changes of the infant to indicate inhalation and exhalation, where in use said indicator
25 is inserted into a breathing assistance apparatus that supplies gases to an infant, such that said
   sensing portion is located proximate to the mouth and nose of the infant and such that said
   apertures are positioned in a flow of gases from an inlet of the breathing assistance apparatus,
   wherein use gases from the inlet flow through said apertures creating suction in said breathing
   assistance apparatus to draw gases exhaled by an infant toward said indicator such that exhaled
30 gases can come into contact with said detecting material.
             To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction
   and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest themselves
   without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
   disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in any
35 sense limiting.

                                                    - 11
            This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features
   referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively, and any
   or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or features, and where specific
   integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which this invention
 5 relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
   The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the following
   gives examples only.
            The term "comprising" as used in the specification and claims, means "consisting at least
   in part of'. When interpreting a statement in this specification and claims that includes
10 "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be present. Related
   terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the same manner.
            The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
   following gives examples.
15 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            One preferred form of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings in which:
            Figure 1 shows a representation of a typical system for resuscitating infants as is known
   in the art, with an infant (or neonate) receiving gases from a resuscitator that forms part of the
20 system, the gases passing from the resuscitator to the infant via a manifold section, the manifold
   section connected to the resuscitator via a conduit that allows the gases to pass from the
   resuscitator to the manifold section.
            Figure 2 shows a cut-away view of the manifold section of Figure 1 in more detail, the
   manifold section having a gases inlet which in use receives gases from the resuscitator, a gases
25 outlet which in use passes the gases to a infant via a connected mask section (not shown), a
   device inlet which allows the passage of items such as suction tubes from the exterior to the
   interior of the manifold, and a PEEP outlet with a cap.
            Figure 3 shows a view of the manifold section of Figures 1 and 2 with a CO 2 breath
   indicator that forms part of the present invention located in the device inlet, the breath indicator
30 being shown as hidden detail because it is inserted into the manifold.
            Figure 4 shows the breath indicator of figure 4 by itself.
            Figure 5 shows a view of the manifold and breath indicator as shown in figure 4 with
   flow lines showing gases flow when the PEEP outlet is unoccluded, gases flow then the PEEP
   outlet is occluded and the movement of exhaled gases from an infant.
35          Figure 6 shows a view of the breath indicator with apertures in the breath indicator to

                                                   - 12
   allow gases flow through the breath indicator when the PEEP outlet is unoccluded.
           Figures 7, 8 and 9 show alternative arrangements where the breath indicator may be
   attached to, or received by, a T-piece apparatus or a patient interface, such as a face mask, such
   an indicator may be that of figures 3-6 or 11-13.
 5         Figure 10 shows a further embodiment of a breath indicator received by and attached to
   a T-piece, such a breath indicator as shown by figures 11-13.
           Figures 11, 12 and 13 show in more detail the breath indicator attached to the T-piece of
   figure 10.
10 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
              Figure 1 shows a representation of a typical resuscitator system as is known in the art,
   with a neonatal infant I receiving gases from a resuscitator 2 that forms part of the system. The
   gases are passed on to the infant I via a manifold section 3 which is in use connected to a patient
   (such as an infant) interface or mask section 4. The manifold section and resuscitation system
15 may be used with a mask or an endotracheal (ET) tube. The embodiments described below will
   be described with respect to a mask attached to the manifold, but it should be appreciated the use
   of such a breath indicator may be used in conjunction with ET tubes or other patient interfaces,
   such as face masks, nasal masks, oronasal masks, various configurations of nasal prong(s), and
   their associated connections or components.
20            It should be appreciated reference to a patient interface may comprise any one or
   combination of the following types: a face mask, an oral mask, an oronasal mask, a nasal mask,
   one or a pair of nasal prongs, an endotracheal tube, a T-piece resuscitator apparatus, gas flow
   regulator or gas pressure regulator associated with any one or more of these, although this list
   should not be seen as limiting.
25            The use of a mask with the resuscitation system is not to be considered limiting; it is
   simply an example as described by the following. The manifold section 3 is connected to the
   resuscitator 2 via a conduit 5 that allows the gases to pass from the resuscitator 2 to the manifold
   section 3. In the embodiment shown, the resuscitator 2 is connected to a pressure regulator 6 via
   a gases supply conduit 7, the resuscitator 2 receiving gases from the pressure regulator 6 via the
30 supply conduit 7, the pressure regulator fluidly (or gaseously) connected to a remote gases supply
   via a wall socket or similar. The pressure regulator 6 provides gases to the resuscitator 6 at 50 psi
   or thereabouts. In alternative embodiments, the resuscitator could be a self-contained unit which
   draws in gases directly from atmosphere and passes these on to the infant I via the conduit 5.
   The gases or air supply are provided at a pressure above or at atmospheric pressure. The
35 delivered pressure is varied between Peak Inspiratory Pressure (PIP) and Peak End Expiratory

                                                    - 13
   Pressure (PEEP) by the occlusion of a PEEP outlet (described later). The PIP is adjusted at the
   resuscitator 2 to a desired level. The system shown above may also be used for respiration and
   assisted respiration (ventilation) of a neonate or infant.
   Breathing assistance apparatus
 5          Figures 2 and 3 and show a preferred form of the manifold 3 (and is further shown in
   figures 5, 10). The main body of the manifold section 3 is preferably substantially cylindrical in
   shape, with a plurality of inlet and outlet ports or port passages. The manifold section 3 is hollow
   and defines a gases space. The gases space forms gases connections between the inlet and outlet
   ports.
10          With reference to figure 2, the preferred form of manifold section 3 has a gases inlet 8
   which in use is connected to the conduit 5 so that gases from the resuscitator 2 pass along the
   conduit 5 and are provided to the hollow interior of the manifold section 3. In use, the gases
   pass from the inlet port 8, through the hollow interior of the manifold section 3 and then exit the
   manifold section 3 via the gases outlet 9. In the embodiment shown, the gases outlet 9 is
15 connected to a detachable mask section 4 or similar (shown in figures 1, 8, 9), the mask section 4
   in use fitting around the nose or the nose and mouth of the patient (e.g. infant) 1, so that gases
   exiting the manifold section 3 via the gases outlet 9 pass to the patient I via the mask section.
   An example of a suitable mask section is disclosed in USD574,487. All of the passages are
   defined by solid walls.
20          Also shown in Figure 2 (with similar configuration also shown in figure 10) is a pressure
   relief section or over pressure relief section that forms part of the manifold section 3. The
   preferred embodiment of pressure relief section comprises a PEEP outlet passage 10 (PEEP
   outlet 10) passing outwards from the main body of the manifold section 3, with an aperture that
   opens to atmosphere located at or towards the outer end of the PEEP outlet 10. A cap 20 is
25 positioned on the end of the passage 10 and may be used to adjust the valve mechanism. The
   cap 20 includes an aperture in it that allows gases to exit through the cap. The cap is moveable
   and can be moved to adjust the size of the aperture in order to control PEEP value.
            The cap 20 includes an aperture 21 within the cap. The aperture in the cap can be
   occluded and unoccluded to control PEEP. In use a substantial portion, if not all of the gases
30 from the inlet port 8, flow out of the second outlet passage 10 when the aperture is open and
   uncovered. Only a small or no portion of the inlet gases reaches the PEEP outlet if the aperture
   in the cap is uncovered. In use, the aperture in the cap can be covered and closed or occluded to
   force the gases flowing into the inlet port to flow out of the PEEP outlet 9 and to the patient
   (e.g. infant).
35          The aperture is can be opened and closed manually by a medical professional or user of

                                                    - 14
   the device using a finger or any other suitable body part or other suitable instrument. The
   delivered gases are varied between the PIP when the aperture 21 is occluded and the PEEP when
   the aperture 21 is unoccluded. The cap aperture 21 is opened and closed regularly to vary the PIP
   and PEEP at the normal rate of breathing to resuscitate a patient (e.g. infant). The opening and
 5 closing of the cap aperture provides gases to the patient (e.g. infant) in a cyclic manner. The
   opening and closing or occluding of the cap aperture allows a user (such as medical professional)
   to simulate breathing of the patient (e.g. infant) for resuscitation or assisted breathing purposes.
   The manual occlusion of the cap aperture also allows the user to control the amount and
   frequency of gases delivery to the patient.
10          In addition a valve mechanism (not shown) may be positioned in association with the
   passage 10 and the aperture. The valve mechanism is adapted to control the flow of gases
   passing from the interior of the manifold section 3 to atmosphere so that the pressure in the
   manifold will not rise above a certain preset level. If the pressure rises above such a level, the
   valve advantageously activates in such a manner that excess gases are vented from the manifold 3
15 and the pressure is limited.
            Several types of valves are suitable for use as part of the pressure relief section, for
   example umbrella valves, jet valves, and so on. The purpose of the pressure relief section is to
   allow excess gases to be vented in the event of potentially harmful pressure build-up within the
   interior of the manifold section 3. In a preferred form there is no valve present in the second
20 outlet passage 10. In an alternate form the valve mechanism may be adapted to maintain the
   PEEP level reasonably constant. The valve may be similar to that described in US 7,341,059.
            A device inlet 12 is also shown as part of the manifold section 3. In one embodiment,
   the device inlet is located directly opposite the PEEP outlet 9. The device inlet 12 is intended to
   allow items such as suction tubes or similar to be inserted into the interior of the manifold
25 section 3 during use, so that these items can then, if necessary, pass through the interior of the
   manifold section 3 to be inserted into the airways of the infant 1. The device inlet 12 can include
   a valve or similar which allows the passage of items from the exterior to the interior of the
   manifold section 3, but which seals to prevent the flow of gases from the interior to the exterior
   both during use when no items are inserted, and during the insertion of items. In one form the
30 device inlet 12 includes a duck billed valve 13.
            The duck billed valve 13 is normally sealed, but upon insertion of e.g. a catheter, the
   duck-billed valve 13 opens to allow the catheter end to be received and enter the interior of the
   manifold section 3. The bill of the duck billed valve 13 seals around the end of the inserted item
   (e.g. a catheter), thereby helping ensure that the manifold section 3 remains sealed against
35 inadvertent gases leaks. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the duck billed valve can be used to

                                                      - 15
   receive a breath indictor 14, 54.
   Breath indicator
            The preferred form of breathing assistance apparatus also has a separate breath indicator
   14, 54 which is a separate item to, and used in conjunction with, the manifold section 3. Such
 5 indictors 14, 54 are removable from the breathing assistance apparatus.
            In the general sense the breath indicator 14 comprises a body, having a sensing portion
   and an attachment portion. The sensing portion comprises a material or structures that switched
   between two visual indicator states.
            The first visual indicator state relates to inhalation and the second visual indicator state
10 relates to exhalation by the patient.
            The detecting material or structures are capable of changing between the visual indicator
   states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond to inhalation and exhalation changes of the
   infant to indicate inhalation and exhalation.
            The indicator body may have included other structure that reduced the indicator's
15 resistance to flow.
            The attachment end portion 16, 56 of the indicator may have included features or
   structures to allow the indicator to be held in the breathing assistance apparatus, in use. The
   attachment end portion 16, 56 may also have included structures to align the indicator's elongate
   body in the correct orientation and position within the breathing assistance apparatus, or patient
20 interface as necessary.
            The breath indicator 14 will now be described with particular reference to figures 3 to 6.
            As it is shown in Figure 3, the manifold section is oriented so that the gases outlet 9 is at
   the lowest point, and the device inlet 12 is at the top of the device, directly above the gases
   outlet. This orientation generally corresponds with how the device will be oriented in use, with
25 an infant I lying on their back facing upwards and the gases outlet 9 directly above their nose and
   mouth. The description below will assume this 'in-use' orientation for the purpose of describing
   the relationship of various features to one another. However, no other significance should be
   read into the use of terms such as, for example, 'above', 'below', 'top' and 'bottom' when used in
   this specification. These are merely intended to convey a relative relationship for a specific
30 orientation - such as that which is shown in Figure 4.
            In one embodiment, the elongate body of the breath indicator 14 generally has the form
   of an elongate cylinder. The elongate body has a sensing end 15 and an attachment end 16. One
   end of the elongate body is formed as or is connected to a sensing end 15 and the other end is
   formed as or is connected to an attachment end 16. The sensing end 15 will be described in
35 detail below.

                                                     - 16
            In various forms, the elongate body may be formed from a rigid plastic such as a
   polycarbonate.
            In use, and for example as shown in Figure 3, the sensing end 15 is inserted through the
   device inlet 12, with the duck billed valve 13 sealing around the elongate body of the breath
 5 indicator 14 to maintain gases pressure integrity within the manifold section 3. The same
   configuration would apply in relation to breath indicator 54 when being inserted through the
   device inlet 12 and duck billed valve 13.
            The indicator 14 may be about 30 mm to about 60 mm in length, or may be a length of
   about 50mm. The actual length will depend on the size of the breathing apparatus or patient
10 interface to which the indicator 14 (or 54) is to be attached.
            The indicator 14 may have an outer diameter of about 1 mm to about 5 mm, or may be
   about 3 mm. The actual diameter will depend on the size of the inlet of the breathing apparatus
   or patient interface through which the indicator 14 (or 54) is to be inserted.
            The elongate body of the indicator 14 (or 54) may be of a reasonably smooth surface
15 along its length. The small outer diameter relative of the elongate body to the size of the gases
   space means the breath indicator 14 (or 54) does not need to occupy much room in the gases
   space. The shape of the elongate body may also go some way toward not increasing the
   resistance to the flow of gases in the gases space. The smooth shape of the body may contribute
   to not increasing the resistance to flow of gases in the gases space.
20          It should be noted that sensing end and attachment end as referred to in this specification
   in relation to the indicator 14 are defined as the respective ends of the indicator's 14 elongate
   body. It should also be noted that sensing end and attachment end 16 also encompass a distance
   of about 1 mm to about 15 mm from either of the respective ends. The meaning adopted is
   dependent on context. In the general sense when sensing end or attachment end is used in the
25 specification, it is meant the ends of the elongate body or at least the general area of the elongate
   body around the ends, specifically in relation to the indicator 14.
   Sensing end
            In use, the sensing end 15 of the indicator 14 comprises a detecting material that changes
   between two visual indicator states.
30          The indicator 14, 54 provides for a visual indicator and the detecting material can change
   between two visual states. A visual indicator state is a physical visual state of the detecting
   material of the sensing end 15 or sensor 55 (not shown) for the indicator 14 or 54, respectively.
            A visual indicator state is noticeable or observable (i.e. optically detectable) to a human
   eye and the difference between two visual indicator states is also noticeable to the eye (or may be
35 other optically sensing equipment).

                                                     - 17
             The indicator 14, 54 is adapted to detect inhalation and exhalation of an infant and
   visually signal inhalation, exhalation and the change between the inhalation and exhalation states.
   The detecting material changes between a first state, relating to inhalation phase and a second
   state, related to an exhalation phase. The detecting material is adapted to change states at a rate to
 5 substantially match inhalation and exhalation. The detecting material is preferably colorimetric,
   meaning the detecting material changes colour as it changes between the two states of inhalation
   and exhalation. The preferred way of detecting inhalation and exhalation is to sense the amount
   of CO   2 present.
             In one embodiment form, the sensing end 15 of indicator 14, or sensor 55 of indicator
10 54, is formed and adapted so that it will rapidly change colour in the presence of CO 2
   concentrations above those normally found in atmospheric gases - i.e. it will change colour when
   it comes into contact with exhaled air from a person. The sensing end 15 of indicator 14, or
   sensor 55 of indicator 54, is also formed and adapted so that it will change colour rapidly, if not
   almost instantaneously. Once the CO 2 concentration reduces back to, or close to, that of
15 atmospheric air, the sensing end will return to its original colour from the detection colour. In
   this manner the sensing end 15 of indicator 14, or sensor 55 of indicator 54, is capable of
   changing from a resting or base colour when exposed to atmospheric air, to a second colour or
   detection colour when exposed to C0 2, and back again to the resting colour once the CO 2
   concentration diminishes, and it is most preferred that the colour change takes place rapidly
20 enough to roughly match the inhalation/exhalation cycle of the infant 1. That is, rapidly enough
   to detect end-tidal or breath-by-breath Carbon Dioxide (C0 2) in the breath of an infant. It is
   preferred that the colour change takes place when the indicator dye or indicator material is
   exposed to CO 2 concentrations of 5% or above by gases volume.
             There are several ways in which the sensing end 15 of indicator 14, or sensor 55 of
25 indicator 54, could be formed.
             In one form of indicator 14, the sensing end 15 is formed as a hollow section which holds
   an indicator dye. The wall or shell of the hollow section has pores to allow gases, and especially
   exhaled gases with a high concentration of CO 2 to come into contact with the indicator dye. In
   use, the indicator dye changes colour when the CO 2 concentration rises above that normally
30 found in atmospheric air, and a user can view this colour change through the wall of the
   manifold section 3 and the wall of the hollow section which holds the indicator dye.
             In an alternative embodiment, the sensing end 15 is formed by applying a layer of
   indicator dye, or a layer of material infused with an indicator dye, to the outside surface of at least
   the sensing end of the elongate cylindrical shaped body.
35           Alternatively the indicator dye or indicator material may be applied to the rod or elongate

                                                        - 18
   body of indicator 14 in any other suitable way that allows CO 2 from the infant's exhaled air to
   come into contact with the indicator.
            As outlined above, the indicator dye or indicator material changes colour when the CO 2
   concentration rises above that normally found in atmospheric air, and a user can view this colour
 5 change through the wall of the manifold section 3 and if the dye is held in a hollow section, the
   wall of the hollow section which holds the indicator dye.
            In a yet still further alternative, at least the lower end part of the elongate cylinder may
   itself be formed from a CO 2 detecting material, attached or connected in any suitable manner to
   the remainder of the breath indicator 14.
10          A further alternative form of the indicator 14 is shown in figure 6. As shown in figure 6,
   the apertures 30 are positioned or formed in the upper part of the indicator 14. The apertures 30
   are in the part of the indicator that is closest to the duck billed valve 13, meaning the aperture 30
   are closer to the attachment end than the sensing end. The apertures may be about 1 mm to
   about 10 mm away from the duck billed valve. Alternatively, the apertures may be closer to the
15 sensing end 15, for example may be about 1 to about 10 mm away from the end of the indicator
   14. As a further alternative, the apertures 30 may be positioned at any other positions along the
   indicator 14, this form not being shown in the figures.
            The apertures 30 of indicator 14 can be hexagonal in shape and arranged, for example, in
   a honeycomb shape. Alternatively, the apertures 30 may be any other suitable shape such as
20 diamond shaped, rectangular, oval, circular etc. Figure 6 shows the apertures 30 may be arranged
   in a honeycomb structure. The indicator 14 may be hollow with detector material inside the tube.
   Or, the detector material may be separately, or in addition, applied to the outside of the indicator
   14 body near the sensing end 15.
            When the cap aperture 21 is unoccluded the gases received in the inlet port 8 pass
25 through the apertures 30 and out of the cap aperture 21. This is shown by arrows A and B in
   figure 5. The gases from the gas supply (arrow A) are received by the inlet port 8 and pass
   through the apertures 30 and out through the cap (arrows B). When the cap aperture is occluded
   the gases received by the inlet port 8 (arrow A) pass out through the gases outlet 9 and to the
   infant (as shown by arrow C). The gases exhausted out of the PEEP outlet 10 and cap aperture
30 cause the gases exhaled by the infant to be drawn upward and into the indicator through the
   apertures 30 (shown by arrows D). The gases exhaled by the infant enter the manifold 3 through
   the gases outlet 9 (arrows D), since the infant exhales into the mask 4 or ET tube (not shown)
   and the gases outlet 9. The exhaled gases are drawn upward due to a combination of venturi and
   Bernoulli or simply venturi or simply Bernoulli Effect. These effects are caused by the
35 pressurised gases (therapy gases) flowing from the inlet port 8 to the secondary outlet port 10

                                                    - 19
   through the apertures 30. The pressurised gases flowing through the apertures causes a pressure
   drop across the holes and from one side of the indicator to the other. It is this pressure drop that
   causes exhaled gases from the infant to be drawn toward the CO 2 detecting material. The gases
   exhaled by the infant are continuously drawn or sucked into the indicator where they come into
 5 contact with the CO 2 detecting material and cause the CO 2 detecting material to change colour in
   the presence of CO 2 present in the exhaled gases of the infant. The suction created by the
   pressurised gases passing through the apertures 30 of indicator 14 may help to increase the
   sensitivity and response rate of the breath indicator 14. The system may be optimised based on
   the whole pattern design and by varying the size of the apertures. The apertures 30 can, as
10 mentioned earlier, be hexagonal and arranged in a honeycomb pattern. Alternatively, the
   apertures 30 maybe any other suitable shape like square, rectangular, oval or circular.
           The apertures 30 are advantageously positioned along the body of the indicator 14. At
   least some of the apertures are preferably positioned such that they are aligned with the flow of
   gases from the inlet. The apertures 30 may help reduce the resistance to flow of gases created by
15 the elongate indicator being in the gases space 3. The apertures 30 being aligned with the flow of
   gases reduces the resistance to flow the flow of gases due to the apertures 30 and further reduces
   the resistance to flow of gases due to the presence of the indicator 14.
   Detector material composition
           As outlined above, in one embodiment, the indicator 14, 54 comprises a CO 2 detector
20 material in the form of a coloured dye or coloured material that changes colour in the presence
   of CO 2 . The dye or material is capable of changing colour in the presence of CO 2 from the
   exhaled air of an infant or infant. The change in colour corresponds to a particular visual
   indicator state. Most preferably the dye changes colour when the infant's exhaled breath has at
   least 5% CO 2 by gases volume. The indicator dye does not change colour in concentrations less
25 than 0.5% CO 2 hence the dye does not change colour due to CO 2 in the atmosphere. The most
   preferred composition of dye is blue when it is not exposed to CO 2 or when the concentration of
   CO 2 is less than 0.5%. The dye changes from a blue to a yellow colour when it is exposed to
   CO 2 concentrations of 5% or above. Alternatively any other colour change is acceptable. A blue
   to yellow colour change is preferred since it is very visible to a medical professional that may be
30 monitoring the breathing of the infant. The blue to yellow colour change provides a visual
   indication to an observer of the infant's breathing. The dye preferably changes colour due to a
   chemical reaction between the dye and the CO 2. The reaction is reversible and the dye changes
   colour back to blue when the CO 2 concentration drops below 5%. The reversible reaction allows
   for a breath by breath indication, meaning each time the infant exhales the dye changes from blue
35 to yellow and the each time the infant ceases exhaling, and the indicator's sensing end 15 of

                                                     - 20
   indicator 14, or sensor 55 of indicator 54, is exposed to atmospheric gases, the dye changes from
   yellow to blue. Breath by breath indication is advantageous because it allows a medical
   professional to monitor the infants breathing and ensure the infant is breathing correctly. The
   blue colour of the detecting material represents the first visual indicator state. The blue colour
 5 (first visual indicator state) corresponds to the inhalation of an infant. The yellow colour of the
   detecting material represents to the second visual indicator state. The yellow colour (second
   visual indicator state) corresponds to exhalation from the infant.
            The detecting material may undergo intermediate visual indicator state changes. The
   intermediate states occur as the detecting material changes between the first and second visual
10 indicator state. Preferably there are two intermediate visual indicator states. Alternatively there
   may be any other number of intermediate visual indicator states. The detecting material
   preferably goes through a green phase and yellow green phase as it changes colour from blue to
   yellow. The green phase occurs when the CO 2 concentration is approximately between 1% and
   2%. A yellow green coloured state occurs when the concentration of CO 2 is between
15 approximately 2% and 5%. The detecting material (indicator) changes colour to a yellow colour
   when the concentration of CO 2 is above approximately 5%. The concentration of CO 2 in the
   room air is generally around 0.03%. The preferred detecting material remains permanently yellow
   coloured if it is damaged or malfunctioning. This allows a user or a medical professional or
   supervisor of therapy to see if the indicator is damaged or malfunctioning. The breath indicator
20 14, 54 can be changed. Preferably the optimal time of use of the indicator 14, 54 is up to 24
   hours, but this will depend on how much use the detecting material can take before it is
   exhausted. If the indicator is used for longer than 24 hours, the colour of the detecting material
   eventually fades to a yellow-light green colour - this may be useful as a further visual indicator to
   the user for indicating when the sensor or detecting material is nearing its end of life or
25 exhaustion point.
            The indicator dye can be formed from any suitable dye such as, for example, metacresol
   purple or bromothymol blue. Any other suitable dye may also be used as an alternative. The dye
   must be a colour that is easily visible to the human eye when activated. The number of visual
   indicator states that may occur are dependent on the type of dye or material used as the detecting
30 material. The invention visually represents inhalation and exhalation of an infant, with a clear
   visual state change between the inhalation phase and exhalation phase of the infant. The purpose
   of the indicator is to visually show or signal inhalation and exhalation of an infant being
   resuscitated or ventilated to allow a medical professional to determine if an infant is breathing
   correctly or if the infant has been resuscitated.
35          In alternative forms the indicator's sensor end 15 or sensor 55 may be formed from, or

                                                    -21
   may include, any other suitable substance to act as a CO 2 detector. In one form the sensing end
   15 or sensor 55 of the breath indicator 14 or 15 respectively, may be formed or comprise a
   powder or grains of pH sensitive material. In other forms, the sensing end 15 or sensor 55 of the
   indicator 14, 54 respectively, may be in the form of pH sensitive paper, such as litmus paper.
 5 Alternatively, the indicator's detecting material substance may be any other pH sensitive material
   that is known to persons skilled in the art, for example, phenol red, cresol blue, phenolphthalein,
   thymol blue, bromthymol blue and so on. In a further alternative form, the indicator's detecting
   material with sensing end 15 or sensor 55 for indicators 14 or 54 respectively, or may include
   substances that absorb and react with gaseous carbon dioxide to produce a colour change.
10 Examples of such materials include, but are not limited to, are barium oxide, lithium hydroxide,
   calcium oxide, sodium hydroxide and many others that are known in the art. These CO 2
   absorbing materials may be in any suitable form for example a lattice, powder, liquid or any other
   suitable form.
            In another alternative embodiment, the indicator 14 or 54 may comprise temperature
15 sensitive materials that change colour in response to a specified temperature change. The
   purpose of the indicator 14, 54 is to show breathing of an infant by indicating when an infant
   exhales. Exhaled air is generally at a higher temperature than ambient air. The temperature
   sensitive material changes colour when there is a predetermined temperature change, hence
   changing colour when an infant exhales. The temperature sensitive material may be arranged in
20 any suitable form for example a strip, a disc, a powder and so on.
            In a further alternative embodiment, the indicator 14 or 54 may comprise a humidity
   sensor. Medical gases or medical air and oxygen used to resuscitate an infant (or neonate) are
   generally dry. In most cases, the gases or air or oxygen is humidified to less than 10% moisture
   content. The exhaled breath from the infant is substantially higher in terms of relative humidity
25 and moisture content. The higher moisture or humidity of the exhaled air causes the indicator to
   change colour. The humidity sensor preferably only changes colour when there is a
   predetermined humidity change or when a predetermined level of humidity is reached. The
   humidity sensor is arranged in any suitable form for example a strip, a disc, a powder, as a rod
   and so on. The humidity sensor may also be a holographic sensor that may display a plurality of
30 images. One image may correspond to low humidity and hence correspond to the inspiration
   phase of the infant's breathing. The sensor image may change when there is predetermined
   change in humidity or when a predetermined level of humidity is reached, signifying exhalation
   or expiration phase of the infant.
            In another alternative form, at least part of the inner surfaces of the manifold may be
35 coated with a CO 2 indicating material. Preferably, the CO 2 detecting material may be applied or

                                                    - 22
   be present on the inner surfaces of the outlet 9. The CO 2 indicator may be present on all the
   inner surfaces of the gases outlet 9 or may only be present on parts of the inner surfaces of the
   gases outlet 9. Alternatively or in addition, the CO 2 material may be present on the inner surfaces
   of other parts of the manifold for example on the inner surface of the wall that defines the
 5 secondary outlet passage 10.
   Attachment end
            The attachment end 16 of indicator 14, or the attachment end 56 of indicator 54, at the
   top of the device is formed as a handle to allow a doctor or other medical professional to insert
   or remove the breath indicator 14, 54 from the manifold section 3. The most preferred form of
10 handle is formed so that a handle flange 17, 57 extends outwards perpendicularly from the top of
   the attachment end, the handle flange 17, 57 allowing a doctor or user to gain a grip on the
   attachment end 16, 56 to pull the breath indicator 14, 54 clear of the manifold section 3. If
   preferred, that part of the body directly below the handle flange 17, 57 can be formed as a
   knurled or ridged grip for the same reason - to allow a person to grip the handle section more
15 easily.
            In the most preferred form, a stopping flange 18, 58 can be located at a mid-point of the
   elongate body of the breath indicator 14, 54 just below the knurled portion of the attachment
   end 16, 56. The stopping flange 18, 58 may extend outwards perpendicularly from the body. In
   use, the sensing end 15 or sampling end 51 is inserted into the device inlet 12 and the elongate
20 body of the breath indicator 14, 54 is pushed through the device inlet 12 until the stopping flange
   18, 58 contacts the top surface of the manifold section 3 and is prevented from travelling any
   further relative to the manifold section 3. The stopping flange is a preferred, but not essential,
   feature. Mid-point in this context is not intended to a halfway point, merely a point at some
   location between the two ends.
25 Locking feature
            In one form, the breath indicator 14, 54 fits into the device inlet 12 by means of a friction
   fit with the sides of the device inlet 12.
            In alternative forms, either the breath indicator 14, 54 or the manifold section 3, or both,
   can include an optional locking feature that locks the indicator in place when the indicator is
30 inserted into the manifold section 3. The indicator may be attached in place by any suitable
   connection. For example, a threaded connection, interference click-fit connection, or any other
   suitable locking mechanism. The locking feature may be a protrusion or a series of protrusions
   (not illustrated) extending from the elongate body just below the stopping flange 18, 58. The
   manifold section 3 itself may include at least one corresponding fastening feature to correspond
35 with the locking feature on the breath indicator 14, 54. Such a fastening feature can be

                                                     - 23
   positioned on, along, within or around the inlet 12. The mutually adapted fastening features
   could be, for example, at least one or a plurality of vertically aligned slots (not illustrated)
   positioned around the device inlet 12, which correspond with at least one or a plurality of ridges
   on the body of the breath indicator 14, 54.
 5         In another form, the breath indicator 14 can comprise an alignment feature or features
   (not shown). It should be noted that there may be one or multiple alignment features provided
   with the breath indicator 14. The alignment feature may form part of the locking
   feature/features. Alternatively, the alignment feature may be separate to the locking features. The
   alignment feature acts to provide correct positioning of the breath indicator l4within the
10 manifold such that at least some of the apertures 30 of indicator 14 are substantially aligned with
   the gases flow into the manifold 3. The apertures 30 being aligned with the gases flow are
   advantageous because there is no increased resistance to the flow of gases. The apertures being
   aligned with the flow may reduce the resistance to flow of gases from the inlet. The apertures 30
   allow gases to flow through and hence reduce the resistance to flow due to the indicator being
15 inserted into the gases flow. At least part of the gases flow through the apertures 30 rather than
   just around the indicator hence reducing the resistance to flow due to the indicator being inserted
   in a gases flow. The apertures being aligned with the flow of gases further goes in some way to
   reducing the resistance to flow due to the apertures 20. The apertures 30 being aligned with the
   flow allow the gases to flow more easily through the apertures and encounter less resistance to
20 flow and fewer obstacles and can adopt a less tortuous path to flow around and/or through the
   indicator. The apertures 30 being aligned with the flow of gases reduce the resistance to flow of
   gases from the inlet.
            The alignment feature may be any suitable feature. Some examples of an alignment
   feature are a baffle, a flange, a pin, a screw or any other suitable feature. The alignment feature
25 can be positioned at or near the attachment end 16 of indicator 14. The alignment feature is
   advantageous because it allows the indicator to be inserted and retained in the correct operational
   position. The alignment feature also makes using the breath indicator 14 easy for a user, because
   the alignment feature acts a guide for the correct position of the indicator 14. The breath
   indicator 14 may also comprise a receiving feature (not shown). The receiving feature may receive
30 the alignment feature to correctly position the indicator, particularly the apertures 30 such that
   the apertures are substantially aligned with the gases flow into and through the manifold 3.
           In use
           As outlined above, the breath indicator 14, 54 is, in-use, inserted through the duck billed
   valve and the sensing end 15 of indicator 14, and sampling end 51 of indicator 54, extends into
35 the gases space defined by the manifold section 3. In use, the breath indicator 14 and particularly

                                                      - 24
   its sensing end 15, or sampling end 51 of indicator 54, is provided at least proximate to (i.e. close,
   near or substantially adjacent to the region of) the mouth and nose of the infant 1, or region
   where gas is exhaled by the patient.
            The sensing end 15 of indicator 14 can be about 1 mm to about 15 mm away from the
 5 nose and mouth of the patient. It should be understood proximate is about 1 mm to about 20
   mm, but may be about 1 mm to about 10 mm away.
            The sensing end 15 of the indicator 14 is preferably located proximate to at least the
   outlet 9. It is most preferred that the indicator 14 extends into the manifold section 3 until the
   sensing end 15 is between 2mm and 8 mm away from the gases outlet 9. That is, between 2mm
10 and 8mm from extending out beyond the gases outlet 9. Most preferably the sensing end 15 is
   approximately 3mm away from the gases outlet 9.
            In use, the patient (e.g. infant) inhales gases passing out of the gases outlet 9 in a constant
   stream. The infant I will exhale against this constant stream. Most of the exhaled air will be
   forced around the edges of the mask section 4 to atmosphere. However, a portion will return
15 into the manifold section 3 against the constant flow of gases. As the sensing end 15 of the
   indicator 14, or sampling end 51 of indicator 54, is positioned as close as possible to the gases
   outlet 9, there will be a greater concentration of gases at this point than there would be if the
   sensing end portion 15 or sampling end 51 were located at a point further away from the user's
   mouth or airways. The sensing end 15 or sampling end 51 is located as close as possible to the
20 user's mouth and nose as possible without actively interfering with therapy.
            It can therefore be seen that the sensing end 15, or sampling end 51, being extended into
   the manifold is advantageous because it allows the sensing end 15 or sampling end 51 to be at the
   point of most sensitivity and therefore provide an optimised measurement because it is as close
   as practicable to the patient. The location, or locating, of the sensing end 15 or sampling end 51,
25 as described above, is also advantageous because there is preferentially no increase in dead space
   within the manifold 3 involved in making the measurement.
            If the breath indicator 14, 54 and more specifically the sensing end 15 or sampling end 51
   is located in its own sub-passage or recess, this can form a deadspace where CO 2 concentration
   may not be an accurate reflection of that exhaled (or inhaled) by the infant 1.
30          The elongate breath indicator 14, 54 is also advantageous because it can be inserted
   through the duckbilled valve, firstly allowing the therapy to continue as the indicator is inserted
   in or removed from the manifold, and secondly because the indicator sensing end 15 or sampling
   end 51 can be pushed to a point where it is closest to the exhaled gases from the infant 1,
   therefore providing or sampling gas exhaled by the patient for providing an as accurate a reading
35 as possible.

                                                      - 25
           The volume of air exhaled by an infant (tidal volume) is generally very small generally in
   the range of I to 40 millilitres (larger for adults). Accordingly, it is preferred that the indicator is
   capable of measuring and detecting CO 2 in such small tidal volumes. The sensing end 15 or
   sensor 55 of indicators 14, 54 is advantageous because it can measure small tidal volumes.
 5 Further, providing the indicator 14, 54 with sensing end 15 or sampling end 51 to extend close to
   the infant allows the indicator to measure or sense from sampled gases small tidal volumes from
   the patient.
           As part of an exhalation of gases from a patient, the exhaled gas stream may travel back
   into the manifold 3. The exhaled gases become diluted as they travel through the manifold 3. The
10 exhaled gases are diluted by the therapy gases received by the manifold through the inlet port 8.
   The sensing end 15 or sampling end 51 may be about 2mm to about 8 mm away from the gases
   outlet allows the sensing end 15 to be exposed to the highest concentration of exhaled gases, or
   in the case of sampling end 51 directing the gas to sensor 55 of indicator 54, that is before the
   exhaled gases become too diluted by the therapy gases. This is advantageous because it allows for
15 an accurate representation of a patient's (e.g. infant's) breathing. The CO 2 detecting material is
   adapted to detect very low tidal volumes of CO 2. This makes the indicator 14, 54 advantageous
   since the indicator can detect very low tidal volumes.
           The indicator embodiment shown in figure 5 and 6 is advantageous because the exhaled
   gases are sucked into the indicator tube body due to either the venturi effect or Bernoulli Effect.
20 This is advantageous because the suction allows a substantial part of the exhaled gases to be
   passed over the CO 2 detecting material. This suction of exhaled gases allows the indicator to be
   more accurate since a substantial part of the exhaled gases passes over the CO 2 detecting material
   without getting diluted by the incoming therapy gases.
           The indicator 14 being an elongate shape is advantageous because it does not increase the
25 resistance to the flow of gases in the manifold. The elongate shaped indicator 14 also reduces the
   resistance to the flow of gases from the inlet port 8 to the gases outlet 9. Preferably the outer
   surfaces which are exposed to gases flow are smooth to not increase the resistance to gases flow.
   The apertures 30 in the indicator 14 as shown in figure 6 also contribute to reducing the
   resistance to flow. The apertures 30 allow gases to flow through the indicator as gases flow from
30 the inlet port 8 to the PEEP outlet 10. In addition to this the indicator 14 being an elongate
   shape as shown in figure 3 reduces the dead space of the gas manifold increasing the sensitivity
   of CO 2 measurement detection.
            In a further form the breath indicator 14, 54 and breathing apparatus 3 may be sold or
   packaged or be in the arrangement of a kit of parts. The breath indicator 14, 54 and breathing
35 apparatus 3 have been described above in detail. The kit may be in any suitable form. Preferably

                                                       - 26
   instructions of assembling, using and maintaining the breath indicator 14, 54 and breathing
   apparatus 3 will be supplied with the kit. In use the breath indicator 14, 54 is inserted into the
   breathing assistance apparatus 3 through a device inlet 12, the device inlet 12 including a duck
   billed valve. The breath indicator 14, 54 can be locked in place by an optional locking feature, but
 5 preferably, the indicator 14, 54 is held in place by friction forces with a duck billed valve, or other
   port of a patient interface (such as a mask) or T-piece.
            Further embodiment
            As discussed above, features of use, detector material or sensor may be applicable to the
   embodiment described in more detail below.
10          In a further embodiment, there is provided a breath indicator 54 that is receivable by a
   part of a breathing assistance apparatus (or patient interface), such a breathing apparatus capable
   of supplying gas to a patient. It will be appreciated a breathing apparatus may include a ventilator
   system or resuscitator system, or parts of these, such as T-piece 3.
            Such a breath indicator 54 comprises an elongate body 50 having a gas sampling end 51,
15 and an attachment end 56. The attachment end 56 adapted to attach to a part of a breathing
   assistance apparatus (e.g. via a duck-billed valve of a T-piece) and for locating the gas sampling
   end 51. The gas sampling end 51 to be located, or for location, at or in, a region where gas from
   the patient is to be exhaled. Such a gas sampling end 51 being in communication with a sensor
   (not shown, but to be located at 55) comprising a detector material. The detector material is
20 changeable between a first visual indicator state (relating to an inhalation phase of the patient),
   and a second visual indicator state (relating to an exhalation phase of the patient). The detector
   material also being is capable of changing between the visual indicator states at a sufficient rate to
   substantially correspond with the inhalation and exhalation phases of the patient connected to
   the breathing assistance apparatus.
25          As discussed generally in relation to the previous embodiments, the sensor comprises
   CO 2 detecting material. The detecting material used is that which is capable of changing from a
   first visual indicator state (e.g. first or base colour) to a second indicator state (e.g. second or
   indicator colour) when exposed to gas having CO 2 concentration greater than that normally
   found in atmospheric air. Similarly, the detecting material is capable of changing from the second
30 visual indicator state to the first indicator state when exposed to gas having CO 2 concentration
   the same or substantially similar to those normally found in atmospheric air. The material chosen
   is advantageously that which changes from the first visual indicator state to the second visual
   indicator state when exposed to gas having a concentration by volume of at least about 5% or
   more CO 2 .
35          Advantageously, in this embodiment of the breath indicator 54, the visual indicator state

                                                     - 27
   of the detecting material can be optically or visually observed by a user of a breathing assistance
   apparatus (e.g. ventilator or resuscitator system) for a patient. One other particular use of such a
   breath indicator is the ability for a user to detect the end-tidal or breath-by-breath CO 2 present
   within gas being exhaled by the patient. Such detection is enabled by the user optically or visually
 5 observing the change in visual indictor state of the detecting material.
           In various but preferred forms, at least a part of the attachment end 56 of the breath
   indicator remains external of a part of a breathing assistance apparatus (e.g. patient interface such
   as a T-piece or mask) to which the breath indicator 54 is attached.
           The attachment end 56 can be provided in a substantially perpendicular orientation to the
10 elongate body, and may for example be disk-shaped, such as that shown in figures 10-13.
           It should be further appreciated that the attachment end 56 can be formed to be, or so
   used as, a handle portion including a handle flange extending outwards perpendicularly from the
   end of the attachment end 56. This may enable a user to better grip or hold the breath indicator
   54 when removing the indicator 54 from a patient interface or when inserting the indicator 54
15 into an interface (or part of a breathing assistance apparatus).
           Further, the breath indicator 54 may further comprise of a stopping flange (not shown,
   but could be similar to that of figures 3-6) that is located at least partway along the elongate body
   50 and which extends substantially or generally perpendicularly from the body 50. Such a flange
   57 can be located between the attachment end 56 and the sampling end 51.
20         In a similar manner to the embodiments previously discussed, the exterior surface of the
   elongate body 50 may be substantially smooth, or otherwise shaped, such that, in-use the
   elongate body 50 does not increase the resistance to flow of gas through the breathing assistance
   apparatus to which the indicator 54 is attached.
           The elongate body 50 is provided such that it has a length sufficient to allow the gas
25 sampling end 51 to be located in a region where gas from the patient is to be exhaled, and where
   the attachment end 56 is located in a position attached to a part of a breathing assistance
   apparatus.
            In one example, the elongate body 50 may have an outer diameter of about 1 mm to
   about 5 mm, and a length of about 30 mm to about 60 mm. It will be appreciated different
30 lengths or elongate body diameter may be used depending on the application and size of
   breathing apparatus or interface (or patient).
           The gas sampling end 51 of the elongate body comprises a gas inlet 52, the inlet 52 being
   provided for fluid communication with the sensor via a passageway 53. The sensor comprising
   the detecting material is advantageously provided in-line with the passageway 53, such that the
35 gas flowing through the passageway 53 contacts the sensor (with detecting material) for providing

                                                      - 28
   the visual indication of change in gas components (e.g. with respect to C0 2). Accordingly, the
   passageway 53 is provided for extending from the gas sampling end 51 of the elongate body 50
   to the sensor.
            In more detail, the passageway 53 provides for a gas flow path D extending from the gas
 5 inlet 52 to one or more gas outlets 59. Such outlets 59 are provided to be in fluid
   communication with the surrounding atmosphere external of the resuscitation system. That is,
   the outlets 59 are provided for allowing the expelling of gas flowing through the passageway 53
   to the surrounding environment outside of the breathing apparatus, such as flow path E.
            Therefore, the sensor is positionable for contact with the gas flow path D through the
10 passageway 53 is in contact with gases exhaled by a patient when, in a first mode of use such
   gases flow in through the gas inlet 52 of the sampling end 51, through the passageway 53 and
   make contact with the sensor. In this mode, a change in the sensor's detector material from the
   first visual indicator state to the second indicator state (if the CO 2 concentration is sufficient)
   may be enabled. And, in a second mode of use, such as when a patient is in an inhalation phase,
15 gas flow passing through the patient interface enters the gas inlet 52 at the sampling end 51,
   flows through the passageway 53, and makes contact with the sensor. In such a second mode,
   the flow of gases being detected by the detecting material allows the change from the second
   visual indicator state to the first visual indicator state. Such a second mode flushes gases
   provided to the patient interface or breathing assistance apparatus through the breath indicator
20 54.
            In one configuration, the sensor with detecting material is located in a region adjacent the
   attachment end 56. In this setup, the attachment end 56, or at least a part of the attachment end
   56, is formed of a visually transparent material allowing a user to visually detect changes between
   the first and second visual indicator states of the detector material (i.e. between the two modes of
25 use and for monitoring the inhalation and exhalation phases of a patient). For example, the top
   surface 61 of the attachment end 56 may be suitable optical transparency.
            Accordingly, the attachment end 56 is enabled with a housing or hollow section 60 for
   holding or retaining the sensor in position, such that the sensor is in contact with the gas flow
   path of gas flowing through the passageway 53 prior to being expelled to the external
30 environment out of the gas outlets 59. The housing 60 or attachment end 56 (or parts of each)
   may be of visually transparent materials enabling a user to observe the changes between the
   visual indicator states of the detecting material.
            As discussed previously, the breath indicator 54 as described above may be utilised
   together with a T-piece, or patient interface. In such an arrangement, the manifold of the T
35 piece, when in function, has higher pressure than the atmosphere, hence a pressure difference is

                                                    - 29
   created between the sampling end 51 and gas outlets 59. The pressure difference helps to direct
   the exhaled gases towards the detecting material at the attachment end 56.
            It should also be appreciated that the breath indicator 14 or 54, may be utilised directly
   with a face mask or other such patient interface, or may be positioned for receipt by a
 5 component of a breathing assistance apparatus, such as a T-piece, as shown by figures 7, 8, 9.
   The breath indicators 14, 54 of this invention provide for a removable indicator that may be
   received or attached to a part of a breathing assistance apparatus, with a system for placing the
   sensor close to the region of patient where gases are being exhaled, or alternatively where a
   sampling end or collector is provided for directing exhaled gas from a patient to a sensor for
10 providing an indication of exhaled gas components (e.g. C0 2).
            The present invention may have particular application to an infant or neonate due to the
   ability to locate a sensor or sampling end for sampling of gases close to the point or region of
   exhalation by an infant or neonate. Infants and neonates have a particular problem in that their
   volume of exhaled breath is comparatively small compared to an adult, accordingly, if an
15 indication of exhalation of a patient is to be made for an infant or neonate, it is useful that what
   breath is exhaled is sensed by a breath indicator.
20

                                                 - 30
      CLAIMS
   1. A breath indicator receivable by a part of a breathing assistance apparatus that supplies
      gas to a patient, the indicator comprising:
               an elongate body having a gas sampling end and an attachment end,
 5             the attachment end adapted to attach to a part of a breathing assistance apparatus
      and for locating the gas sampling end, and the gas sampling end to be located in a region
      where gas from the patient is to be exhaled,
               the gas sampling end being in communication with a sensor comprising a detector
      material changeable between a first visual indicator state relating to an inhalation phase of
10    the patient, and a second visual indicator state relating to an exhalation phase of the
      patient, and
               wherein the detector material is capable of changing between the visual indicator
      states at a sufficient rate to substantially correspond with the inhalation and exhalation
      phases of the patient.
15 2. The breath indicator as claimed in claim 1, wherein the detecting material is CO 2
      detecting material.
   3. The breath indicator as claimed in claim I or claim 2, wherein the detecting material
      changes from a first visual indicator state to a second indicator state when exposed to gas
      having CO 2 concentration greater than that normally found in atmospheric air.
20 4. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 3, wherein the detecting
      material changes from a second visual indicator state to a first indicator state when
      exposed to gas having CO 2 concentration the same or substantially similar to those
      normally found in atmospheric air.
   5. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 4, wherein the detecting
25    material changes from the first visual indicator state (a first colour) to a second visual
      indicator state (a second colour) when exposed to gas having a concentration by volume
      of at least about 5% or more CO 2 .
   6. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 5, wherein the visual indicator
      state of the detecting material can be optically or visually observed by a user of a
30    breathing assistance apparatus for a patient.
   7. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 6, wherein in-use, end-tidal or
      breath-by-breath CO     2 present within gas exhaled by a patient is optically or visually
      observable by a user by change in visual indictor state of the detecting material.

                                               -31
    8. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 7, wherein at least a part of the
       attachment end remains external of a part of a breathing assistance apparatus to which
       the breath indicator is attached.
    9. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 8, wherein the attachment end
 5     is provided substantially perpendicular to the elongate body.
   10. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 9, wherein the attachment end
       is disk-shaped.
   11. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 10, wherein the attachment end
       is formed as a handle portion including a handle flange extending outwards
10     perpendicularly from the end of the attachment end.
   12. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 11, wherein said breath
       indicator further comprises a stopping flange located partway along said elongate body
       and extending substantially perpendicularly from said body, said flange located between
       said attachment end and said sampling end.
15 13. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 12, wherein the breath indicator
       is receivable by a patient interface.
   14. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 13, wherein the patient interface
       comprises any one or combination of the following: a face mask, an oral mask, an
       oronasal mask, a nasal mask, one or a pair of nasal prongs, an endotracheal tube, a T
20     piece resuscitator apparatus, gas flow regulator or gas pressure regulator associated with
       any one or more of these.
   15. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 14, wherein the breath indicator
       is receivable by a face mask.
   16. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 14, wherein the breath indicator
25     is receivable by a T-piece breathing assistance apparatus.
   17. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the exterior surface
       of the elongate body is substantially smooth, or otherwise shaped, such that, in-use the
       elongate body does not increase the resistance to flow of gas through a part of a
       breathing assistance apparatus to which the indicator is attached.
30 18. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 17, wherein the elongate body
       has an outer diameter of about 1 mm to about 5 mm, and a length of about 30 mm to
       about 60 mm.

                                                 - 32
   19. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 18, wherein the gas sampling
       end of the elongate body comprises a gas inlet, the inlet being in fluid communication
       with the sensor via a passageway.
   20. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims I to 19, wherein a pressure
 5     difference exists between the gas sampling end and the attachment end, when in use.
   21. The breath indicator as claimed in claim 19 or claim 20, wherein the sensor comprising
       the detecting material is provided in-line with the passageway.
   22. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein the passageway
       extends from the gas sampling end of the elongate body to the sensor.
10 23. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22, wherein the passageway
       provides for a gas flow path extending from the breath indicator gas inlet to one or more
       breath indicator gas outlets, the outlets in fluid communication with the surrounding
       atmosphere external of the resuscitation system, the sensor positionable for contact with
       the gas flow path through the passageway.
15 24. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 23, wherein the sensor with
       detecting material is located in a region adjacent the attachment end, and wherein the
       attachment end, or at least a part of the attachment end, is formed of a visually
       transparent material allowing a user to visually detect changes between the first and
       second visual indicator states of the detector material.
20 25. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 24, wherein the attachment
       end houses the sensor.
   26. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 25, wherein the attachment
       end comprises a housing locating the sensor.
   27. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 26, wherein at least a part of
25     the attachment end (or housing) is formed of a visually transparent material, such that in
       use, a user is able to visually detect changes between the first and second visual indicator
       states of the detector material.
   28. The breath indicator as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 27, wherein the elongate body
       has a length sufficient to allow the gas sampling end to be located in a region where gas
30     from the patient is to be exhaled, and where the attachment end is located in a position
       attached to a part of a breathing assistance apparatus.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
