                                         ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions for modifying glycans (e.g., glycans expressed on the
surface of live cells or cell particles) are provided herein.

                 Compositions and Methods for Modifying Cell Surface Glycans
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001]        This is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
   <removed-apn> the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10 [0002]        This invention relates to compositions and methods for modifying cell
   surface glycans on live cells using exogenous glycosyltransferases. Particularly, the
   composition of methods of the invention preserves the viability and one or more native
   phenotypic characteristics of the treated cell.
15                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0003]        The capacity to direct migration of blood-bome cells to a predetermined
   location ("homing") has profound implications for a variety of physiologic and
   pathologic processes. Recruitment of circulating cells to a specific anatomic site is
20 initiated by discrete adhesive interactions between cells in flow and vascular
   endothelium at the target tissue(s). The molecules that mediate these contacts are
   called "homing receptors", and, as defined historically, these structures pilot tropism of
   cells in blood to the respective target tissue. At present, only three tissue- specific
   homing receptors are recognized: L-selectin for peripheral lymph nodes, 437 (LPAM
25 1) for intestines and gut-associated lymphoid tissue, and Cutaneous Lymphocyte
   Antigen (CLA) for skin (1). Apart from these tissues, it has also been recognized for
   several decades that circulating cells, especially hematopoietic stem cells, navigate
   effectively to bone marrow (2). However, extensive investigations on this process over
   several decades have yielded complex and sometimes conflicting results, providing no
30 direct evidence of a homing receptor uniquely promoting marrow tropism.
   [0004]        From a biophysical perspective, a homing receptor functions as a molecular
   brake, effecting initial tethering then sustained rolling contacts of cells in blood flow
   onto the
                                                  1

  vascular endothelium at velocities below that of the prevailing bloodstream (Step 1) (1).
  Thereafter, a cascade of events ensue, typically potentiated by chemokines. resulting in
  activation of.integrin adhesiveness (Step 2), firm adherence (Step 3) and endothelial
  transmigration (Step 4)(3). This "multi-step paradigm" holds that tissue-specific migration is
  regulated by a discrete combination of homing receptor and chenokine receptor expression
  on a given circulating cell, allowing for recognition of a pertinent "traffic signal" displayed
  by the relevant vascular adhesive ligands and chemokines expressed within target
  endothelium in an organ-specific manner. Following engagement of homing receptor(s)
  directing trafficking of cells to bone marrow, several lines of evidence indicate that one
  chemokine in particular, SDF-I, plays an essential role in Step 2-mediated recruitment of
  cells to this site (2, 4, 5).
  [OOOS            The most efficient effectors of Step I rolling interactions are the selecting (E-,
  P- and L-selectin) and their ligands (1). As the name implies, selectins are lectins that bind to
  specialized carbohydrate determinants, consisting of sialofucosylations containing an oa(2,3)
  linked sialic acid substitution(s) and an a(1,3)-linked fucose modification(s) prototypically
  displayed as the tetrasaccharide sialyl Lewis X (sL~e; Neu5Aca2-3GaIBl-4[Fucal
  3]GIcNAcB1-)) (1, 6). E- and P-selectin are expressed on vascular endothelium (P-selectin
  also on platelets), and L-selectin is expressed on circulating leukocytes (1). E- and P-selectin
  are typically inducible endothelial membrane molecules that are prominently expressed only
  at sites of tissue injury and inflammation. However, the microvasculature of bone marrow
   constitutively expresses these selectins (5, 7), and in vivo studies have indicated a role for E
   selectin in recruitment of circulating cells to marrow (5, 8). Importantly, SDF- Iis
   constitutively expressed in high concentration within the marrow and is co-localized uniquely
   with E-selectin on the specialized sinusoidal endothelial beds that recruit blood-borne cells to
s  the bone marrow (5).
   [0006]           Two principal ligands for E-selectin have been identified on human
   hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPC), PSGL-l (9) and a specialized sialofucosylated.
   CD44 glycoform known as Hematopoietic Cell E-/L-selectin Ligand (HCELL) (10, 11).
   CD44 is a rather ubiquitous cell membrane protein, but the HCELL phenotype is found
0  exclusively on human HSPCs. In contrast to HCELL's restricted distribution, PSGL-1 is
   widely expressed among hematopoietic progenitors and more mature myeloid and lymphoid
   cells within the marrow (9). HCELL is operationally defined as CD44 that binds to E
   selectin and L-selectin under shear conditions, and is identified by Western blot analysis of
                                                     2

  cell lysates as a CD44 glycoform reactive with E-selectin-Ig chimera (E-Ig) and with mAb
  HECA452, which recognizes a sialyl Lewis X-like epitope. Like all glycoprotein selectin
  ligands, HCELL binding to E- and L-selectin is critically dependent on a(2,3)-sialic acid and
  a(1,3)-fucose modifications(1O-13). On human HSPCs, HCELL displays the pertinent
  sialofucosylated selectin binding determinants on N-glycans (10, 12). In vitro assays of E
  and L-selectin binding under hemodynamic shear stress indicate that HCELL is the most
  potent ligand for these molecules expressed on any human cell (10, 13). Importantly, though
  E-selectin is constitutively expressed on microvascular endothelium of the marrow, this
  molecule is prominently expressed on endothelial beds at all sites of tissue injury (e.g., sites
  of ischenia-reperfusion injury or trauma) or inflammation.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0007]           The invention features compositions and methods for modifying glycans
  expressed on the surface of living, e.g. viable cells. The composition and methods allow
  modification of cell-surface glycans while preserving cell viability and one or more
  phenotypic characteristics of the cell. For example, the methods and compositions can be
  employed to modify particular phenotypic characteristics of the cell (such as glycosylation)
  while preserving one or more other phenotypic characteristics (e.g., mutipotency) of the cell.
  [0008]           In one aspect, the invention features a composition for modifying (ex vivo or
  in vitro) a glycan, e.g., a glycan expressed on the surface of a cell or a particle or cell
  fragment (e.g., a mammalian cell or a platelet or a cell membrane-derived substance/fragment
  such as a liposome. The composition includes a purified glycosyltransferase (e.g., a
  recombinant glycosyltransferase) and a physiologically acceptable solution, wherein the
  physiologically acceptable solution is free of one or more divalent metal co-factors (e.g., the
5 solution is free of manganese, magnesium, calcium, zinc, cobalt or nickel). In various
  embodiments, the glycosyltransferase is a fucosyltransferase (e.g., an alpha 1.3
  fucosyltransferase, e.g., an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase 1II, alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase IV,
  an alpha 1.3 fucosyltransferase VI, an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase VII or an alpha 1,3
  fucosyltransferase IX), a galactosyltransferase, or a sialyltransferase.
D [0009]           The composition can include more than one glycosyltransferase and/or may
  include one or moe additional agents, such as a donor substrate (e.g., a sugar). Donor
  substrates include fucose, galactose, sialic acid, or N-acetyl glucosamine.
                                                    3

  [000101          The glycosyltransferase has enzymatic activity. Optimally, the
  glycosyltransferase is capable of transferring 1.0 pmole of sugar per minute at pH 6.5 at 37
  "C. The composition does not affect integrin adhesion of the cell or cell particle.
  [00011]          The composition can include any physiologically acceptable solution that
  lacks divalent metal co-factors. In various embodiments, the physiologically acceptable
  solution is buffered. The physiologically acceptable solution is, e.g, Hank's Balanced Salt
  Solution, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium, a Good's buffer (see N.E.Good, G.D.Winget,
  W.Winter, TN.Conolly, S.lzawa and R.M.M.Singh, Biochemistry 5,467 (1966); N.E. Good,
  S.izawa, Methods Enzymol. 24,62 (1972) such as a HEPES buffer, a 2
  Morpholinoethanesulfonic acid (MES) buffer, phosphate buffered saline (PBS).
  [00012]          In various embodiments, the physiologically acceptable solution is free of
  jlycerol.
  [00013]          The compositions can be used for modifying a glycan on the surface of a cell
  such as a stem cell (e.g., a mesenchymal stem cell, a hematopoietic stem cell), a progenitor
  cell (e.g., a neural stem/progenitor cell or pulmonary stein/progenitor cell) or a cell of
  hematopoietic lineage (e.g., a leukocyte, a lymphocyte), or a cell particle (e.g., a platelet) or a
  liposome
  100014]          In another aspect, the invention features a kit for modifying a glycan on the
  surface of a cell or particle. The kit includes a purified glycosyltransferase, and instructions
  for contacting a cell with the glycosyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution
  which is free of one or more divalent metal co-factors.
  [00015]          In another aspect, the invention features a method for modifying a glycan on
  the surface of a cell or particle. The method includes contacting a cell or cell particle with a
  glycosyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution free of divalent metal co-factors
  under conditions in which the glycosyltransferase has enzymatic activity and the viability of
  the cell or cell particle population is at least 70%, 80%, 90%. 95%, 97%. 98%, 99% or more.
  Viability is measures a 2,4, 6, 8, 12,24 hours after contact with the glycosyltransferase.
  [00016]          In various embodiments, the cell or particle is contacted with more than one
  glycosyltransferase and its appropriate donor substrate (e.g. sugar). For example, the cell is
0 contacted with two glycosyltransferases simultaneously, or sequentially, each adding a
  distinct monosaccharide in appropriate linkage to the (extending) core glycan structure). The
  method is useful, e.g., for modifying glycans on the surface of cells, e.g. stem cells or
  differentiated cells or cell particles such as platelets. Cells include for example a
                                                     4

  mesenchymal cell, hematopoictic stem cells, tissue stem/progenitor cells such as a neural
  stem cell, a myocyte stem cell, or a pulmonary stem cell. an umbilical cord stem cell, an
  embryonic stem cell or a leukocyte. The cell or cell particle expresses CD44, e.g., a (2, 3)
  sialyated CD44. The cell or cell particle does not express CD34 or PSGL-1. After
  modification the cell or cell particle binds E-selectin and or L-selectin. The modified cell or
  cell particles do not bind P-selectin.
  [00017]          In various aspects the methods are useful to increase the affinity of the cells
  for a ligand, and/or to increase the in vivo engraftment/homing potential of the cells when
  administered to a subject, to prevent clearance of administered cells or platelets (extend the
  circulatory half-life), or to alter the ability of a platelet to aggregate or to bind to substrates
  (e.g., endothelium, leukocytes, extracellular matrix, etc.).
  [00018]          Also included in the invention are the cells or cell particles produced by the
  methods of the invention.
  [00019]          The invention also features methods of increasing engraftment potential of a
  cell, treating or alleviating a symptom of an immune disorder, tissue injure or cancer by
  administering to a subject, e.g. human a composition comprising the cells of the invention.
  [00020]          The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
  accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and advantages
  of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from the claims.
                                   DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   [00021]         Figure 1. Human mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) express CD44 and react
   with SACK-I mAb, which recognizes a sialic acid-dependent epitope displayed on an N
   glycan substitution exclusively carried on a CD44 scaffold. (a) SACK-1 staining of Western
5  blots of untreated (-) or N-Glycosidase-F-treated (+) imunuoprecipitated CD44 from KGla
   cells (a human cell line that natively expresses HCELL) resolved on a reducing 4-20% SDS
   PAGE gel. (b) (Left panel) Flow cytometry analysis of SACK-1 expression on untreated
   (gray histogram) or sialidase treated (white histogram) KGla cells. (Right panel) SACK-1
   staining of Western blots of untreated (-) or sialidase-treated (+) immunoprecipitated CD44
0  from KGla cells resolved on reducing 4-20% SDS-PAGE gel. SACK-1 reactivity is
   markedly diminished following sialidase treatment, as shown by both flow cytometry and
   Western blot. (c) Flow cytometry analysis of E-selectin ligand activity (E-selectin-Ig
                                                       5

  chimera (E-lg) binding) and of PSGL-1, CD44, SACK-1, HECA452. KM93 (sLe).
  CDI la/CD18 (LFA-1), CD49d/CD29 (VLA-4) and CXCR4 expression on MSC. Dottedline
  is isotype control, black line is specific antibody (or E-Ig chimera); shadedhistogram on
  SACK-1 profile denotes reactivity following sialidase treatment of MSC. Results shown are
  representative of multiple histograms from MSC derived from multiple marrow donors. Note
  that human MSC express CD44 and a CD44 glycoform displaying SACK-I determinants, but
  do not express E-selectin ligands (no staining with E-selectin-Ig chimera); they also lack
  CXCR4 and PSGL-1. and also lack the sLe" determinants recognized by KM93 and
  HECA452 mAbs.
  [00022]         Figure 2. FIVI treatment of human MSC elaborates sialofucosylations on N
  linked glycans of CD44 rendering HCELL expression. (a) Flow cytometry analysis of
  HECA452, KM93 (sLe") and E-Ig reactivity on untreated and FTVI-treated MSC. Dotted
  line is untreated MSC, black line is FrVI-treated MSC. (b) Western blot analysis of
  HECA452 (left panel) and of E-Ig (rightpanel) reactivity of MSC lysates resolved on a
  reducing 4 - 20% SDS-PAGE. Amounts of lysates in each lane are normalized for cell
  number of untreated and FTVI-treated MSC. Staining with E-Ig was performed in the
  presence (+) or absence (-) of Ca2*. Note that FTVI treatment induces HECA452-reactive
  sialofucosylations and E-Ig binding selectively on a -IOOkDa glycoprotein. (c) MSC were
  treated (+) or untreated (-) with FTVI. Thereafter, CD44 was immunoprecipitated (using
  anti-CD44 mAb Hermes-i) from equivalent cell lysates of FTVI-treated and untreated cells,
  and immunoprecipitates were digested with N-glycosidase F(+) or buffer treated (-).
  Immunoprecipitates were then resolved by reducing SDS-PAGH (4-20% gradient) and
  blotted with HECA452, E-Ig or another anti-human CD44 mAb (2C5). As shown, N
  glycosidase F treatment abrogates HECA452 and E-Ig staining of CD44 from FTVI-treated
5 MSC. Results shown are representative of multiple experiments from MSC derived from
  several marrow donors.
   [00023]        Figure 3. FIVI-treated human MSC display markedly enhanced shear
  resistant adhesive interactions with endothelial E-selectin under defined shear stress
  conditions. Untreated, FTVI-treated or sialidase digested FTVI-treated MSC were perfused
D over IL-1p and TNF-aE-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) at 0.5
  dyne/cm 2. 'The accumulation of relevant MSC was determined at shear stress of 0.5. 1, 2, 5.
   10, 20 and 30 dyne/cm 2. In certain instances, EDTA was added to the assay buffer or
                                                    6

  HUVEC were pretreated with a function blocking mAb to E-selectin prior to use in adhesion
  assays. Values are means * SEM (n=4 for each group).
  [000241          Figure 4. FrVI-treated, HCELL-expressing human MSC home efficiently to
  bone marrow in vivo. Montage images of parasagittal region of calvarium assembled from
  representative experiments of NOD/SCID mice. (a) All images shown in this set of panels
  were obtained at I hour after infusion of relevant cells: Left panel, untreated MSC; Middle
  panel, FTVI-treated cells digested with sialidase; Right panel, FTVI-treated cells. (b) Results
  shown are from representative images of one mouse at 1 hour (left panel) and 24 hours
  (middle panel) after infusion of FTVI-treated MSC. Right panel shows high power color
  image of sinusoidal perivascular region 24 hours after injection of FTVI-treated MSC,
  revealing extravascular (parenchymal) infiltrates of infused FrVI-treated MSC: Red
  speckles are DiD-labeled MSC, green color highlights the sinusoidal vessels, visualized by
  injection of fluorescent quantum dots (805 nm).
   [00025]         Figure 5 is a photograph of a Western Blot showing HECA452 reactivity of
  Neural Stem Cells Treated with Fucosyltransferase-VI
   [000261       - Figure 6 is Flow Cytometric Analysis of HECA452 Expression on Neural
   Stem Cells Before and After Fucosyltransferase-VI Treatment.
   [00027]         Figure 7 Flow Cytometric Analysis of HECA452 Expression on Pulmonary
   Stem Cells Before and After Fucosyltransferase-VI Treatment
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [00028]         The invention is based in part on the surprising discovery that
   glycosyltransferases retain enzymatic activity in the absence of divalent metal co-factors (e.g.
   divalent cations such as manganese, magnesium, calcium, zinc, cobalt or nickel) and
5  stabilizers such as glycerol. Previously, divalent metal co-factors had been deemed critical
   for enzymatic activity. The glycosyltransferase compositions according to the invention axe
   particularly useful in modification of glycans on live cells. Previous attempts to modify
   glycan structures on live cells resulted in cell death and phenotypic changes to the cell due
   the toxic effects of the metal co-factors and enzyme stabilizers such as glycerol. For ex vivo
0  custom engineering of live cell surface glycans using glycosyltransferases, it is essential that
   the target cells remain viable and phenotypically conserved following treatment(s). In
                                                     7

  applications utilizing stem cells, it is also important to analyze whether differentiation along
  characteristic lineages is affected by enzymatic treatment.
  1000291          Beyond their recognized effects on cell viability (20), divalent metal co
  factors such as Mn* itself triggers signal transduction (21) and activates integrin
  adhesiveness (e.g., for VLA-4) at levels well below those employed in forced glycosylation
  (e.g., fucosylation) (22, 23). These Mn" effects are confounders to the effect(s) of
  glycosylation on cellular trafficking, as the resulting integrin-mediated firm adhesion would
  be manifest rampantly at endothelial beds and within tissue parenchyma expressing relevant
  ligands.
  1000301          To address these concerns, a new method for high titer fucosyltransferase
  production in a Pichia Pastoris system was developed. Additionally, the fucosyltransferase
  was stabilized in a buffer (e.g., HBSS) specifically chosen to minimize cell toxicity.
  Furthermore, enzyme conditions were refined to utilize physiologic buffers in the coupling
  reaction without input of divalent metal co-factors (e.g., without input of Mn* ions)
   (00031]         These experimental modifications resulted in high efficiency fucosylation of
   CD44 on MSCs with 100% cell viability following enzymatic treatment. Importantly, kinetic
   analysis following forced fucosylation showed that cell viability in vitro was retained
   indefinitely after treatment in all MSC, yet HCELL expression was transient: HCELL levels
   were stable for 24 hours and declined steadily thereafter to baseline (no HCELL) by 96 hours,
   presumably reflecting cell turnover of membrane CD44. Importantly, there was no effect on
   MSC differentiation into various lineages following FTVI treatments, assayed daily for up to
   2 weeks following treatment. Thus, FTVI treatment had no apparent effect on the phenotype
   of MSC, with exception only of HCELL expression (Figure 2c). In contrast, FfVI treatment
   of MSC from commercial available FTVI (e.g., compositions containing Mn* and glycerol;
5  Calbiochem) while enhancing HCELL expression cell viability was compromised following
   these FTVI treatments, with >95% of cells dying within 8 hours of modification. This loss of
   viability was attributed to exposure to stabilizers (e.g., glycerol) in the commercial enzyme
   formulations and to exposure to high levels of Mn* (10 mM) used in the enzymatic reaction.
   Accordingly, the compositions of the invention now make it feasible to ex-vivo engineer
0  glycans on a surface of a viable cell to produce a therapeutic product that is suitable for in
   vivo administration to a human.
   [00032]            Following forced fucosylation, and despite absence of surface CXCR4
   expression, intravenously infused MSC homed robustly to bone marrow, a tissue
                                                     8

  constitutively expressing vascular E-selectin. These findings establish HCELL as a human
  bone marrow homing receptor, provide direct evidence that CXCR4 engagement is not
  obligatory for marrow trafficking, and present new perspectives on the multi-step paradigm.
  [00033]          The finding that enforced HCELL expression confers marrow tropism, and
  that its functional inactivation by sialidase treatment specifically reverses this effect, defines
  this CD44 glycoforn as a "bone marrow homing receptor". As such, the ability to custom
  modify HCELL expression ex vivo may be useful for improving engraftment of HSPCs in
  clinical transplantation, or for use of MSC in cell-based therapy (e.g., for bone diseases).
  More generally, the data suggest that enforcing cellular HCELL expression may promote
  systemic delivery to tissues whose endothelial beds express E-selectin. The high specificity
  and efficiency of this rather subtle fucose modification of gr(2,3)-sialylated-glycoforms of
  CD44 thus provides guiding principles and technologies for strategies to selectively
  upregulate HCELL expression for adoptive cellular therapeutics. The facility with which this
  can be accomplished suggests that rapid translation of this approach to patients should be
* straightforward. Because E-selectin is displayed prominently at sites of inflammation and
  ischemia in affected tissues of primates (29, 30), modulation of HCELL expression could
  lead to directed migration and infiltration of progenitor/stern cells at injured/damaged
  tissue(s) for regenerative therapeutics. Beyond implications in stem cell-based therapies,
  these findings also testing of how upregulated E-selectin ligand activity on other cells, such
  as immunologic effector and regulatory cells, may be harnessed to achieve targeted cell
  migration in a variety of physiologic and pathologic processes, including immune diseases,
  infectious diseases, and cancer therapeutics.
  [000341          COMPOSITIONs
   [000351         The invention provides compositions for e vivo modification of cell.surface
S glycans on a viable cell or cell particle. The compositions include a purified
  glycosyltransferase polypeptide and a physiologically acceptable solution free of divalent
  metal co-factors. The composition is free of stabilizer compounds such as for example,
  glycerol. Glycosylhransferase include for example, fucosyltransferase, galactosyltransferase,
  sialytransferase and N-. acetylglucosaminotransferase. The fucosyltransferase is an alpha 1,3
o fucosyltransferase such as an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase m, alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase IV,
  an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase VI, an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase VII or an alpha 1,3
   fucosyltransferase IX)
                                                    9

  [00036]           Optionally, the composition further includes a sugar donor suitable for the
  specific glycosyltransferase. For example, when the glycoslytransferase is a
  fucosyltransferase, the donor is GDP-fucose. Whereas, when the glycosyltransferase is a
  siayltransferase, the donor is CMP-sialic acid. One skilled in the art would recognize suitable
  sugar donors.
  [00037]           The glycosyltransferases are biologically active. By biologically active is
  meant that the glycosyltransferases are capable of transferring a sugar molecule from a donor
  to acceptor. For example, the glycosyltransferase is capable of transferring 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4,
  0.5, 1.0, 1.5,2.0,2.5,5, 10 or more soles of sugar per minute at pH 6.5 at 37"C.
   [000381          Physiologically acceptable solution is any solution that does not cause cell
  damage, e.g. death. For example, the viability of the cell or cell particle is at least 80%, 85%,
  90%. 95%. 96%. 97%, 98%, 99% or more after treatment with the compositions of the
  invention. Suitable physiologically acceptable solutions include for example, Hank's
  Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS), Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM), a Good's
  buffer (see N.E.Good, G.D.Winget, W.Winter, TN.Conolly, S.lzawa and R.M.M.Singh,
  Biochemistry 5, 467 (1966); N.E. Good, S.lzawa, Methods Enzymol. 24, 62 (1972) such as a
   HEPES buffer, a 2-Morpholinoethanesulfonic acid (MES) buffer, or phosphate buffered
   saline (PBS).
   [00039]          THERAPEUTIC METHODS
            The compositions of the invention, due to their low toxicity on viable cells and high
   enzymatic activity are useful for the ex vivo or in vitro modification of glycan on the surface
   of cells or cell particles. Moreover, the modified cells and particles produced using the
   compositions and methods of the invention are useful in therapeutic settings to achieve
   targeted cell migration in a variety of physiologic and pathologic processes, including bone
   disease, immune diseases, infectious diseases, and cancer therapeutics. The Federal Drug
   Administration imposes (FDA) imposes rigid requirements on all final cell products for
   human administration. Specifically, the FDA requires a minimum cell viability of 70%, and
   any process should consistently exceed this minimum requirement. Unlike previous
   described methods of ex vivo or in vitro modification of glycan on the surface of cells which
a  utilized glycosyltransferases compositions, containing divalent metal co-factors and
   stabilizers such as glycerol (which resulted in significant cell death), the methods described
   herein produce a cell based product that meets or exceeds the FDA requirements.
                                                   10

  [00040]          Mom specifically, the glycan engineering of the cell surface will drive homing
  of cells to any site where E-selectin is expressed. In particular, since CD44 is a ubiquitously
  expressed cell membrane protein and is displayed on stem/progenitor cell populations of both
  "adult" and embryonic types, the capacity to modify glycosylation of this protein by ex vivo
  glycan engineering to create the HCELL (CD44 glycoform) phenotype will drive migration
  of intravascularly injected (adoptively transferred) cells in vivo to marrow or to any
  tissue/organ site where E-selectin is expressed.
  [000411          Glycans are modified on the surface of a cell or cell particle (e.g. platelet or
  liposome) by contacting a population of cells with one or more glycosyltransferase
  compositions according to the invention. The cells are contacted with the glycosyltransferase
  composition under conditions in which the glycosyltransferase has enzymatic activity.
  Glycan modification according to the invention results in cells that have at least 80%, 85%,
  90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more viability. Viability is determined by methods
  known in the art such as trypan blue exclusion. Viability is measured 1 hr , 2 hr, 4 hr, 18 hr,
   12 hr 24 hr or more after treatment. The phenotype of the cells (other than the glycan
  modification) is preserved after treatment. By preserved phenotype it is meant the cell
  maintains its native function and or activity. For example, if the cell is a stem cell it retains
  its pluripotency.
  [00042]          After modification, the cell or cell particle binds E-selectin and or L-selectin.
  In various aspects, the modified cll does not bind P-selectin. Preferably, after modification
  the cells express the sialofucosylated CD44 glycoform known as Hematopoietic Cell E-/L
  selectin Ligand (HCELL). After modification, the cell or cell particle is capable of homing
  in-vivo to the bone marrow and or sites of ischemia or inflammation.
  [00043]          The cell or cell particle is any cell in which cell surface glycan modification is
5 desired. The cell is a stem cell (i.e.. multipotent) or a differentiated cell. Stem cells include
  for example a hematopoietic stem cell, a mesechymal stem cell, a tissue stem/progenitor cell
  (e.g., a neural stem cell, myocyte stem cell or pulmonary stem cell), an umbilical cord stem
  cell, or an embryonic stem cell. Differentiated cells includes hematopoictic-lineage cells
  such as a leukocyte, e.g., a lymphocyte. The lymphocyte can be a B-lymphocyte or T
o lymphocyte, or a subset of T lymphocytes. e.g., a "regulatory" lymphocyte
   (CD4/CD25/FOXP3*).
   [00044]         The cell or cell particle expresses CD44. The CD4 is not sialofucosylated.
   Alternatively the CD44 is alpha (2,3)-sialylated and lacks relevant fucosylations rendering
                                                     S11

  the HCELL phenotype. Enforced glycosylation of CD44 to render HCELL is useful in
  improving engraftment of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) in clinical
  hematopoictic stem cell transplantation, or for use of MSC in cell-based therapy (eg., for
  bone diseases). More generally, the data suggest that enforcing cellular HCELL expression
  may promote systemic delivery of HCELL-bearing cells to tissues whose endothelial beds
  express E-selectin.
  [00045]         In various aspects cell does not express PSGL-1, CD34 or both.
  [000461         The modified cells of the invention because of their increased homing
  capabilities are useful for example in for improving engraftment of HSPCs in clinical
  transplantation, for use of MSC in cell-based therapy (e.g., for bone diseases) or directing
  migration and infiltration of progenitor/stem cells at injured/damaged tissue(s) for
  regenerative therapeutics.
  [00047]         For example, the composition are useful for treating a variety of diseases and
  disorders such as ischemic conditions (e.g., limb ischenia, congestive heart failure, cardiac
  ischemia, kidney ischemia and ESRD, stroke, and ischemia of the eye) , conditions requiring
  organ or tissue regeneration (e.g., regeneration of liver, pancreas, lung, salivary gland, blood
  vessel, bone, skin, cartilage, tendon, ligament, brain, hair, kidney, muscle, cardiac muscle,
  nerve, and limb), inflammatory diseases (e.g., heart disease, diabetes, spinal cord injury,
  rheumatoid arthritis, osteo-arthritis, inflammation due to hip replacement or revision, Crohn's
  disease, and graft versus host disease) auto-immune diseases (e.g., type 1 diabetes, psoriasis,
  systemic lupus. and multiple sclerosis), a degenerative disease, a congenital disease
  hematologic disorders such as anemia, neutropenia, thrombicytosis, myeloproliferative
  disorders or hematologic neoplasms and cancer such as leukemia.
  [00048]         Diseases and disorders are treated or a symptom is alleviated by administering
5 to a subject in need thereof a cell composition produced by the methods of the invention. The
  cell compositions are administered allogeneically or autogeneically.
  [00049]         EXAMPLE 1: GENERAL METHODS
   [00050]        Reagents: The following antibodies were from BD Pharmingen: function
  blocking murine anti-human E-selectin (68-5411; IgGI), rat anti-human CLA (HECA-452;
0 IgM), urine anti-human PSGL- (KPL-1; IgG), purified and FITC-conjugated urine anti
   human L-selectin (DREG-56; IgGi), murine anti-human CXCR4 (12G5; IgG2), FITC
   conjugated marine anti-human CD18 (L130; IgGa), marine anti-human CD29 (MAR4; IgGl),
   PE-conjugated murine anti-human CD49d (9F10; IgGl), mouse IgGjK isotype, mouse IgG2.
                                                  12

  isotype, mouse IgM isotype, rat IgG isotype and rat IgM isotype. Rat anti-human CD44
  (Hermes-1; IgG.) was a gift of Dr. Brenda Sandmaier (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
  Center: Seattle, WA). Recombinant marine E-selectin/human Ig chimera (E-Ig) and marine
  anti-human CD44 (2C5; IgG2 ) were from R&D Systems. Marine anti-human sLe' (KM93;
  IgM) was from Calbiochen. FITC-conjugated marine anti-human CD1 la (25.3; IgGi), PE
  conjugated mouse IgGK isotype and FITC-conjugated mouse IgM isotype were from
  Coulter-Immunotech. FITC-conjugated goat anti-rat 1gM, FITC-conjugated goat anti-mouse
  IgG, FITC-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgM, PE-conjugated strepavidin, alkaline phosphatase
  (AP)-conjugated anti-rat IgM, anti-mouse Ig, and anti-human Ig were from Southern
  Biotechnology Associates. V. Cholerae sialidase was from Roche.
  [00051]          Human cells: Bone marrow (BM) cells were obtained from harvest filters of
  healthy individuals donating bone marrow for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation at the
  Brigham & Women's Hospital/Dana Farber Cancer Institute and Massachusetts General
  Hospital. BM mononuclear cells (BMMNCs) were collected by Ficoll-Paque density
  gradient centrifugation. Human cells were used in accordance with the protocols approved
  by the Human Experimentation and Ethics Committees of Partners Cancer Care Institutions
   [Massachusetts General Hospital. Brigham & Women's Hospital and Dana Farber Cancer
  Institute (Boston. MA)]. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) were obtained
  from the tissue culture core facility at Brigham & Women's Hospital's Pathology Department
   and were maintained in M199 supplemented with 15% FBS. 5 units/i heparin, 50 pg/nl
   endothelial growth factor and 1% penicillin/streptomycin. To stimulate expression of E
   selectin, confluent monolayers of HUVEC were pre-treated with I ng/ml IL-1p (Research
   Diagnostics, Inc; Concord, MA) and 10 ng/ml TNF-a (Research Diagnostics, Inc.) for 4-6 his
   prior to use in the adhesion studies.
5  [00052]          MSC culture: MSC were maintained in a humidified incubator at 37"C in an
   atmosphere of 95% air, 5% CO2 (as per (15) ) or in 3% 02.5% CO2. 92% N 2 (as per (16),
   "MIAMr' cells). For culture of either type of MSC, BMMNCs were plated initially at a
   density of 2 x10 5/cm2 in DMEM-low glucose medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine
   serum (FBS) from selected lots. After several days, non-adherent cells were removed and
0  adherent cells were harvested by treatment with 0.05% trypsin/0.5 mM EDTA/HBSS
                                                              2
   (Invitrogen Corp.) and replated at a density of 50 cells/cm .  Medium was replaced at 48 to
   72 hours and every third or fourth day thereafter. Cells were replated when density
   approached 40% confluence. For all experiments, MSC were used within the first 3
                                                  13

passages, and harvested by treatment with 0.05% trypsin/0.5 mM EDTA/HBSS for less than
3 minutes at 37C.
[00053]         GenerationofSACK-I mAb: HCELL was isolated from KGla cells by
immunoaffinity chromatography of cell lysates using anti-CD44 mAb. BALB/c mice were
injected with pure HCELL in complete Freund's adjuvant (1:1 emulsion), splitting inoculum
50:50 between skin and intraperitoneal sites. Boosting was performed 2 weeks later with
pure HCELL, diluted 1:1 in incomplete Freund's adjuvant and injected intraperitoneally. 10
 14 days later, mice were boosted by IV injection of 5 pg HCELL, then spleens were
harvested 3 days following IV boost. Splenocytes were fused with NSO myeloma cells.
Screening of hybridoma supernatants was initially performed by flow cytometry, against
hematopoietic cell lines KGla (CD44+/HCELL+/HECA452+), HL60 (CD44+/HCELL
/HECA452+), RPMI8402 (CD44+/HCELL-/HECA452-), JURKAT and K562 (both of which
are CD44-/HCELL-/HECA452-). SACK-1 mAb was identified as "CD44-specific,
carbohydrate-specific", by reactivity to KGla but not to CD44- cell lines, in conjunction with
Western blot evidence of mono-specificity for CD44 expressed on KGla cells, sensitive to
digestion with N-glycosidase F (New England Biolabs; N-glycoidase F digestion performed
as previously described (10, 12)).
(000541          Flow cytometry: Aliquots of cells (2 X 105 cells) were washed with PBS/2%
FBS and incubated with primary mAbs or with isotype control mAbs (either unconjugated or
 fluorochrome conjugated). The cells were washed in PBS/2% FBS and, for indirect
 immunofluorescence, incubated with appropriate secondary fluorochrome-conjugated anti
 isotype antibodies. After washing cells, FITC or PE fluorescence intensity was determined
 using a Cytomics FC 500 MPL flow cytorneter (Beckman Coulter Inc., Fullerton, CA).
 [00055]         Recombinant expression andformulation of human D(1,3)-fucosyltransferase
 VI: Pichia pastoris KM 71 (arg4his4aoxl:ARG4) host strain containing the human a(1,3)
 fucosyltransferase VI (FTVI) gene and the N-terninal signal sequence of S.cerevisiae a
 factor were used for stable expression and secretion of highly active a(1,3)-fucosyltransferase
 VI into the medium using online methanol sensing (sterilizable methanol sensor by Raven
 Biotech, Vancouver, Canada) and regulation of methanol addition by Alitea-pumps (Alitea
 A.B., Stockholm, Sweden). After the end of fermentation, the broth was cooled down to
 10*C and the Pichia cells were separated by a Pellicon-microfiltration system with 0.2 pm
 membranes and, subsequently, the final formulation was achieved by buffer exchange with
                                                14

  HBSS using a Pellicon-ultrafiltration system with 10 kD-UF-membranes (regenerated
  cellulose).
  [00056]         Recombinant expression andformulationof human sialytransferase:Pichia
  pastoris KM 71 (arg4his4aoxl:ARG4) host strain containing the human sialytransferase gene
  and the N-terminal signal sequence of S.cerevisiae a-factor were used for stable expression
  and secretion of highly active sialytransferase into the medium using online methanol sensing
  (sterilizable methanol sensor by Raven Biotech, Vancouver, Canada) and regulation of
  methanol addition by Alitea-pumps (Alitea A.B., Stockholm, Sweden). After the end of
                                                   0
  fermentation, the broth was cooled down to 10 C and the Pichia cells were separated by a
  Pellicon-microfiltration system with 0.2 pm membranes and, subsequently, the final
  formulation was achieved by buffer exchange with IBSS using a Pellicon-ultrafiltration
  system with 10 kD-UF-membranes (regenerated cellulose).
   [000571        Recombinant expression andforndation of human glycosytransferase: Pichia
  pastoris KM 71 (arg4his4aoxl:ARG4) host strain containing the human gIycosytransferase
i gene and the N-terminal signal sequence of S.cerevisiae a-factor is used for stable
  expression and secretion of highly active glycosytransferase into the medium using online
   methanol sensing (sterilizable methanol sensor by Raven Biotech, Vancouver, Canada) and
   regulation of methanol addition by Alitea-pumps (Alitea A.B.. Stockholm, Sweden). After
   the end of fermentation, the broth is cooled down to 10*C and the Pichia cells were separated
   by a Pellicon-microfiltration system with 0.2 sun membranes   and, subsequently, the final
   formulation is achieved by buffer exchange with HBSS using a Pellicon-ultrafiltration system
   with 10 kD-UF-membranes (regenerated cellulose).
   [00058]        Recombinant expression andformulation of human N
   acetylglucosaminotransferase: Pichia pastoris KM 71 (arg4his4aoxl:ARG4) host strain
5  containing the human N-acetylglucosaminotransferasegene and the N-terminal signal
   sequence of S.cerevisiae a-factor is used for stable expression and secretion of highly active
   N-acetylglucosaminotransferase into the medium using online methanol sensing (sterilizable
   methanol sensor by Raven Biotech, Vancouver, Canada) and regulation of methanol addition
   by Alitea-pumps (Alitea A.B.. Stockholm, Sweden). After the end of fermentation, the broth
o  is cooled down to 10*C and the Pichia cells are separated by a Pellicon-microfiltration system
   with 0.2 gum membranes and, subsequently, the final formulation is achieved by buffer
                                                   15

exchange with HBSS using a Pellicon-ultrafiltration system with 10 kD-UF-membranes
(regenerated cellulose).
[00059]         FTVI and Sialidasetreatment: MSC either in confluent monolayer or in
suspension were treated with 60 mU/mL FTVI in HBSS containing 20mM HEPES, 0.1%
human serum albumin and 1 mM guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-fucose for 40 min. at 37*C.
After the incubation, MSC were washed with HBSS containing 0.2% BSA and 20mM
HEPES. Untreated and F'VI-treated MSC were then used for experiments. In some
experiments, MSC were first treated with FTVI and then subjected to sialidase treatment (100
mU/mil V. Cholerae Sialidase, I hour, 37"C) ("FrVI-Sialidase MSC"). Efficacy of sialidase
treatment was confirmed in each case by loss of reactivity to KM93 and HECA452 by flow
cytometry.
[00060]         Sialytransferasetreatment: Cells are treated with 60mU/ImL of N
sialyltransferase, 1mM CMP-sialic acid or treated with buffer alone (HBSS, 0.1% human
serum albumin) for 1 hour at 37"C. After the incubation, the cells are washed with HBSS
containing 0.2% BSA and 20mM HEPES.
[000611         Galacrosyltransferase treatment: Cells are treated with 6OmU/mL of
Galacrosyltransferas, ImM UDP-galactose or treated with buffer alone (HBSS, 0.1% human
serum albumin) for 1 hour at 37"C. After the incubation, the cells are washed with HBSS
containing 0.2% BSA and 20mM HEPES.
[000621         N-acetylglucosaminotransferase treatment: Cells are treated with 60nU/mL
of N-acetylglucosaminotransferase. 1mM UDP-N-acetylglucosamine or treated with buffer
alone (HBSS, 0.1% human serum albumin) for 1 hour at 37*C. After the incubation, the cells
are washed with HBSS containing 0.2% BSA and 20mM HEPES.
[00063]          Western blot analysis: Untreated and FTVI treated MSC were lysed using 2%
NP-40 in Buffer A (150mM NaCl, 50mM Tris-HCI, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA. 20 pg/nil PMSF,
0.02% sodium azide; and protease inhibitor cocktail tablet (Roche Molecular Biochemicals)).
Western blots of quantified protein lysates or of immunoprecipitated protein were performed
under reducing conditions as described previously (10).
 [00064]        Immunoprecipitationstudies: Cell lysates of untreated or FTVI treated MSC
 were incubated with immunoprecipitating antibodies or with appropriate isotype controls and
 then incubated with Protein G-agarose. Immunoprecipitates were washed extensively using
 Buffer A containing 2% NP-40, 1% SDS. In some experiments, immunoprecipitates were
 treated with N-glycosidase F (New England Biolabs) as previously described (10, 12)). For
                                                16

  Western blot analysis, all immunoprecipitates were diluted in reducing sample buffer, boiled,
  then subjected to SDS-PAGE, transferred to PVDF membrane, and immunostained with
  HECA-452, E-Ig, SACK-I or 2C5 (10).
  (000651          Parallelplateflow chamber adhesionassay: E-selectin binding capacity of
  untreated and FTVI-treated MSC was evaluated using a parallel plate flow chamber
  (Glycotech; Gaithersburg, MD). MSC (0.5 X 10' cells/ml, suspended in HBSS/lOmM
  HEPES/2mM CaCl2 solution) were drawn over confluent HUVEC monolayers. Initially, the
                                                                                            2
  MSC were allowed to contact the HUVEC monolayer at a shear stress of 0.5 dyne/cm ,
  subsequently the flow rate was adjusted to exert shear stress ranging from 0.5 to 30
  dynes/cm 2 . The number of untreated or FTVI-treated MSC adherent to the HUVEC
  monolayer was quantified in the final 15 sec interval at shear stress of 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 and
  30 dyne/cm 2. Each assay was performed at least 3 times and the values averaged. Control
                                                                                      2
  assays were performed by adding 5 mM EDTA to the assay buffer to chelate Ca required
  for selectin binding or treating HUVEC with function-blocking anti-human E-selectin mAb
  68-5411) at 37 "C for 15 min. prior to use in adhesion assays.
  [000661          In vivo homing; All studies were performed in accordance with NIH
  guidelines for the care and use of animals and under approval of the Institutional Animal
  Care and Use Committees of the Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard Medical
   School. For intravital microscopy, NOD/SCID mice were anesthetized and a small incision
   was made in the scalp to expose the underline dorsal skull surface as previously described
   (5). Experiments were performed on the same day using littermates to analyze each of four
   groups of MSC (n=4 for each group): (1) FrVI treated (as above) MSC; (2) Buffer-treated
   MSC; (3) FrVI-treated MSC digested with sialidase (100 mU/ml V. Cholera Sialidase,
   37*C, 1 hour); and (4) untreated MSC. Cells were stained with the fluorescent lipophilic
5  tracer dye DiD (10 FM, 37*C, 30 min; Molecular Probes) and infused into tail vein of
   NOD/SCID mice. The interactions of MSC with bone marrow microvascular endothelial
   cells within the parasagittal region were monitored and imaged at different time points after
   injection by in vivo confocal microscopy using progressive scanning and optical sectioning
   combined with video-rate imaging as previously described (5). For delineation of bone
0  marrow vasculature, long-circulating fluorescent quantum dots (Qtracker 800. Invitrogen)
   were injected systemically just prior to imaging. Stock solution of Qtracker 800 (2pM) was
   diluted 1:4 (50  s&L mixed in  150 pL PBSlx) and injected into anesthetized mouse via tail
   vein. In vivo confocal microscopy of the mouse skull bone marrow was performed as
                                                  17

  previously described (5). DiD-labeled cells were excited with a solid-state 633 nm laser and
  imaged with a 45 in bandpass filter centered at 695 nm, while quantum dots were excited
  with a solid-state Nd:YAG laser at 532 nin and imaged with a 770 not longpass filter.
  [000671            EXAMPLE 2: HUMAN MFSENCHYMAL STEM CELLS EXPRESS N-LINKED,
  SIALYLATED GLYCOFORMS OF           CD44 AND Do NOT BIND SELECTINS
  1000681            Bone marrow contains two populations of stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells
  and mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). MSC represent a small population of cells present
  within normal marrow, but they can be isolated and expanded in culture. MSC
  characteristically express CD44 and several other adhesion molecules found on
  henatopoietic cells (14). However, it is unknown whether these primitive non-hematopoietic
  cells express any selectin ligands. This paucity of data, and the finding that HCELL is
  expressed among only the earliest hematopoictic cells (CD34+/lin- cells) (10, 11). prompted
  us to examine whether MSC display similar carbohydrate modifications on CD44 that could
  bind selectins.
   [000691           MSC were cultured from human bone marrow as per two established,
  published protocols (15, 16). The MSC derived using both methods were capable of
   multipotential differentiation toward adipocyte, osteocyte and fibroblast differentiation, as
   previously described (15, 16). Regardless of protocol, MSC displayed no significant
  differences in any of the measured cell surface markers or in their response to enzymatic
0  treatments. By flow cytometry (Figure 1c), MSC lacked expression of PSGL-1 or of
   sialofucosylated determinants that could serve as selectin ligand(s): notably, the cells were
  devoid of reactivity to mAb KM93 or HECA452 (each of which identify sialyl Lewis X) and
   to E-Ig by both flow cytometry and Western blot (Figures Ic, 2a and 2b). Additionally, both
   types of MSC lacked LFA-I (CD1l1a/CD18) but expressed another integrin, VLA-4
5  (CD49d/CD29) (Figure 1c). VLA-4 can mediate rolling interactions and firm adherence on
   vascular endothelium (17), but both of these adhesive functions require "inside-out"
   activation usually mediated by the SDF-I/CXCR4 pathway (18). Importantly, analysis of
   immunofluoresence staining on adherent MSC on plates and by flow cytometry showed no
   expression of CXCR4 (Figure ic) and, predictably, MSC did not migrate in response to SDF
o   1 in either static or flow-based assays (not shown).
                                                    18

[00070]         CD44 expression was high among all MSC isolated from numerous donors
(Figure Ic). Conspicuously, SACK-I reactivity was also high on all MSC from all donors
(Figure Ic), indicating that these cells uniformly expressed N-linked, sialylated glycoforms of
CD44. The native absence of selectin ligands but presence of a sialylated CD44 acceptor
made MSC an ideal cell type to examine how HCELL expression affects cellular trafficking
to bone marrow.
[00071]          ExAMPLE 3: Ex VIVO FUCOSYLATION OF MESENCHYMAL STEM CELLS
RESULTS IN HCELL EXPRESSION
[000721          To enforce HCELL expression, MSC were treated ex vivo with an a(1,3)
fucosyltransferase, fucosyltransferase VI (FTVI). In all MSC cultured from all donors, forced
fucosylation resulted in profound staining with mAb HECA452 and KM93, consistent with
expression of sialyl Lewis X epitopes (Figure 2a). Western blot of cell lysates and of
immunoprecipitated CD44 from FrVI-treated MSC revealed that the only glycoprotein
bearing requisite sialofucosylations recognized by HECA452 was CD44 (Figures 2b and 2c).
Moreover, fucosylated MSC bound E-Ig by flow cytometry, and Western blot analysis of cell
lysates showed that the only glycoprotein supporting E-Ig binding was CD44 (Figure 2). The
relevant sialofucosylations of HCELL were displayed on N-glycans, as shown by abrogation
 of E-Ig binding following digestion with N-glycosidase F (Figure 2c).
 [000731         To analyze the E-selectin ligand activity of FfVI-treated MSC under
 physiologic blood flow conditions, parallel plate flow chamber studies were performed using
 human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) stimulated by cytokines to express E
 selectin. As shown in Figure 3. FfVI-treated MSC showed profound E-selectin ligand
 activity, which was completely abrogated in the presence of EDTA and by treatment of MSC
 with sialidase. Consistent with prior studies of cells natively expressing HCELL, robust
 shear-resistant interactions were observed within usual post-capillary venular shear levels (1
                                                         2
 4 dynes/cm2 ), and persisted at upwards of 20 dyne/cm . well outside the range where PSGL-1
 can support E-selectin binding (10). These data indicated that the HCELL created by
 fucosylation of MSC surfaces was functionally similar to that displayed natively on the
 surface of KGla cells and human hematopoietic progenitor cells (10, 11) .
                                                 19

  [000741          EXAMPLE 4: HCELL EXPREsSION CONFERRED ENHANCED HOMING OF
  MSC To BoNE MARROw IN ViVO
  [000751           To determine whether HCELL expression conferred enhanced homing of
  MSC to bone marrow in vivo, we employed dynamic real-time confocal microscopy to
  visualize marrow sinusoidal vessels in the calvarium of live immunodeficient mouse
  (NODISCID) hosts (5). Four groups of cells were injected into tail vein of respective hosts:
  (1) FrVI-treated MSC. (2) FrVI-treated MSC digested with sialidase ('FrVI-Sialidase
  MSC"), (3) buffer-treated MSC, and (4) untreated MSC. In vivo microscopy studies showed
  that FrVI-treated, HCELL-expressing MSC rolled directly on marrow sinusoidal vessels, and
  infiltrated the marrow parenchyma rapidly, within hours of infusion (Figure 4,. In contrast,
  untreated MSC and buffer-treated MSC showed minimal binding interactions with sinusoidal
  endothelium and displayed only modest infiltrates, whereas FTVI-Sialidase MSC typically
  showed even lower levels of endothelial interactions and marrow infiltrates (Figure 4.). The
  latter finding highlights the critical role of HCELL in homing, and also indicates that the
  marrow tropism following FTVI treatment was not a result of fucosylation per se or of
  indirect effects on other adhesion molecules, but is a consequence solely of the induced
  selectin ligand activity, requiring concomitant expression of a(2,3)-sialic acid and a(l.3)
  fucose modifications.     Images obtained with simultaneous staining of MSC and blood
  vessels clearly show that HCELL+ MSC infiltrated the marrow parenchyma (Figure 4). The
  observed marrow infiltrates are striking given that studies herein were performed without
  injury induction, such as by use of radiation or other preparative manipulations of recipient
  animals that markedly augment expression of sinusoidal ligands promoting marrow
   trafficking (27). Collectively, these data provide definitive evidence that HCELL expression
  directly enhances homing of MSC to bone marrow.
   [00076]         In the canonical multi-step paradigm, homing receptor-mediated rolling
   interactions on the endothelium facilitates exposure to chemokines presumed critical for G
   protein-coupled upregulation of integrin adhesiveness with resulting firm adhesion followed
   by transinigration (3). Notably, the MSC used here did not bear CXCR4 or undergo
   chemotaxis to SDF-1, the principal chemokine regulating bone marrow homing (4, 5). Thus,
0  the capacity of these cells to infiltrate marrow shows that CXCR4 engagement is not
   compulsory for marrow trafficking. However, Step 1 interactions are indispensable for cell
   trafficking to any tissue, and, as shown here, augmentation of E-selectin ligand activity
                                                   20

  promotes marrow homing. Viewed more broadly, our findings are consistent with a growing
  body of experimental evidence indicating that engagement of homing receptors may be
  sufficient alone (i.e., absent chemokine signaling) to induce integrin adhesiveneness, with
  accompanying firm adherence and trans-endothelial migration (1). Notably, it has been
  found that ligation of CD44 itself on lymphocytes results in direct, synergistic upregulation of
  VLA-4 adhesiveness, leading to transmigration without chemokine involvement (28).
  Though future studies will be needed to determine whether this axis operates in other cell
  types, the fact that MSC characteristically express VLA-4 (Figure Ic) raises this possibility.
  [000771          EXAMPLE 5: IN Vivo FUCOSYLATION OF NEURAL STEM CELLS
  [000781          Neural stem cells were treated with 6OmU/mL of FT-VI, 1mM GDP-fucose or
                                                                                   0
  treated with buffer alone (HBSS. 0.1% human sean albumin) for 1 hour at 37 C. Cells were
  lysed in a buffer containing 2%NP-40. Proteins were separated on a 4-20% Tris-HCI gradient
  gel in denaturing conditions and transferred to a PVDF membrane. Membrane was
  immunoblotted with HECA452 antibody. Resulting blot shows the expression of HECA452
i reactive epitopes on a number of proteins after forced fucosylation. FI-VI-treated neural
  stem cells were also analyzed for HECA452 reactivity using flow cytometry. FT-VI-Cells
  were incubated with l0ug/mL of HECA452 or l0ug/mL Rat IgM isotype control for 30min at
  4'C and subsequently with 20ug/niL of anti-Rat IgM-FITC for 30min at 4*C. The flow
  cytometric results show an increase in HECA452 epitope expression on the cell surface after
I enforced fucosylation.
          EXAMPLE 6: IN VIVO FUCOSYLATION OF PULMONARY STEM CELLS
          Pulmonary stem cells were treated with 60mU/mL of FT-VI, ImM GDP-fucose or
  treated with buffer alone (HBSS, 0.1% human serum albumin) for 1 hour at 37*C. Cells were
  incubated with l0ug/mL of HECA452 or l0ug/mL Rat IgM isotype control for 30min at 4"C
S and subsequently with 20ug/mL of anti-Rat IgM-FITC for 30min at 4"C. The flow cytometric
  results show an increase in HECA452 epitope expression on the cell surface after forced
   fucosylation.
   References
   1.      R. Sackstein, Curr Opin Hematol 12, 444 (2005).
0  2.      T. Lapidot, A. Dar, 0. Kollet, Blood 106, 1901 (2005).
   3.      T. A. Springer, Cell 76, 301 (1994).
   4.      A. Peled et at. Science 283, 845 (1999).
   5.   .  D. A. Sipkins et al, Nature 435,969 (2005).
                                                  21

  6.       M. J. Polley et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 88,6224 (1991).
  7.       K. M. Schweitzer et al., Am J Pathol 148, 165 (1996).
  8.       P. S. Frenetie, S. Subbarao. I. B. Mazo, U. H. von Andrian, D. D. Wagner, Proc Nad
  Acad Sci U S A 95, 14423 (1998).
                                              1 9 9 6 ).
  9.       Z. Laszik et al., Blood 88, 3010 (
  10.      C. J. Dimitroff. J. Y. Lze, S. Rafii, R. C. Fuhlbrigge, R. Sackstein, J Cell Biol 153,
  1277 (2001).
   11.     C. J. Dimitroff, J. Y. Le, R. C. Fuhlbrigge. R. Sackstein. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
  97, 13841 (2000).
   12.     R. Sackstein. C. J. Dimitmff. Blood 96, 2765 (2000).
   13.     C. J. Dimitroff. J. Y. Lee. K. S. Schor. B. M. Sandmaier, R. Sackstein, JBiol Chem
  276,47623 (2001).
   14.     M. F. Pittenger, B. J. Martin, Circ Res 95, 9 (2004).
   15.     M. F. Pittenger et al., Science 284, 143 (1999).
   16.     G. D'Ippolito et al, J Cell Sci 117,2971 (2004).
   17.     R. Alon e: al., J Cell Biol 128, 1243 (1995).
   18.     V. Grabovsky et al., J Fip Med 192, 495 (2000).
   19.     B. W. Murray, S. Takayama, J. Schultz, C. H. Wong, Biochemistry 35, 11183 (1996).
  20.      N. Schrantz et al., Cell Death Differ 6, 445 (1999).
  21.      K. M. de Bruyn, S. Rangarajan. K. A. Reedquist, C. G. Figdor, J. L. Bos, J Biol Chem
  277,29468 (2002).
   22.     A. Chigaev et al., J Biol Chem 276, 48670 (2001).
   23.     Y. Takamatsu, P. J. Simmons, J. P. Levesque, Cell Adhes Commun 5, 349 (1998).
   24.     M. M. Kobzdej, A. Leppanen, V. Ramachandran, R. D. Cummings, R. P. McEver,
6  Blood 100, 4485 (2002).
   25.     L. Xia, J. M. McDaniel, T. Yago. A. Doeden, R. P. McEver, Blood 104,3091 (2004).
   26.     A. Hidalgo, P. S. Frenette, Blood 105, 567 (2005).
   27.     L B. Mazo. E. J. Quackenbush, J. B. Lowe, U. H. von Andrian, Blood 99, 4182
   (2002).
0  28.     A. Nandi, P. Estess, M. Siegelman, Immunity 20,455 (2004).
   29.     L. Yao et al., Blood 94, 3820 (1999).
   30.     J. Mocco el al.. Circ Res 91,907 (2002).
                                                       22

     [00079]     Thus, in a first aspect, the present invention provides a composition comprising a
     population of isolated inesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) having E-selectin
                                                                                      binding activity,
     wherein the population is produced by a-1,3-fucosylation of the MSCs ex vivo
                                                                                                    in a
     physiologically acceptable solution to form the population, the population having
                                                                                            fucosylated
    glycan structures on the surfaces thereof and a viability of at least 70% at 24 hours
                                                                                            after the a
     1,3-fucosylation of the MSCs. In preferred embodiments of
                                                                     the first aspect of the invention,
    the composition is characterized in that:
    (a) the MSCs are reactive with an E-selectin-immiunoglobulin fusion protein (E-Ig
                                                                                             chimera);
    (b) the MSCs are reactive with monoclonal antibody HECA-452;
   (c) the composition comprises the population of MSCs suspended in a physiologically
         acceptable solution, carrier or vehicle;
   (d) the MSCs bind to E-selectin under static conditions;
   (e) the MSCs bind to E-selectin under fluid shear stress greater than 0.5 dynes/cm 2;
  (f) the population is capable of undergoing tethering or rolling E-selectin-dependent binding
        ineractions on cytokine-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells at a fluid
                                                                                                  shear
        stress of greater than 0.5 dynes/cm2;
  (g) the F-selectin binding activity is transient;
  (h) the population of MSCs has a viability of at least 99% over a period of at least 24 hours;
  (i) the E-selectin binding activity is transient and the population of MSCs has a viability
                                                                                                     of
        at least 70% over the period in which the MSCs possess E-selectin binding activity.
 [00080]       In a second aspect, the present invention provides an ex vivo isolated and expanded
 population of mesenchymal stern cells (MSCs) having E-selectin binding activity, wherein the
 population is produced by a-1,3-fucosylation of the MSCs ex vivo in a physiologically
 acceptable solution to form the population, the population having fucosylated glycan
 structures on the surfaces thereof and a viability of at least 70% at 24 hours after the a-1,3
 fucosylation of the MSCs. In preferred embodiments of the second aspect of the invention, the
population is characterized in that:
(a) the E-selectin binding activity is transient;
(b) the population of MSCs has a viability of at least 99% over a period of at least 24
                                                                                              hours;
(c) the E-selectin binding activity is transient and the population of MSCs has a viability of
       at least 70% over the period in which the MSCs possess E-selectin binding activity.
                                                   23

     [00081]      In a third aspect, the present invention provides an ex vivo cultured and expanded
     population of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) having E-selectin binding activity, wherein
                                                                                                    the
    population is produced by a-1, 3 -fucosylation of the MSCs ex vivo
                                                                                   in a physiological
    acceptable solution to form the population, the population having fucosylated
                                                                                                glycan
    structures on the surfaces thereof and a viability of at least 70% at 24 hours after
                                                                                            the a-1,3
    fucosylation of the MSCs. In preferred embodiments of the third aspect of the
                                                                                        invention, the
   population is characterized in that:
   (a) the E-selectin binding activity is transient;
   (b) the population of MSCs has a viability of at least 99% over a period of at least
                                                                                           24 hours;
   (c) the E-selectin binding activity is transient and the population of MSCs has a viability
                                                                                                     of
         at least 70% over the period in which the MSCs possess E-selectin binding activity;
  (d) the MSCs are CD44* and VLA-44 .
  [00082]       In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a composition for modifying a
  glycan on the surface of a viable cell, the composition comprising a purified
  glycosyltransferase polypeptide, wherein the glycosyltransferase polypeptide is
                                                                                       formulated in
  a buffered solution free of toxic levels of divalent cations and glycerol.
                                                                                         In preferred
  embodiments of the fourth aspect of the invention, the composition is characterized in that:
 (a) the glycosyltransferase polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of a
        fucosyltransferase, a galactosyltransferase, a sialyl transferase, and combinations thereof;
 (b) the glycosyltransferasc polypeptide is a fucosyltransferase;
 (c) the glycosyltransferase polypeptide is an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase, preferably the
       alpha 1,3 fucosyltransfrase is selected from the group consisting of an alpha 1,3
        fucosyltransferase Ill. an alpha 1,3 fucesyltransferase IV, an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase
       VI, an alpha 1,3 Fucosyltransferase VII, an alpha [,3 fucosyltransferase              IX, and
       combinations thereof.
[00083]        In a fifth aspect, the present invention provides a composition for modifying
                                                                                                    a
glycan on the surface of a viable cell, the composition comprising
                                                                                          a purified
glycosyltransferase polypeptide. wherein the glycosyltransferase polypeptide is an alpha
                                                                                                  1,3
fucosyltransferase formulated in a buffered solution free of toxic levels of divalent cations and
glycerol.
                                                    24

     [00084]    In a sixth aspect, the present invention provides an in vitro method for modifying a
     glycan on the surface of an umbilical cord stem cell, the method comprising: contacting a
     population of cells that comprises umbilical cord stem cells with a glycosyltransferase in a
    physiologically acceptable solution free of toxic levels of divalent metal co-factors under
    conditions in which the glycosyltransferase has enzymatic activity and the viability
                                                                                               of the
    umbilical cord stem cell population is at least 90% at 8 hours after contact with
                                                                                                  the
    glycosyltransferase, wherein the glycosyltransferase is an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase.
    [00085]    In a further aspect, the present invention provides an in vitro method of modifying a
   glycan on an umbilical cord stem cell comprising:           providing a population of cells that
   comprises umbilical cord stem cells wherein the cells express a (2,3)-sialylated CD44 and do
   not bind E-selectin and treating the population of cells in vitro with a purified alpha 1,3
   fucosyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution free of toxic levels of divalent
  metal co-factors under conditions in which the alpha 1,3 -fucosyltransferase has enzymatic
  activity and the viability of the umbilical cord stem cell population is at least 90% at 8 hours
  after contact with the alpha 1,3-fucosyltransferase, and a fucose donor to form
                                                                                     a modified cell,
  wherein the modified umbilical cord stem cell binds E-selectin.
  [00086]     In a further aspect, the present invention provides an in vitro method of modifying a
 glycan on an umbilical cord stem cell comprising: providing a population of cells comprising
 umbilical cord stem cells wherein the umbilical cord stem cells express CD44 and do not bind
 E-selectin and treating the population of cells in vitro with:
 a) a purified sialyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution force of toxic levels of
 glycerol and of divalent metal co-factors, and in the presence of a sialic acid donor; and
 b) a purified alpha 1,3-fucosyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution free of toxic
 levels of divalent metal co-factois, and a fucose donor to form a modified cell, wherein [he
modified cell binds E-selectin.
[00087]      A number of embodiments of the invention have been described.
Nevertheless, it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing
from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the
scope of the following claims.
[00088]      A reference herein to a document or other matter which is given as prior art is not
taken as an admission that thai document or prior art was part of common general knowledge
at the priority date of any of the claims
                                                   25

[00089]    With reference to the use of the word(s) "comprise" or "compnses" or
 "comprising" in the Ioregoing description and/or in the following claims, unless the context
rcqunes othenvisc, those wonds are used on the basis and clear understanding that thcy are to
be inteireted inclusively, rather than exclusively, and that cach of those words is to be so
interpreted in construing the foregoing description and/or the fbIlowing claims.
                                               26

  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
           1. A composition comprising a population of isolated mesenchymal stem cells
  (MSCs) having E-selectin binding activity, wherein the population is produced by a-1,3
  ficosylation of the MSCs ex vivo in a physiologically acceptable solution to form the
 population, the population having facosylated glycan structures on the surfaces thereof and a
 viability of at least 70% at 24 hours after the at-1,3-fucosylation of the MSCs.
          2. The composition of claim 1 wherein the MSCs am reactive with an E-selectin
 immunoglobulin fusion protein (E-lg chimera).
          3. The composition of claim I wherein the MSCs are reactive with monoclonal
 antibody HECA-452.
         4. The composition of claim I wherein the composition comprises the population of
 MSCs suspended in a physiologically acceptable solution, carrier or vehicle.
         5. The composition of claim I wherein the MSCs bind to E-selectin under static
conditions.
         6. The composition of claim I wherein the MSCs bind to E-selectin under fluid shear
stress greater than 0.5 dynes/cm2
         7. The composition of claim 1 wherein the population is capable of undergoing
tethering or rolling E-selectin-dependent binding interactions on cytokine-stimulated human
umbilical vein endothelial cells at a fluid shear stress of greater than 05 dynes/ncm.
         8. The composition of claim I wherein the E-selectin binding activity is transient.
         9. The composition of claim I wherein the population of MSCs has a viability of at
least 99% over a period of at least 24 hours.
                                                27

            10. The composition of claim I wherein the E-selectin binding activity is transient
   and the population of MSCs has a viability of at least 70% over the period in which the
   MSCs possess E-selectin binding activity,
           I1. An ex vivo isolated and expanded population of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)
  having E-selectin binding activity, wherein the population is produced by a-1,3-fucosylation
  of the MSCs ex vivo in a physiologically acceptable solution to form the population, the
  population having fucosylated glycan structures on the surfaces thereof and a viability of at
  least 70% at 24 hours after the a-1,3-fiucosylation of the MSCs.
          12. The composition of claim 11 wherein the E-selectin binding activity is transient.
          13. The population of claim II wherein the population of MSCs has a viability of at
 least 99% over a period of at least 24 hours.
          14 The population of claim 11 wherein the E-sclectin binding activity is transient
 and the population of MSCs has a viability of at least 70% over the period in which the
 MSCs possess E-selectin binding activity.
          15. An ex vivo cultured and expanded population of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)
 having E-selectin binding activity, wherein the population is produced by a-1,3-fucosylation
of the MSCs ex vivo in a physiological acceptable solution to form the population, the
population having fucosylated glycan structures on the surfaces thereof and a viability of at
least 700/ at 24 hours after the a-1,3-fucosylation of the MSCs.
         16. The composition of claim 15 wherein the E-selectin binding activity is transient.
         17. The population of claim 15 wherein the population of MSCs has a viability of at
least 99% over a period of at least 24 hours,
                                               28

          18. The population of claim 15 wherein the E-selectin binding activity is transient
  and the population of MSCs has a viability of at least 70% over the period in which the
  MSCs possess E-selectin binding activity.
          19. The population of claim 15 wherein the MSCs are CD44* and VLA-4'.
         20.   A composition for modifying a glycan on the surface of a viable cell, the
 composition comprising:
                 a purified glycosyltransferase polypeptide, wherein the glycosyltransferase
 polypeptide is formulated in a buffered solution free of toxic levels of divalent cations and
 glycerol.
         21. The composition of claim 20, wherein the glycosyltransferase polypeptide is
 selected from the group consisting of a fucosyltransferase, a galactosyltransferase, a sialyl
 transferase, and combinations thereof.
         22. The composition of claim 20, wherein the glycosyltransferase polypeptide is a
 fucosyltransferase.
         23. The composition of claim 20, wherein the glycosyltiansferase polypeptide is an
alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase.
         24. The composition of claim 23, wherein the alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase is selected
from the group consisting of           an alpha   1,3 fucosyltransferase Ill, an alpha      1,3
fucosyltransferase IV, an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase VI, an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase
VII, an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase IX, and combinations thereof.
         25.   A composition for modifying a glycan on the surface of a viable cell, the
composition comprising:
                a purified glycosyltransferase polypeptide, wherein the glycosyltransferase
polypeptide is an alpha 1,3 ficosyltransferase fornnulated in a buffered solution free oftoxic
levels of divalent cations and glycerol.
                                               29

         26. An in vitro method for modifying a glycan on the surface of an umbilical cord
stem cell, the method comprising: contacting a population of cells that comprises umbilical
cord stem cells with a glycosyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution free of
toxic levels of divalent metal co-factors under conditions in which the glycosyltransferase
has enzymatic activity and the viability of the umbilical cord stem cell population is at least
90% at 8 hours after contact with the glycosyltransferase, wherein the glycosyltransferase is
an alpha 1,3 fucosyltransferase.
        27.   An in vitro method of modifying a glycan on an umbilical cord stem cell
comprising:      providing a population of cells that comprises umbilical cord stem cells
wherein the cells express a (2.3)-sialylated CD44 and do not bind E-selectin and treating the
population of cells in vitro with a purified alpha 1,3-fucosyltransferase in a physiologically
acceptable solution free of toxic levels of divalent metal co-factors under conditions in
which the alpha 1,3-fucosyltransferase has enzymatic activity and the viability of the
umbilical cord stem cell population is at least 90% at 8 hours after contact with the alpha
1,3-fucosyltransferase, and a fucose donor to form a modified cell, wherein the modified
umbilical cord stem cell binds E-selectin.
        28. An in vitro method of modifying a glycan on an umbilical cord stem cell
comprising: providing a population of cells comprising umbilical cord stem cells wherein the
umbilical cord stem cells express CD44 and do not bind E-selectin and treating the
population of cells in vitro with:
        a) a purified sialyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution free of toxic
levels of glycerol and of divalent metal co-factors, and in the presence of a sialic acid donor;
and
        b) a purified alpha 1,3-ficosyltransferase in a physiologically acceptable solution
free of toxic levels of divalent metal co-factors, and a ficose donor to form a modified cell,
wherein the modified cell binds E-selectin.
                                               30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
